<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080227_10-K_edgar_data_732717_0000732717-08-000012_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>10196270</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1756824</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2668799</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4547943</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>234</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>48</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000732717-08-000012.hdr.sgml : 20080227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080227112428
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000732717-08-000012
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		52
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20080226
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AT&T INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000732717
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (NO RADIO TELEPHONE) [4813]
		IRS NUMBER:				431301883
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08610
		FILM NUMBER:		08645242

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		175 E HOUSTON, RM 9-P-03
		STREET 2:		ATTN : SHARON HALL
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78205
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2108214105

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		175 E HOUSTON, RM 9-P-03
		STREET 2:		ATTN : SHARON HALL
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78205

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950501

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Pt6Cir7M9JNsLeuNZV8qk6x8Vk9aBhad6iGZEVglrCQRhYoHNrgLJfUNoX+WHDh9
 Ta1uDvS0uWDO6H9ZkY07HA==

 0000732717-08-000012.txt : 20080227

10-K
 1
 ye10k07.htm
 YE FORM 10-K 2007

ye10k07.htm 

FORM
10-K  

UNITED
STATES 

          SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

          Washington,
D.C. 20549 

(Mark
      One) 

For the transition period
from                
to  

Commission
File Number:  1-8610 

AT T INC.  

Incorporated
under the laws of the State of Delaware 

      I.R.S.
Employer Identification Number 43-1301883 

175 E.
Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233 

      Telephone
Number 210-821-4105 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: (See attached Schedule
A) 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None. 

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes [X]   No
[   ] 

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
[   ]   No [X] 

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes [X]   No [   ] 

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [   ] 

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See
definition of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller
reporting company  in Rule 12-b2 of the Exchange Act. 

Large
      accelerated filer [X] 

Accelerated
      filer [   ] 

Non-accelerated
      filer [   ] 

Smaller
      reporting company
[   ] 

(Do not
check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes [   ]   No
[X] 

Based on
the closing price of $41.50 per share on June 29, 2007, the aggregate market
value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates was
$253.4 billion. 

At
January 31, 2008, common shares outstanding were 6,035,725,446. 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE  

(1) 

Portions
      of AT T Inc. s Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
      December 31, 2007 (Parts I and
II). 

(2) 

Portions
      of AT T Inc. s Notice of 2008 Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated
      on or about March 11, 2008 to be filed within the period permitted under
      General Instruction G(3) (Parts III and
IV). 

SCHEDULE A  

Securities Registered Pursuant To
Section 12(b) Of The Act: 

Name of each
      exchange  

Title of each
      class  

on which
      registered  

Common
      Shares (Par Value $1.00 Per Share) 

New
      York Stock Exchange 

6.375%
      Forty-Nine Year AT T Inc. 

New
      York Stock Exchange 

Senior
      Notes, Due February 12, 2056 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART II  

5. 

Market
      for Registrant s Common Equity, Related 

Stockholder
      Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

12 

6. 

Selected
      Financial Data 

12 

7. 

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 

and
      Results of Operations 

12 

7A. 

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

12 

8. 

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data 

12 

9. 

Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting 

and
      Financial Disclosure 

13 

9A. 

Controls
      and Procedures 

13 

9B. 

Other
      Information 

13 

PART III  

10. 

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

14 

11. 

Executive
      Compensation 

14 

12. 

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 

Management
      and Related Stockholder Matters 

15 

13. 

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence 

16 

14. 

Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services 

16 

PART IV  

15. 

Exhibits
      and Financial Statement Schedules 

16 

AT T
      Inc.   

PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

GENERAL  

AT T
Inc. ( AT T,   we  or the  Company ) is a holding company incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive
offices at 175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233 (telephone number
210-821-4105). We maintain an Internet website at www.att.com. (This website
address is for information only and is not intended to be an active link or to
incorporate any website information into this document.)  We make
available, free of charge, on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments
to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). We also make available on that website, and in print, if any
stockholder or other person so requests, our code of business conduct and ethics
entitled  Code of Ethics  applicable to all employees and Directors, our
 Corporate Governance Guidelines,  and the charters for all committees of our
Board of Directors, including the Audit, Human Resources and Corporate
Governance and Nominating. Any changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our
Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, executive officers or Directors
will be posted on that website. 

History  

      AT T,
formerly known as SBC Communications Inc. (SBC), was formed as one of several
regional holding companies created to hold AT T Corp. s (ATTC) local
telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, we were spun-off from ATTC pursuant to
an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an independent publicly traded
telecommunications services provider. At formation, we primarily operated in
five southwestern states. Our subsidiaries merged with Pacific Telesis Group in
1997, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation in 1998 and Ameritech
Corporation in 1999, thereby expanding our wireline operations as the incumbent
local exchange carrier (ILEC) into a total of 13 states. In November 2005, one
of our subsidiaries merged with ATTC, creating one of the world s leading
telecommunications providers. In connection with the merger, we changed the name
of our company from  SBC Communications Inc.  to  AT T Inc.   In
December 2006, one of our subsidiaries merged with BellSouth Corporation
(BellSouth) making us the ILEC in an additional nine states. With the BellSouth
acquisition, we thereby acquired BellSouth s 40 percent economic interest in
AT T Mobility LLC (AT T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC, and
BellSouth s 34 percent economic interest in YELLOWPAGES.COM (YPC), resulting in
100 percent ownership of AT T Mobility and YPC. Our services and products
are marketed under the AT T brand name, including alliances such as AT T
Yahoo! and AT T | DISH Network. In 2007, we rebranded our wireless
operations from Cingular to AT T. 

Scope  

      We rank
among the leading providers of telecommunications services in the United States
and the world. We offer our services and products to consumers in the U.S. and
services and products to businesses and other providers of telecommunications
services worldwide. 

The
services and products that we offer vary by market, and include: wireless
communications, local exchange services, long-distance services, data/broadband
and Internet services, video services, telecommunications equipment, managed
networking, wholesale services and directory advertising and publishing. We
group our operating subsidiaries as follows, corresponding to our operating
segments for financial reporting purposes: 

wireless
      subsidiaries provide both wireless voice and data communications services
      across the U.S. and, through roaming agreements, in a substantial number
      of foreign countries, 

wireline
      subsidiaries provide primarily landline telecommunications and video
      services to residential customers in 22 states and to business and
      governmental customers, throughout the U.S. and
      internationally, 

advertising
        publishing subsidiaries provide services related to directory
      advertising and publishing, 

other
      subsidiaries provide results from Sterling Commerce, Inc. (Sterling), all
      corporate and other operations. 

Our
traditional wireline local exchange subsidiaries operate in 22 states: Alabama,
Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Florida, Georgia,
Kentucky, Louisiana, Kansas, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, North
Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Wisconsin
(22-state area). Our wireline local exchange services offered are provided
through regulated subsidiaries which operate within authorized regions subject
to regulation by each state in which they operate and by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC). Wireless service providers are regulated by the
FCC. Additional information relating to regulation is contained under the
heading  Government Regulation  below and in the 2007 AT T Annual Report to
Stockholders under the heading  Operating Environment and Trends of the
Business,  and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2). 

1 

AT T
      Inc.   

With the
expansion of our company through acquisitions and the resulting ownership
consolidation of AT T Mobility, and with continuing advances in technology,
we plan to offer new services that combine our traditional wireline and wireless
services, thereby making our customers  lives more convenient and productive and
fostering competition and further innovation in the communications and
entertainment industry. In 2008, we plan to focus on the areas discussed
below. 

Wireless  

      AT T
Mobility began operations in October 2000 as a joint venture between us and
BellSouth and, in 2004, acquired AT T Wireless Services, Inc. Upon our
acquisition of BellSouth, AT T Mobility became a wholly-owned
subsidiary. 

Our
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System/ High-Speed Downlink Packet Access
third generation (3G) network technology covers most major metropolitan areas of
the U.S. This technology provides superior speeds for data and video services,
as well as operating efficiencies, using the same spectrum and infrastructure
for voice and data on an IP-based platform. Our wireless networks also rely on
digital transmission technologies known as Global System for Mobile
Communication, General Packet Radio Services and Enhanced Data Rates for GSM
Evolution for data communications. As of December 31, 2007, we served
approximately 70.1 million customers and are the leading provider of mobile
wireless voice and data communications services in the U.S. 

As the
wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth
will become increasingly dependent on our ability to offer innovative services
that will encourage existing customers to upgrade their services and will
attract customers from other providers as well as our ability to minimize
turnover of our existing customer base (customer churn). We intend to accomplish
these goals by continuing to expand our network coverage, improve our network
quality and offer a broad array of products and services, including exclusive
devices such as the Apple iPhone and free mobile-to-mobile calling among our
wireless customers. The effective management of customer churn is critical to
our ability to maximize revenue growth and to maintain and improve our operating
margins. 

Business
Customers  

      As we
continue to integrate the operations of BellSouth and ATTC, we expect to
continue to strengthen the reach and sophistication of our network facilities
and our ability to offer a variety of communications services, both wireless and
wireline, to large businesses and wholesale customers worldwide. We expect to
offer similar services to small- and medium-businesses and to increase the
attractiveness of our services to governmental customers. We also expect to
extend our wholesale business offerings to other service products and systems
integration services. 

Data/Broadband  

      As the
communications industry continues to move toward internet-based technologies
that are capable of blending traditional wireline and wireless services, we plan
to offer services to take advantage of these new and more sophisticated
technologies. In particular, we intend to continue to focus on deploying our
AT T U-verse   sm   high-speed
broadband and TV services and on developing internet protocol-based services
that allow customers to unite their home or business wireline services with
their wireless service. 

U-verse Services   We
are continuing to expand our deployment of our U-verse services. As of December
31, 2007, we have passed approximately 8 million living units (constructed
housing units as well as platted housing lots) and are marketing the services to
almost 50 percent of those units. Our deployment strategy is to enter each
market on a limited basis in order to ensure that all operating and back-office
systems are functioning successfully and then expand within each market as we
continue to monitor these systems. In these market expansions, we expect to
continue to use contracted outside labor in addition to our employees as
installers; our rate of expansion will be slowed if we cannot hire and train an
adequate number of qualified contractors and technicians to keep pace with
customer demand or if we cannot obtain all required local permits in a timely
fashion. We also continue to work with our vendors on improving, in a timely
manner, the requisite hardware and software technology. Our deployment plans
could be delayed if we do not receive required equipment and software on
schedule. See our  Liquidity  discussion for an update on our U-verse capital
spending. 

We
believe that our U-verse TV service is subject to federal oversight as a  video
service  under the Federal Communications Act. However, some cable providers and
municipalities have claimed that certain IP services should be treated as a
traditional cable service and therefore subject to the applicable state and
local cable regulation. If the courts having jurisdiction where we have
significant deployments of our U-verse services were to decide that federal,
state and/or local cable regulation were applicable to our U-verse services, it
could have a material adverse effect on the cost, timing and extent of our
deployment plans. 

2 

AT T
      Inc.   

Additional
information about our U-verse services is included in our  Operating Environment
and Trends of the Business  section under the heading  Expected Growth Areas  on
pages 38 through 39 of the 2007 AT T Annual Report to Stockholders and is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

Voice over Internet
Protocol   VoIP is generally used to describe the transmission
of voice using Internet-Protocol-based technology rather than a traditional wire
and switch-based telephone network. A company using this technology often can
provide voice services at a lower cost because this technology uses bandwidth
more efficiently than a traditional network and because this technology has not
been subject to traditional telephone industry regulation. While the development
of VoIP has resulted in increased competition for our wireline voice services,
it also presents growth opportunities for us to develop new products for our
customers. 

BUSINESS
OPERATIONS  

Operating
Segments  

      Our
segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services
and are managed accordingly. We analyze our various operating segments based on
segment income. Interest expense, interest income and other income (expense)  
net, are managed only on a total company basis and are, accordingly, reflected
only in consolidated results. Therefore, these items are not included in the
calculation of each segment s percentage of our total segment income. We have
four reportable segments:  (1) wireless; (2) wireline;
(3) advertising   publishing; and (4) other. 

Additional
information about our segments, including financial information, is included
under the heading  Segment Results  on pages 29 through 37 and in Note 4 of the
2007 AT T Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

Wireless  

      Wireless
consists of our subsidiary, AT T Mobility, which operates as a wireless
provider to both business and consumer customers. Our wireless segment provided
approximately 35% of 2007 total segment operating revenues and 32% of our 2007
total segment income. At December 31, 2007, we had more than 70 million wireless
subscribers. 

Services and
Products  

      We offer
a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice communications
services in a variety of pricing plans, including postpaid and prepaid service
plans. Our voice offerings are tailored to meet the communications needs of
targeted customer segments, including youth, family, active professionals, small
businesses, government and major national corporate accounts. 

Service    Our voice service is
generally offered on a contract basis for one or two year periods, referred to
as postpaid. Under the terms of these contracts, service is billed and provided
on a monthly basis according to the applicable rate plan chosen. Our wireless
services include basic local wireless communications service, long-distance
service and roaming services. Roaming services enable our subscribers to utilize
other carriers  networks when they are  roaming  outside our network footprint.
We also charge fees to other carriers for providing roaming services to their
customers when their customers utilize our network. Additionally, we offer
prepaid service to meet the demands of distinct consumer segments, such as the
youth market, families and small business customers, who prefer to control usage
or pay in advance. 

Wireless
data revenues continue to be a growing area of our business, representing an
increasing share of our overall subscriber revenue. We are experiencing solid
growth from both consumer and enterprise wireless data services. We continue to
upgrade our network and coordinate with equipment manufacturers and applications
developers in order to further capitalize on the continued growth in the demand
for wireless data services. At December 31, 2007 we were the leading provider of
wireless data in the U.S. wireless industry based on subscribers. 

Equipment    We sell a wide
variety of handsets and personal computer wireless data cards manufactured by
various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We also sell
accessories, such as carrying cases, hands-free devices, batteries, battery
chargers and other items, to consumers, as well as to agents and other
third-party distributors for resale. Like other wireless service providers, we
often provide postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to
initiate or upgrade service. 

Additional
information on our wireless segment is contained in the 2007 AT T Annual
Report to Stockholders in the  Operating Environment Overview  section under the
heading  Expected Growth Areas,   Wireless  beginning on page 38 and is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

3 

AT T
      Inc.   

Wireline  

Wireline
consists of our subsidiaries that operate as both retail and wholesale sellers
of communication services domestically and internationally. Our wireline segment
provided approximately 59% of 2007 segment operating revenues and 55% of our
2007 total segment income. At December 31, 2007, our wireline subsidiaries
served approximately 35 million retail consumer lines, 23 million retail
business lines and 4 million wholesale lines, for a total of approximately 62
million access lines. 

Services and
Products  

      We divide
our wireline services into three product-based categories:  voice,
data and other. 

Voice    Voice includes
traditional local and long-distance service provided to retail customers and
wholesale access to our network and individual network elements provided to
competitors. Voice also includes calling features, fees to maintain wire located
inside customer premises and other miscellaneous voice products. We also have a
number of integrated voice and data services, such as integrated network
connections, that provide customers the ability to integrate access for their
voice and data services, the data component of which is included in the data
category. Additionally, voice revenues do not include any of our VoIP revenues,
which are included in data revenues. 

Long
distance consists of traditional long distance and international long distance
for customers that select us as their primary long-distance carrier. Long
distance also includes services provided by calling card, 1-800 services and
conference calling. These services are used in a wide variety of business
applications, including sales, reservation centers or customer service centers.
We also provide wholesale switched access service to other service
providers. 

Calling
features are enhanced telephone services available to retail customers such as
Caller ID, Call Waiting and voice mail. Customers that subscribe to these
services can have the number and/or name of callers displayed on their phone, be
signaled that additional calls are incoming, and send and receive voice
messages. These services are not regulated by the FCC and are generally more
profitable than basic local phone service. 

Data -  Data includes
traditional products, such as switched and dedicated transport, Internet access
and network integration, and data equipment sales. Additionally, data products
include high-speed connections such as private lines, packet, dedicated Internet
and enterprise networking services, as well as products such as DSL/broadband,
dial-up Internet access and WiFi (local radio frequency commonly known as
wireless fidelity). We also provide businesses voice applications over IP-based
networks (i.e., Enhanced Virtual Private Networks or  EVPN ). Over the past
several years, we have built out our new multi protocol label
switching/asynchronous transfer mode, or MPLS/ATM network, to supplement, and
eventually replace, our other extensive global data networks. These products
allow us to provide highly complex global data networks. 

Private
line uses high-capacity digital circuits to transmit from point-to-point in
multiple configurations and allows customers to create internal data networks
and to access external data networks. 

Switched
Transport services transmit data using switching equipment to transfer the data
between multiple lines before reaching its destination. Dedicated Transport
services use a single direct line to transmit data between destinations.
Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN), Dedicated Frame Relay, broadband
digital subscriber lines (DSL), Digital Services and Synchronous Optical Network
(SONET) are examples of Dedicated Transport services. ISDN transmits voice,
video and data over a single line in support of a wide range of applications,
including Internet access. Frame Relay is a routing technology that breaks a
data signal into individual pieces of data to travel at high speeds and then
recombines the data prior to arriving at its destination. DSL is a digital modem
technology that converts existing twisted-pair telephone lines into access paths
for multimedia and high-speed data communications to the Internet or private
networks. DSL allows customers to simultaneously make a phone call and access
information via the Internet or an office local area network. Digital Services
use dedicated digital circuits to transmit digital data at various high rates of
speed. SONET provides customer access to our backbone network at various high
speeds. 

Network
integration services include installation of business data systems, local area
networking and other data networking offerings. Internet access services include
a wide range of products for residences and businesses, varying by market.
Internet services offered include basic dial-up access service, dedicated
access, web hosting, e-mail and high-speed access services. 

Packet
services consist of data networks using packet switching and transmission
technologies, including Frame Relay, asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) and IP
connectivity services. Packet services enable customers to transmit large
volumes of data economically and securely and are used for local area network
interconnection, remote site, point of sale and branch office communications.
Frame relay, including IP-enabled frame relay and ATM Services are widely
deployed as private data networks. High speed packet services, including
IP-enabled frame relay service, are used extensively by enterprise (large
business) customers. 

4 

AT T
      Inc.   

Dedicated
Internet services are designed to meet the needs of all types of commercial and
governmental enterprises, including small and medium sized businesses. Our
managed Internet services provide customers with dedicated high speed access to
the Internet managed by us. 

Enterprise
networking services provide comprehensive support from network design,
implementation and installation to ongoing network operations and management for
networks of varying scales, including local area networks, wide area networks,
and virtual private networks. These services include applications such as
e-mail, order entry systems, employee directories, human resource transactions
and other database applications. 

We also
provide local, interstate and international wholesale networking capacity to
other service providers. We offer a combination of high volume transmission
capacity and conventional dedicated line services on a regional, national and
international basis to wireless carriers, interchange carriers, Internet service
providers (ISPs) and facility-based and switchless resellers. Our wholesale
customers are primarily large ISPs, wireless carriers, competitive local
exchange carriers, regional phone companies, interexchange carriers, cable
companies and systems integrators. We also have sold dedicated network capacity
through indefeasible rights-of-use agreements under which capacity is furnished
for contract terms as long as 25 years. 

Other -  Other includes managed
web hosting, application management, security service, integration services,
customer premises equipment, outsourcing, directory and operator assistance
services, government-related services, our  U-verse and satellite
video services. 

Our
managed web-hosting services for businesses provide network, server and security
infrastructure as well as built-in data storage and include application
performance management, database management, hardware and operating system
management. Our hosting services also provide customers with secure access to
detailed reporting information about their infrastructure and applications.
Security services include business continuity and disaster recovery services as
well as premise and network based security products. 

Customer
premises equipment and other equipment sales range from single-line and cordless
telephones to sophisticated digital PBX systems. PBX is a private telephone
switching system, typically used by businesses and usually located on a
customer s premises, which provides intra-premise telephone services as well as
access to our network. 

Advertising  
Publishing  

      Advertising
  Publishing includes our directory operations, which publish Yellow and
White Pages directories and sell directory and Internet-based advertising. The
advertising   publishing segment provided approximately 5% of total segment
operating revenues and 9% of our 2007 total segment income. Our directory
subsidiaries operate primarily in our 22-state area. 

Other  

      Our other
segment includes operations from Sterling, our business integration software and
services subsidiary, payphones, corporate and other operations. The other
segment provided approximately 1% of total segment operating revenues and 4% of
our 2007 total segment income. 

Sterling
provides  multi-enterprise collaboration  services to businesses in various
industries, including retail, financial services, manufacturing, healthcare and
telecom. In recent years, Sterling has completed a number of acquisitions in
order to provide end-to-end order fulfillment for customers. 

5 

AT T
      Inc.   

MAJOR CLASSES OF
SERVICE  

The
following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated total reported
operating revenues by any class of service that accounted for 10% or more of our
consolidated total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal
years. 

Prior to
our December 2006 acquisition of BellSouth, our wireless segment revenues were
reported in equity in net income of affiliates in our consolidated financial
statements due to our equity accounting for the joint venture. We accounted for
our 60 percent economic interest in AT T Mobility under the equity method of
accounting since we shared control equally with our 40 percent economic partner
in the joint venture. We held equal voting rights and representation on the
board of directors that controlled AT T Mobility. Accordingly, our
consolidated results included wireless results in the  Equity in Net Income of
Affiliates  line. We did not report wireless revenues in our consolidated
financial statements. However, when analyzing our segment results, we evaluated
wireless results on a stand-alone basis. The table below shows the effect on our
other classes of services (shown in the above table) if we include 100% of
AT T Mobility s revenues added to our total segment operating
revenues. 

6 

AT T
      Inc.   

GOVERNMENT
REGULATION  

Wireless
communications providers must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications
services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and
must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as
adopted by the FCC. Additionally, while wireless communications providers 
prices and service offerings are generally not subject to regulation, the
federal government and an increasing number of states are considering new
regulations and legislation relating to various aspects of wireless
services. 

Our
wireline subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state commissions which have
the power to regulate intrastate rates and services, including local,
long-distance and network access services. These subsidiaries are also subject
to the jurisdiction of the FCC with respect to interstate and international
rates and services, including interstate access charges. Access charges are
designed to compensate our wireline subsidiaries for the use of their networks
by other carriers. 

Our
subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are subject to the jurisdiction of
national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is
provided. Regulation is generally limited to operational licensing authority for
the provision of enterprise services. 

Additional
information relating to regulation of our subsidiaries is contained in the 2007
AT T Annual Report to Stockholders under the heading  Operating Environment
Overview  beginning on page 38, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant
to General Instruction G(2). 

IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF
LICENSES  

Certain
of our subsidiaries own or have licenses to various patents, copyrights,
trademarks and other intellectual property necessary to conduct business. We
actively pursue patents, trademarks and service marks to protect our
intellectual property within the U.S. and abroad. We maintain a global portfolio
of more than 5,000 trademark and service mark registrations. We have also
entered into agreements that permit other companies, in exchange for fees and
subject to appropriate safeguards and restrictions, to utilize certain of our
trademarks and service marks. We periodically receive offers from third parties
to obtain licenses for patent and other intellectual rights in exchange for
royalties or other payments. We also receive notices asserting that our products
or services infringe on their patents and other intellectual property rights.
These claims, whether against us directly or against third-party suppliers of
products or services that we, in turn, sell to our customers, such as wireless
handsets, could require us to pay damages, royalties, stop offering the relevant
products or services and/or cease other activities. While the outcome of any
litigation is uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these
infringement claims or the expiration or non-renewal of any of our intellectual
property rights would have a material adverse affect on our results of
operations. 

MAJOR CUSTOMER  

No
customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 or
2005. 

COMPETITION  

Information
relating to competition in each of our operating segments is contained in the
2007 AT T Annual Report to Stockholders under the heading  Competition 
beginning on page 40, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(2). 

7 

AT T
      Inc.   

RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT  

The
majority of our research activities are related to our wireline segment,
performed at our subsidiary AT T Labs. AT T Labs  scientists and
engineers conduct research in a variety of areas, including IP; advanced network
design and architecture; network operations support systems; data mining
technologies and advanced speech technologies. The majority of the development
activities are performed by AT T Services. The developers within AT T
Services work with our business units and AT T Labs to create new services
and invent tools and systems to manage secure and reliable networks for us and
our customers. We also have a research agreement with Telcordia Technologies,
formerly Bell Communications Research, Inc. Research and development expenses
were $985 in 2007, $577 in 2006 and $315 million in 2005. 

EMPLOYEES  

As of
January 31, 2008, we employed approximately 310,000 persons. Approximately 60
percent of our employees are represented by the Communications Workers of
America (CWA), the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) or
other unions. 

8 

AT T
      Inc.   

ITEM 1A. RISK
FACTORS  

Information
required by this Item is included in the 2007 AT T Annual Report to
Stockholders under the heading  Risk Factors  on page 50 through page 51 which
is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

The
following factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those
expressed in the forward-looking statements: 

Adverse
      economic changes in the markets served by us or in countries in which we
      have significant investments. 

Changes
      in available technology and the effects of such changes including product
      substitutions and deployment costs. 

Increases
      in our benefit plans  costs including increases due to adverse changes in
      the U.S. and foreign securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed
      investment returns and discount rates, and adverse medical cost
      trends. 

The
      final outcome of Federal Communications Commission proceedings and
      reopenings of such proceedings and judicial review, if any, of such
      proceedings, including issues relating to access charges, broadband
      deployment, unbundled loop and transport elements and wireless
      services. 

The
      final outcome of regulatory proceedings in the states in which we operate
      and reopenings of such proceedings, and judicial review, if any, of such
      proceedings, including proceedings relating to interconnection terms,
      access charges, universal service, unbundled network elements and resale
      and wholesale rates, broadband deployment including our U-verse services,
      performance measurement plans, service standards and traffic
      compensation. 

Enactment
      of additional state, federal and/or foreign regulatory and tax laws and
      regulations pertaining to our subsidiaries and foreign
      investments. 

Our
      ability to absorb revenue losses caused by increasing competition,
      including offerings using alternative technologies (e.g., cable, wireless
      and VoIP), and our ability to maintain capital
    expenditures. 

The
      extent of competition and the resulting pressure on access line totals and
      wireline and wireless operating
margins. 

Our
      ability to develop attractive and profitable product/service offerings to
      offset increasing competition in our wireless and wireline
      markets. 

The
      ability of our competitors to offer product/service offerings at lower
      prices due to lower cost structures and regulatory and legislative actions
      adverse to us, including state regulatory proceedings relating to
      unbundled network elements and nonregulation of comparable alternative
      technologies (e.g., VoIP). 

The
      timing, extent and cost of deployment of our U-verse services (our
      Lightspeed initiative); the development of attractive and profitable
      service offerings; the extent to which regulatory, franchise fees and
      build-out requirements apply to this initiative; and the availability,
      cost and/or reliability of the various technologies and/or content
      required to provide such offerings. 

The
      outcome of pending or threatened litigation including patent claims by or
      against third parties. 

The
      impact on our networks and business of major equipment failures, severe
      weather conditions, natural disasters or terrorist
  attacks. 

The
      issuance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other accounting
      oversight bodies of new accounting standards or changes to existing
      standards. 

The
      issuance by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state tax authorities of
      new tax regulations or changes to existing standards and actions by
      federal, state or local tax agencies and judicial authorities with respect
      to applying applicable tax laws and regulations; and the resolution of
      disputes with any taxing
jurisdictions. 

Our
      ability to adequately fund our wireless operations, including access to
      additional spectrum; network upgrades and technological
      advancements. 

The
      impact of our acquisition of BellSouth, including the risk that the
      businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost
      savings and any other synergies from the acquisition may take longer to
      realize than expected or may not be fully realized; and disruption from
      the acquisition may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with
      customers, employees or suppliers. 

Changes
      in our corporate strategies, such as changing network requirements or
      acquisitions and dispositions, to respond to competition and regulatory,
      legislative and technological
developments. 

Readers
are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not
enumerated here, also could materially affect our future earnings. 

9 

AT T
      Inc.   

ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES  

Our
properties do not lend themselves to description by character and location of
principal units. At December 31, 2007, approximately 84% of our property, plant
and equipment was owned by our wireline subsidiaries and approximately 15% was
owned by our wireless subsidiaries. Network access lines represented
approximately 33% of our telephone plant; central office equipment represented
34%; land and buildings represented 12%; other equipment, comprised principally
of furniture and office equipment and vehicles and other work equipment,
represented 16%; and other miscellaneous property represented 5%. 

Substantially
all of the installations of central office equipment are located in buildings
and on land we own. Many garages, administrative and business offices, and
telephone centers and retail stores are in leased quarters. 

ITEM 3. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS  

We are a
party to numerous lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and other matters arising in
the ordinary course of business. Additional information regarding litigation is
included in the 2007 AT T Annual Report to Stockholders under the headings
 Antitrust Litigation,   Retiree Phone Concession Litigation,   NSA Litigation 
and    Prepaid
Calling Card Patent Litigation  on pages 43 through 44, which is incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). As of the date of this
report, we do not believe any pending legal proceedings to which we or our
subsidiaries are subject are required to be disclosed as material legal
proceedings pursuant to this item. 

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

No matter
was submitted to a vote of stockholders in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
covered by this report. 

10 

AT T
      Inc.   

All of
the above executive officers have held high-level managerial positions with
AT T or its subsidiaries for more than the past five years. Executive
officers are not appointed to a fixed term of office. 

11 

AT T
      Inc.   

PART II  

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S
COMMON EQUITY, RELATED  

         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES  

Our
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The number of
stockholders of record as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was 1,663,676 and
1,766,266. The number of stockholders of record as of February 20, 2008 was
1,649,713. We declared dividends, on a quarterly basis, totaling $1.47 per share
in 2007 and $1.35 per share in 2006. 

During
2007, non-employee directors acquired shares of common stock pursuant to the
Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan. Under the plan, a director may
make an annual election to receive all or part of his or her annual retainer or
fees in the form of shares or deferred stock units (DSUs) that are convertible
into cash or shares. Each director also receives an annual grant of DSUs. The
plan provides that DSUs (and dividends earned thereon) acquired during 2007 and
thereafter would be convertible in the form of cash only. During 2007, an
aggregate of 18,849 shares and DSUs (from pre-2007 accruals) were acquired by
non-employee directors at prices ranging from $36.80 to $42.31, in each case the
fair market value of the shares on the date of acquisition. The issuances of
shares and DSUs were exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act. 

Other
information required by this Item is included in the 2007 AT T Annual Report
to Stockholders under the headings  Quarterly Financial Information  on page 79,
 Selected Financial and Operating Data  on page 26,  Issuer Equity Repurchases 
on page 49, and  Stock Trading Information  on the back cover, which are
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA  

Information
required by this Item is included in the 2007 AT T Annual Report to
Stockholders under the heading  Selected Financial and Operating Data  on page
26, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATION  
  Information
required by this Item is included in the 2007 AT T Annual Report to
Stockholders on pages 27 through 52, which is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Information
required by this Item is included in the 2007 AT T Annual Report to
Stockholders under the heading  Market Risk  on page 48 through page 49, which
is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

Information
required by this Item is included in the 2007 AT T Annual Report to
Stockholders on pages 53 through 79, which is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

12 

AT T
      Inc.   

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS
WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING  

AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

During
our two most recent fiscal years, there has been no change in the independent
accountant engaged as the principal accountant to audit our financial statements
and the independent accountant has not expressed reliance on other independent
accountants in its reports during such time period. 

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES  

Disclosure Controls and
Procedures  

The
registrant maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the registrant is recorded,
processed, summarized, accumulated and communicated to its management, including
its principal executive and principal financial officers, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure, and reported within the time periods
specified in the SEC s rules and forms. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures as
of December 31, 2007. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of December 31, 2007. 

Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting  

(a)  Management s
Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

      The
management of AT T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. AT T s internal control system
was designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the integrity and reliability
of the published financial statements. AT T management assessed the
effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
 Internal Control   Integrated
Framework . Based on its assessment, AT T management believes that, as
of December 31, 2007, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is
effective based on those criteria. 

(b)  Attestation
Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm 

      The
registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included
in the annual report containing the disclosure required by this Item, Ernst
  Young LLP, has issued an attestation report on the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. The attestation report issued by Ernst  
Young LLP is included in the 2007 AT T Annual Report to Stockholders on page
82, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

ITEM 9B.
 OTHER INFORMATION  

There is
no information that was required to be disclosed in a report on Form 8-K during
the fourth quarter of 2007 but was not reported. 

13 

AT T
      Inc.   

PART III  

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

Information
regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is furnished
in a separate disclosure at the end of Part I of this report since the
registrant did not furnish such information in its definitive proxy statement
prepared in accordance with Schedule 14A. Information regarding directors
required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant s definitive proxy
statement, dated on or about March 11, 2008 (Proxy Statement) under the heading
 Election of Directors.  

Information
required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant s Proxy Statement under
the heading  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance.  

The
registrant has a separately-designated standing audit committee established in
accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Exchange Act of 1934. The members of
the committee are Messrs. Aldinger, Amelio, Kelly and Madonna. The additional
information required by Item 407(d)(5) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant s Proxy
Statement under the heading  Audit Committee.  

The
registrant has adopted a code of ethics entitled  Code of Ethics  that applies
to the registrant s principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer, or controller or persons performing similar
functions. The additional information required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K is
provided in this report under the heading  General  under Part I, Item 1.
Business. 

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION  

Information
required by Item 402(k) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant s Proxy Statement under
the heading  Compensation of Directors.   Information regarding
officers is included in the registrant s Proxy Statement on the pages beginning
with the heading  Compensation Discussion and Analysis  and ending with, and
including, the last page under the heading  Potential Payments upon Termination
or Change in Control  which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(3). Information required by Item 407(e)(5) of Regulation
S-K is included in the registrant s Proxy Statement under the heading
 Compensation Committee Report  and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant
to General Instruction G(3) and shall be deemed furnished in this annual report
on Form 10-K and will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing
under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. 

Information
required by Item 407(e)(5) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant s  Proxy
Statement under the heading  Compensation Committee Report  and will be deemed
furnished in this Form 10-K and will not be deemed incorporated by reference
into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.  

14 

AT T
      Inc.   

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND     MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS  

Information
required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant s Proxy
Statement under the heading  Common   Stock Ownership,  which
is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(3). 

Information
required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is provided below: 

Equity Compensation Plan
Information  
  The
following table provides information as of December 31, 2007, concerning shares
of AT T common stock authorized for issuance under AT T s existing
equity compensation plans. 

Equity Compensation Plan Information
(1)  

(1) 

In
      addition to the shares shown in the table, certain stock options issued by
      companies acquired by AT T were converted into options to acquire
      AT T stock. As of December 31, 2007, there were 105,527,485 shares of
      AT T common stock subject to the converted options, having a
      weighted-average exercise price of $40.90. No further grants may be issued
      under the assumed plans. 

(3) 

Plans
      that have not been approved by stockholders include the 1995 Management
      Stock Option Plan ( 1995 Plan ) and the Non-Employee Director Stock and
      Deferral Plan ( Non-Employee Director Plan ). The 1995 Plan provides for
      grants of stock options to management employees (10-year terms) subject to
      vesting requirements and shortened exercise terms upon termination of
      employment. No further options may be issued under this plan. Under the
      Non-Employee Director Plan, participants may elect to receive stock units
      in lieu of retainers and fees. In addition, each non-employee Director
      receives an annual award of stock units equal in value to one and one-half
      times the annual retainer. Directors who became board members after
      November 21, 1997, but before September 24, 2004, also receive up to 10
      annual grants of stock units equal to $13,000 each. The stock units are
      paid out in the form of AT T stock only after the termination of their
      service as a Director. Under the plan, 175,363 shares remain available for
      future issuance and are included in the
table. 

Also
included in column (c) are up to 4,382,805 shares that may be purchased under
the Stock Savings Plan with reinvested dividend equivalents on deferred share
units purchased by mid-level and above managers and limited company partial
matching contributions. No new contributions may be made to the plan. The shares
purchased are not delivered to the employee until after termination of
employment, subject to certain accelerated delivery provisions. In addition,
participants receive 2 options for each share purchased with employee payroll
deductions. The options have a 10-year term and a strike price equal to the fair
market value of the stock on the date of grant. The Stock Savings Plan was last
approved by stockholders in 1994. The plan was amended by the Board of Directors
in 2000 to increase the number of shares available for purchase under the plan
(including shares from the company match and reinvested dividend equivalents)
and shares subject to options. Stockholder approval was not required for the
amendment. To the extent applicable, the amount shown for non-approved plans in
column (a) includes these additional shares. Shares subject to outstanding
options issued under the plan prior to amendment are included under approved
plans. 

15 

AT T
      Inc.   

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  

Information
required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant s Proxy
Statement under the heading  Related Party Transactions,  which is incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3). Information required
by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant s Proxy Statement
under the heading  Independence of Directors,  which is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3). 

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES
AND SERVICES  

Information
required by this Item is included in the registrant s Proxy Statement under the
heading  Principal Accountant Fees and Services,  which is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3). 

Part IV  

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS and FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

(a)
Documents filed as a part of the report: 

Page  

(1) 

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

* 

Financial
      Statements covered by Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm: 

Consolidated
      Statements of Income 

* 

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets 

* 

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows 

* 

Consolidated
      Statements of Stockholders  Equity 

* 

Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements 

* 

* 

Incorporated
      herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the registrant s annual
      report to stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. (See
      Part II.) 

Page  

(2) 

Financial
      Statement Schedules: 

II
      - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  

22 

Financial
      statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted
      because the required information is contained in the financial statements
      and notes thereto, or because such schedules are not required or
      applicable. 

Exhibits
      identified in parentheses below, on file with the SEC, are incorporated
      herein by reference as exhibits hereto. Unless otherwise indicated, all
      exhibits so incorporated are from File No.
  1-8610. 

Exhibit 

          Number                            

4-a 

Certificate
      of Designations for Perpetual Cumulative Preferred Stock of SBC
      Communications Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of the State of
      Delaware on November 18, 2005. (Contained in Restated Certificate of
      Incorporation filed as Exhibit
3-a.) 

16 

AT T
      Inc.   

4-b 

No
      instrument which defines the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
      registrant and all of its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith
      pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601b)(4)(iii)(A), except for the
      instruments referred to in 4-c, 4-d, 4-e,  4-f, and 4-g below.
      Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby aggress to furnish a
      copy of any such instrument not filed herewith to the SEC upon
      request. 

4-c 

Guaranty
      of certain obligations of Pacific Bell Telephone Co. and Southwestern Bell
      Telephone Co. (filed herewith and previously filed as Exhibit 4-d to Form
      10-K for 1999.) 

4-d 

Guaranty
      of certain obligations of Ameritech Capital Funding Corp., Illinois Bell
      Telephone Co., Indiana Bell Telephone Co. Inc., Michigan Bell Telephone
      Co., The Ohio Bell Telephone Co., Pacific Bell Telephone Co., Southern New
      England Telecommunications Corp., The Southern New England Telephone Co.,
      Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., Wisconsin Bell, Inc.   (Exhibit 4-c to Form
      10-Q for September 30, 2005.) 

10-h 

AT T
      Inc. Health Plan, formerly the Executive Health Plan, amended and restated
      January 1, 2008. 

10-j 

Form
      of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986, between SBC (now AT T
      Inc.) and its directors and officers. (filed herewith and previously filed
      as Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18,
      1987.) 

10-k 

Administrative
      Plan.  

10-p 

Pacific
      Telesis Group Deferred Compensation Plan for Nonemployee Directors. (filed
      herewith and previously filed as Exhibit 10gg to Form 10-K for 1996 of
      Pacific Telesis Group (File No.
1-8609).) 

17 

AT T
      Inc.   

10-q 

Pacific
      Telesis Group Outside Directors  Deferred Stock Unit Plan. (filed herewith
      and previously filed as Exhibit 10oo to Form 10-K for 1995 of Pacific
      Telesis Group (File No. 1-8609).) 

10-s 

Transition
      Agreement by and between BellSouth Corporation and Rafael de la Vega,
      dated December 29, 2003. 

10-u 

Employment
      Agreement between SBC and Edward E. Whitacre Jr. (filed herewith and
      previously filed as Exhibit 10-y to Form 10-K for
  2001.) 

10-x 

Investment
      and Reorganization Agreement dated October 25, 2004, by and among
      BellSouth Corporation, SBC Communications Inc., Cingular Wireless
      Corporation, Cingular Wireless LLC, Links I Corporation, Cingular Wireless
      II, Inc., BLS Cingular Holdings, LLC, SBC Alloy Holdings, Inc., BellSouth
      Enterprises, Inc., BellSouth Mobile Systems, Inc., BellSouth Mobile Data,
      Inc. and SBC Long Distance, Inc. (Exhibit 99.01 to Cingular Wireless
      LLC's Form 8-K dated October 25,
  2004.) 

18 

AT T
      Inc.   

10-kk 

BellSouth
      Corporation Executive Incentive Award Deferral Plan, as amended and
      restated effective January 1, 2008. 

10-rr 

Cingular
      Wireless Long Term Compensation Plan, amended and restated effective
      November 1, 2007. 

10-tt 

Non-Employee
      Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Terms and Conditions (for options
      granted under the BellSouth Corporation Stock and Incentive Compensation
      Plan). (Exhibit 10-qq to Form 8-K dated September 30, 2004 of BellSouth
      Corporation (File No. 1-8607).) 

19 

AT T
      Inc.   

10-zz 

BellSouth
      Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and
      restated effective January 1, 2005. 

10-zz(i) 

Amendment
      to the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
      effective December 31, 2005. 

10-aaa 

BellSouth
      Supplemental Life Insurance Plan. 

10-bbb 

BellSouth
      Compensation Deferral Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1,
      2005. 

10-ccc 

Cingular
      Wireless BLS Executive Transition Benefit
Plan. 

10-ddd 

Cingular
      Wireless  SBC Executive Transition Benefit
  Plan. 

10-eee 

BellSouth
      Nonqualified Deferred Income Plan, as amended and restated effective
      January 1, 1999. 

10-eee(i) 

First
      Amendment to the BellSouth Nonqualified Deferred Income Plan, effective
      January 1, 2006. 

10-hhh 

AT T
      Corp. Senior Management Universal Life Insurance Program, effective
      October 1, 1999. 

10-hhh(i) 

Amendment
      to AT T Corp. Senior Management Universal Life Insurance Program,
      dated July 28, 2003. 

10-iii 

AT T
      Corp. Non-Qualified Pension Plan, as amended and restated effective
      January 1, 1995. 

10-jjj 

AT T
      Corp. Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, as amended and restated
      effective October 1, 1996. 

10-kkk 

BellSouth
      Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan, as amended and restated
      effective  November 24,
2003. 

10-lll 

Pacific
      Telesis Group Supplemental Cash Balance Plan,, amended as of July 1,
      1996. 

10-nnn 

Pacific
      Telesis Group Executive Deferral Plan, restated as of November 1,
      1994. 

12 

Computation
      of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed
Charges. 

13 

Portions
      of AT T s Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
      December 31, 2007. Only the information incorporated by reference into
      this Form 10-K is included in the
exhibit. 

21 

Subsidiaries
      of AT T Inc. 

23 

Consent
      of Ernst   Young LLP, independent registered public
      accounting firm for AT T. 

20 

AT T
      Inc.   

31.1 

Certification
      of Principal Executive Officer 

31.2 

Certification
      of Principal Financial Officer 

We will
furnish to stockholders upon request, and without charge, a copy of the annual
report to stockholders and the proxy statement, portions of which are
incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K. We will furnish any other exhibit at
cost. 

21 

Schedule II - Sheet
1  

AT T INC.  

       SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

       Allowance for
Uncollectibles  

      Dollars
in Millions 

_____________ 

(a) 

Excludes
      direct charges and credits to expense on the statements of income and
      reinvested earnings related to interexchange carrier
      receivables. 

(b) 

Includes
      amounts previously written off which were credited directly to this
      account when recovered and amounts related to long-distance carrier
      receivables which were billed by
AT T. 

(c)   

Amounts
      written off as uncollectible. 

22 

Schedule II - Sheet
2  

AT T INC.  

       SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

       Accumulated Amortization of
Intangibles  

      Dollars
in Millions 

_____________ 

(a)   

Consolidation
      of AT T Mobility due to the December 2006 acquisition of
      BellSouth. 

23 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, on the 27th day of February, 2008. 

AT T
INC. 

/s/ Richard G.
      Lindner  

Richard
      G. Lindner 

                Senior
      Executive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
date indicated. 

Principal
Executive Officer: 

        Randall Stephenson* 

        Chairman of the Board, Chief
Executive Officer 

        and President 

Principal
Financial and Accounting Officer: 

        Richard G. Lindner 

        Senior Executive Vice
President 

        and Chief Financial
Officer 

/s/ Richard G.
      Lindner  

Richard
      G. Lindner, as attorney-in-fact 

                and
      on his own behalf as Principal 

                Financial
      Officer and Principal 

                Accounting
      Officer 

February
27, 2008 

Directors: 

Randall
      L. Stephenson* 

Jon
      C. Madonna* 

William
      F. Aldinger III* 

Lynn
      M. Martin* 

Gilbert
      F. Amelio* 

John
      B. McCoy* 

Reuben
      V. Anderson* 

Mary
      S. Metz* 

James
      H. Blanchard* 

Toni
      Rembe* 

August
      A. Busch III* 

Joyce
      M. Roch * 

James
      P. Kelly* 

Laura
      D Andrea Tyson* 

Charles
      F. Knight* 

Patricia
      P. Upton* 

* by
power of attorney 

<EX-4.C>
 2
 ex4c.htm
 GUARANTY OF CERTAIN OBLAGATIONS OF PBTC

ex4c.htm 

Exhibit
4-c 

      GUARANTEE
UNDERTAKING 

      OF 

      SBC
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 

I,
the Assistant Treasurer of SBC Communications Inc. (the "Corporation"), pursuant
to the authority granted to me in the Schedule of Authorizations of the
Corporation, dated as of December 19, 1997, hereby undertake on behalf of the
Corporation for the benefit of the respective holders of the Debt Securities (as
defined below), as follows: 

(1)
The Corporation hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the punctual
and full payment of all amounts payable by each of Pacific Bell ("PacBell") and
Southwestern Bell Telephone Company ("SWBell") under each of the outstanding
Debt Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable (whether at
stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, repayment
at the option of the holder or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of each
Debt Security and of each indenture under which such security was issued) (the
"Guarantee"). 

(2)
The Guarantee with respect to each outstanding Debt Security will continuously
remain in effect until the entire principal of (and premium, if any) and
interest, if any, on such Debt Security shall have been paid in
full. 

(3)
The Guarantee will constitute the direct, absolute and unconditional,
unsubordinated and unsecured obligation of the Corporation ranking pari passu
with all of its unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. 

(4)
The holders of each Debt Security are entitled to enforce their rights under the
indenture relating to such security directly against the Corporation, without
first instituting a proceeding against the issuer of such security or any other
person or entity, upon any event of default in payment of principal, or premium,
if any, or interest, if any, on such security (whether at stated maturity, by
declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, repayment at the option of the
holder or otherwise). 

(5)  This
Guarantee undertaking is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by
law. 

(6)
For the purposes of this Guarantee undertaking, the term "Debt Securities" shall
mean the following: (a) Pacbell's Ten Year 7 1/4% Notes due July 1, 2002, Twelve
Year 6 1/4% Notes due March 1, 2005, Thirty Year 6 7/8% Debentures due August
15, 2023, Thirty-Three Year 7 1/8% Debentures due March 15, 2026, Forty Year 7
1/2% Debentures due February 1, 2033, Forty-One Year 6 5/8% Debentures due
October 15, 2034, Thirty-Six Year 6% Debentures due November 1, 2002 and the
Thirty-Five Year 6 1/2% Debentures due July 1, 2003; and (b) SWBell's Seven Year
6 1/8% Notes due March 1, 2000, Eight Year 6 3/8% Notes due April 1, 2001,
Twelve Year 6 5/8% Notes due April 1, 2005, Forty Year 6 7/8% Debentures due
February 1, 2011, Twenty-two Year 7% Debentures due July 1, 2015, Thirty Year 7
5/8% Debentures due March 1, 2023, Thirty-Two Year 7 1/4% Debentures due July
15, 2025, its Fifty Year 6 7/8% Debentures due March 31, 2048, Thirty-Six Year 5
7/8% Debentures due June 1, 2003, Forty Year 5 3/8% Debentures due June 1, 2006
and it Forty Year 6 3/4% Debentures due June 1, 2008. 

(7)   The
Guarantee is effective on the date hereof. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, I have executed this Guarantee undertaking. 

      Dated:
November 8, 1999 

/s/
Roger Wohlert 

      ---------------------------------- 

      Name:  Roger
Wohlert 

      Title:
Assistant Treasurer 

</EX-4.C>

<EX-10.H>
 3
 ex10h.htm
 AT&T INC HEALTH PLAN, FORMERLY THE EXECUTIVE HEALTH PLAN

ex10h.htm 

Exhibit 10-h  

AT T HEALTH   PLAN   

Effective:    January 1, 1987  

R  evisions
Effective:    January 1, 2008  

AT T HEALTH   PLAN   

TABLE OF
CONTENTS  

AT T HEALTH   PLAN   

ARTICLE 1       PURPOSE   

The   AT T Health Plan   ("Plan") provides Eligible Employees,
certain Retired Eligible Employees  ,   and each of their Dependents with
supplemental medical, dental  ,   and vision
benefits.    

ARTICLE 2       DEFINITIONS   

For purposes of this Plan, the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise:  

2.1           Basic
Plan(s)    .
   Basic Plan(s)  shall mean
  AT T   s group managed care medical (known as
the   AT T   Medical     Plan), dental   (non-DHMO option)  , and vision care plans   (including the AT T Retiree Vision
Care Program)  .     For a Participant who
Retired on or before   August
31, 1992  , Basic Plans shall
mean the AT T Medical and Group Life Insurance Plan CustomCare
( CustomCare ) and dental (non-DHMO option) plans.  

2.2           CEO    .  "CEO" shall mean the Chief
Executive Officer of   AT T Inc.  

2.3           COBRA    .      COBRA  shall mean the
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended. 

2.4           Committee    .  "Committee" shall mean the
Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of   AT T Inc.  

2.5           Dependent      (s)    .    Dependent  (s)    shall mean those individuals
 who would
qualify as an Eligible Employee s dependent  (  s  )   under the terms of the   major medical Basic Plan in which the
Eligible Employee participates  , or, if applicable, Substitute Basic
Coverage.  

2.6           Disability     .     "Disability" shall mean
qualification for long term disability benefits under   S  ection 3.1 of the Officer Disability
Plan.  

2.7           Eligible
Employee    .  "Eligible Employee" shall
mean an Officer  .    Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the CEO may, from time to time, exclude any   Officer   or group of   Officers   from being an  Eligible Employee  under
this Plan.   Employees of a
company acquired by AT T shall not be considered an Eligible Employee unless
designated as such by the CEO.  

2.8           Employer    .   "Employer" shall mean   AT T Inc.   or any of its
Subsidiaries.  

2.9           Officer    .  "Officer" shall mean an
individual who is designated as an officer   level Employee   for compensation purposes on
  the records of
AT T.  

1 

2.10           Participant    .    Participant  shall mean an Eligible
Employee or Retired Eligible Employee who has been designated to participate in
the Plan and his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )  .  

2.11           Plan
Year    .
        Plan Year  shall mean the calendar
year.  

2.12           Qualified
Dependent    .     Qualified Dependent 
  shall   mean  a Dependent who loses
coverage under a COBRA Eligible Program due to a Qualifying Event. 

2.13           Qualifying
Event    .        Qualifying Event    shall   mean  any of the following events
if, but for COBRA continuation coverage, they would result in a Participant s
loss of coverage under this Plan: 

      (1)      death of a covered
Employee; 

      (2)      termination (other
than by reason of such Employee's gross misconduct) of an Employee's
employment; 

      (3)      reduction in hours of
an Employee; 

      (4)      divorce or legal
separation of an Employee or dissolution of an Employee's registered domestic
partnership; 

      (5)      an Employee's
entitlement to Medicare benefits; or 

      (6)      a Dependent child
ceasing to qualify as a Dependent under a Program. 

2.14          Retire or
Retirement  .   Retire  or "Retirement" shall mean the
termination of an Eligible Employee's employment with AT T or any of its
Subsidiaries, for reasons other than death, on or after the earlier of the
following dates:  (1) the date such Eligible Employee has attained age
55, and, for an Eligible Employee on or after January 1, 2002, has five (5)
years of service, or (2) the date the Eligible Employee has attained one of the
following combinations of age and service at termination of employment on or
after April 1, 1997:    

Net
      Credited Service   
                  Age   

25 years or
      more                          
                 50 or
      older  

30 years or
      more      
                 Any
    age  

2.15           SEVP-HR     .        SEVP-HR  shall mean AT T s highest
ranking Officer, specifically responsible for human resources
matters.  

2.16           S      ubsidiary    .    "Subsidiary" shall mean any
corporation, partnership, venture or other entity in which   AT T   holds, directly or indirectly, a 50% or
greater ownership interest.  The Committee may, at its sole
discretion, designate any other corporation, partnership, venture or other
entity a Subsidiary for the purpose of participating in this
Plan.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, unless
designated a  Subsidiary  pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence,
Cingular Wireless LLC, Sterling Commerce, Inc.  ,   and their respective subsidiaries shall
not be considered a Subsidiary under this Plan.  

2 

2.1    7        AT T    .  "  AT T  " shall mean   AT T Inc.  

ARTICLE 3       ELIGIBILITY   

3.1           Active Participants and
their Dependents    .       Each Eligible Employee shall be eligible
to participate in this Plan along with his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )   beginning on the effective date of the
employee   becoming   an Eligible
Employee.  

Upon becoming a  n Eligible Employee  , he/she   shall have 90 days to elect to
participate in this Plan.  In order to continue participation, the
Eligible Employee must pay all applicable contributions.  If an
Eligible Employee terminates participation in this Plan at any time for any
reason, that Eligible Employee and his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )   shall be ineligible to participate in
the Plan at any time in the future.  

3.2           Retired Participants and
their Dependents     .     Provisions of this Plan will continue in
effect during Retirement for each Eligible Employee and his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )   with respect to any Eligible Employee
who became a Participant before   January 1, 1999  .  Neither an Eligible
Employee who became an Eligible Employee after   December 31, 1998   nor his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )   shall be eligible for participation
hereunder on or after such Eligible Employee s
Retirement.  

3.3           Requirement to Enroll and
Participate in Basic Plans and Medicare     .     As a condition to
participation in the Plan, each Participant must be enrolled in, paying for, and
participating in (i) the Basic Plans, or, if applicable, Substitute Basic
Coverage, and (ii) all parts of Medicare for which such Participant is
eligible   and for which
Medicare would be primary if enrolled therein, except for Medicare Part D
relating to prescription drug coverage.  

Notwithstanding any other provision of
the Plan to the contrary, an individual who first becomes an Eligible Employee
in the middle of a Plan Year and who is enrolled in   AT T   sponsored group health plans other than
the Basic Plans, will be allowed to participate in the Plan for the remainder of
the Plan Year along with his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )   who are enrolled in such other
  AT T   sponsored health plans, as if they were
participating in the Basic Plans.  At the next group enrollment
opportunity for the Basic Plans, the Eligible Employee and hi  s/  her Dependent  (  s  )   must enroll in the Basic Plans to
continue participation in this Plan.  

ARTICLE 4       BENEFITS   

4.1           Covered
Benefits    .
Subject to the limitations in this Article, this Plan provides 100% payment,
through reimbursement or otherwise, of all medical, dental  ,   and vision services not paid under the
Eligible Employee s (i) Basic Plans or, if applicable, Substitute Basic
Coverage, or (ii) Medicare, provided expenses for such services would qualify as
deductible medical expenses for federal income tax purposes, whether deducted or
not.   Contributions or
premiums for participation in this Plan, the Basic Plans, Medicare, or any other
health plan are not considered  services , and are therefore not eligible
benefits under this Plan.  

3 

4.2           Benefit
Limits    .    Benefits paid to any
Eligible Employee or any one of his  /  her Dependents under this Plan shall not
exceed $50,000 per Plan Year per individual  , and b  enefits paid to any Eligible Employee
and hi  s/  her Dependents under this Plan shall not
exceed $100,000 total per Plan Year. Amounts paid to or on behalf of an Eligible
Employee or his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )   under (i) the Basic Plans, or if
applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage, (ii) Medicare, or (i  ii  ) any other   AT T   sponsored group health plan will not be
included in these limits.  

4.3           Priority of Paying Covered
Claims    .    Claims for benefits will be
applied against the various health plans   and coordinated with Medicare
  in the following
order:  

      (1)        Medicare, to the extent the Participant
is eligible therefore and such claim is actually paid by
Medicare,   

      (2)      Basic
Plans, 

      (3)      CarePlus, if
elected, 

      (4)      Long Term Care Plan,
if elected, 

      (5)      this
Plan. 

4.4           Substitute Basic
Coverage    .  Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Plan to the contrary, if an Eligible Employee is eligible for
participation under this Plan during Retirement, but not eligible to participate
under the Basic Plans, the Plan shall provide medical, dental, and vision
benefits for the Eligible Employee and his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )   substantially equivalent to the
benefits under the Basic Plans through an insured product (hereinafter,
"Substitute Basic Coverage"). Eligibility for Substitute Basic Coverage is
conditioned upon the Eligible Employee s payment of contributions in the same
amount that a similarly situated retired Basic Plan participant is required to
pay under the Basic Plans. Such Substitute Basic Coverage shall constitute such
Eligible Employee s Basic Plans for all purposes under this Plan.  The
costs of Substitute Basic Coverage (except for the required monthly
contributions referenced in this paragraph) shall be borne by   AT T  , and the costs of Substitute Basic
Coverage shall not be included in the determination of any Participant s annual
Plan contribution amount as provided in Article 7.  

ARTICLE 5       TERMINATION OF
PARTICIPATION   

5.1           Termination of
Participation     .     Participation will cease on
the last day of the month in which one of the following conditions
occurs:  

(1)    

The Participant is no longer a
      participant in the Basic Plans or     Substitute Basic Coverage, in
      which case participation ceases for such
    Participant;  

4 

(2)    

A
      Participant eligible to enroll in Medicare is no longer a participant in
      all parts of Medicare for which such Participant is eligible to enroll and
      for which Medicare would be primary if enrolled therein, except for
      Medicare Part D relating to prescription drug coverage, in which case
      participation ceases for such
Participant; 

(3)    

The Eligible Employee s
      termination of employment for reasons     other than   Death,   Disability  ,   or Retirement, in which
      case     participation ceases for the
      Eligible Employee and his  /  her     Dependent  (  s  )  ;  

(4)    

The demotion or designation of an
      Eligible Employee so as to no     longer be eligible to participate
      in the Plan, in which case participation ceases for the Eligible employee
      and his  /  her     Dependent  (  s  )  ;  

(5)    

The Eligible Employee (or Retired
      Eligible Employee) engages in     competitive activity under Article
      8, in which case participation     ceases for the Eligible Employee
      (or Retired Eligible Employee)     and his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )  ;
  or  

(6)    

Discontinuance of the Plan by
        AT T  , or, with respect to
      a     Subsidiary s Eligible Employees
      (or Retired Eligible Employees), such Subsidiary s failure to make the
      benefits hereunder available     to Eligible Employees employed by
      it (or its Retired Eligible     Employees), in which case
      participation ceases for the Eligible     Employee (or Retired Eligible
      Employee) and his  /  her     Dependent  (  s  )  .  

5.2           Dependents Failure to
Participate in Basic Plans    .    If a Dependent ceases
participation under a Basic Plan   or, if applicable, Substitute Basic
Coverage  , such Dependent s
participation under this Plan will cease with the same effective
date.  

5.3           Death    .    In the event of the Eligible
Employee s (or Retired Eligible Employee s) death, the Eligible Employee s (or
Retired Eligible Employee s) Dependents may continue participation in this Plan
  as
follows:  

(1)  

In the event of the death of a
      Retired Eligible Employee such     Retired Eligible
      Employee s   Dependents
      may continue participation     in this Plan for so long as such
      Dependents are participating in the     Basic Plans   (or, if applicable, Substitute
      Basic Coverage)   and
      are paying any applicable contributions for this Plan   as provided in Article
      7  .  

5 

(2)  

In the event of an in-service
      death of an Eligible Employee eligible to participate in the Plan in
      Retirement as provided under Article 3.2, such Eligible
      Employee s     surviving   Dependents may
      continue     participation in this Plan for so
      long as such Dependents are     participating in the Basic Plans
        (or, if applicable
      Substitute Basic Coverage)   and are paying any applicable
      contributions for this     Plan   as provided in Article
      7.  If a surviving spouse of such Eligible Employee otherwise
      eligible for participation in the Plan remarries, his/her participation
      will cease with the effective date of his/her
    marriage.  

(3)  

In the event of an in-service
      death of an Eligible Employee not eligible to participate in the Plan in
      Retirement as provided in Article 3.2, such Eligible Employee s
      Dependent(s) may continue participation in this Plan for a 12-month period
      commencing the month following the month in which such Eligible Employee
      dies as long as such Dependent(s) are participating in the Basic Plans and
      are paying any applicable contributions for this Plan as provided in
      Article 7.  If the Eligible Employee s Dependent(s) are eligible
      for COBRA, they will automatically be enrolled in COBRA so that there is
      no lapse in coverage, and this 12-month coverage will be integrated and
      run concurrently with COBRA
coverage.  

ARTICLE 6       DISABILITY   

6.1           Disability    .   With respect to any Eligible Employee
who is receiving short term or long term disability benefits under the Officer
Disability Plan, participation under this Plan will be as
follows:  

(1)  

T  he Eligible Employee will be
      eligible to participate in this Plan for as long as he/she receives short
      term or long term disability benefits under the Officer Disability
      Plan.  

(2)  

An individual who became an
      Eligible Employee on or after   January 1, 1999   will no longer be eligible to
      participate in this Plan once long term disability benefits under the
      Officer Disability Plan are discontinued, unless the Eligible Employee is
      otherwise eligible for continued benefits under this
      Plan.    

(3)  

An Employee who became an Eligible
      Employee before   January 1, 1999  , will be eligible for
      participation in this Plan as
follows:  

(  a  )  

If the individual is Retirement
      eligible at the time long term disability benefits under the Officer
      Disability Plan commence, he/she will be eligible to continue
      participation in this Plan on the same terms and conditions that
      participation would be available to such Eligible Employee in Retirement,
      regardless of his/her continued receipt of long term disability
      benefits.  

6 

(  b  )  

If the individual is not
      Retirement eligible at the time long term disability benefits under the
      Officer Disability Plan commence, he/she will be eligible to participate
      in this Plan for   as   long as such Eligible Employee
      participates in the Basic
Plans.  

ARTICLE 7       COSTS   

7.1           Costs of the
Plan    .  Except as provided below in
this Article 7, costs and expenses incurred in the operation and administration
of this Plan will be borne by   AT T  , and each Subsidiary shall reimburse
  AT T   for applicable costs and expenses
attributable to Eligible Employees employed by it     (and Retired Eligible Employees formerly
employed by it).  

7.2           Participant Contributions
for 2006      ,      
2007      , and
2008    .    For Plan Years 2006 and 2007
contributions made by Participants shall be set annually by the SEVP-HR in an
amount that approximates the aggregate monthly contribution the Participant
would have paid under this Plan and CustomCare as if CustomCare was the
applicable Basic Plan.  The SEVP-HR may adopt tiered rates for
similarly situated groups of Participants based on factors such as the number of
Dependents covered or Medicare eligibility.  For the 2008 Plan Year,
contributions made by Participants shall equal the contributions made by
similarly situated Participants in 2007.  

7.3           Eligible Employee
Contributions    .   Effective   January 1, 1999  , an Eligible Employee electing to
participate   in   the Plan will pay to participate in the
Plan while in active service or while receiving short term or long term
disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan  .   The contribution for participation may
change annually, effective at the beginning of each Plan
Year.    Except as
provided in Article 7.2 s  uch   contribution will equal 10% of the
Plan s actual costs per Eligible Employee and Retired Eligible Employee for the
entire Plan Year beginning two   (2)   years prior to the Plan Year for which
the calculation is being made (e.g., the contribution  s   for 2004 are based on the Plan s costs
during calendar year 2002)  .  

7.4           Retired Eligible
Employees    .
  Eligible Employees entitled
to participate in the Plan after Retirement or after termination of long term
disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan who elect to participate
will pay to participate in the Plan. The contribution for participation may
change annually, effective at the beginning of each Plan Year.   Except as provided in Article 7.2
s  uch contribution will
equal a percentage of the Plan s actual costs per Eligible Employee and Retired
Eligible Employee for the entire Plan Year beginning two   (2)   years prior to the Plan Year for which
the calculation is being made (e.g., the contribution  s   for 2004 are based on the Plan s costs
during calendar year 2002).      An Eligible Employee retiring prior to
  January 1, 1999   will pay a 10% contribution percentage.
     Eligible Employees retiring after
December 31, 1998 shall pay the lower of the annual contribution percentage
determined using such Eligible Employee s   a  ge or   y  ears   u  ntil Retirement as of December 31, 1997
as follows:  

7 

*  I  n the event an Eligible Employee is less
than one whole year from retirement eligibility, the Annual Contribution
Percentage shall be determined as if one whole year from retirement
eligibility  .  

Upon the
death of an Eligible Employee the contribution percentage paid by the surviving
spouse will be equal to the contribution, adjusted (if applicable) for factors
such as the number of Dependents or Medicare eligibility that that would have
been paid by the Eligible Employee had he/she survived.  In the event
there is no surviving spouse but there are surviving eligible Dependents, such
Dependents shall pay a ratable share of the contribution, adjusted (if
applicable) for factors such as the number of Dependents or Medicare eligibility
that would have been paid by the Eligible Employee had he/she
survived. 

In order to continue participation, the
Retired Eligible Employee or his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )   must pay all applicable
contributions.  

If a Retired Eligible Employee
terminates participation at any time for any reason, participation of that
Retired Eligible Employee and his  /  her Dependent  (  s  )   may not be reinstated   for   any reason.  

ARTICLE 8   COVENANT NOT
TO COMPETE   

Non-Competition    .    Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Plan, no coverage shall be provided under this Plan with respect to any
Eligible Employee who shall, without the written consent of   AT T  , and while employed by   AT T   or any   S  ubsidiary thereof, or within three (3)
years after termination of employment from   AT T   or any   S  ubsidiary thereof, engage in competition
with   AT T   or any   S  ubsidiary thereof or with any business
with which a subsidiary of   AT T   or an affiliated company has a
substantial interest (collectively referred to herein as "Employer
business").  For purposes of this Plan, engaging in competition with
any Employer business shall mean engaging by Eligible Employee in any business
or activity in the same geographical market where the same or substantially
similar business or activity is being carried on as an Employer
business.  Such term shall not include owning a nonsubstantial
publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that competes with an
Employer business.  However, engaging in competition with an Employer
business shall include representing or providing consulting services to, or
being an employee of, any person or entity that is engaged in competition with
any Employer business or that takes a position adverse to any Employer
business.  Accordingly, benefits shall not be provided under this Plan
if, within the time period and without the written consent specified,
  the   Eligible Employee either engages
directly in competitive activity or in any capacity in any location becomes
employed by, associated with, or renders service to any company, or parent or
affiliate thereof, or any subsidiary of any of them, if any of them is engaged
in competition with an Employer business, regardless of the position or duties
the Eligible Employee takes and regardless of whether or not the employing
company, or the company that Eligible Employee becomes associated with or
renders service to, is itself engaged in direct competition with an Employer
business.  

8 

ARTICLE 9      MISCELLANEOUS   

9.1           Administration    .  Subject to the terms of the
Plan, the   CEO or
SEVP-HR   shall establish
such rules as are deemed necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.
  AT T   will compute a "gross-up" allowance
which will be paid to an Eligible Employee to offset any income tax liabilities
incurred as a result of receiving benefits under this Plan.     

9.2           Amendments and
Termination    .  This Plan may be modified
or terminated at any time in accordance with the provisions of   AT T  's Schedule of
Authorizations.  

9.3          Newborns' and Mothers'
Health Protection Act of 1996  .  To the extent this Plan
provides benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth,
the Plan will cover the minimum length of stay required for deliveries (i.e., a
48-hour hospital stay after a vaginal delivery or a 96-hour stay following a
delivery by Cesarean section.)  The mother s or newborn s attending
physician, after consulting with the mother, may discharge the mother or her
newborn earlier than the minimum length of stay otherwise required by
law.  Such coverage shall be subject to all other provisions of this
Plan. 

9.4          Women's Health and Cancer
Rights Act of 1998  .  To the extent this Plan provides
benefits for mastectomies, it will provide, for an individual who is receiving
benefits in connection with a mastectomy and who elects breast reconstruction in
connection with such mastectomy, coverage for reconstruction on the breast on
which the mastectomy was performed, surgery and reconstruction on the other
breast to give a symmetrical appearance, and prosthesis and coverage for
physical complications of all stages of the mastectomy, including
lymphedemas.  Such coverage shall be subject to all other provisions
of this Plan. 

9 

9.5          Mental Health Parity Act of
1996  .  To the extent this Plan provides mental health
benefits other than treatment for substance or alcohol abuse, it will not place
annual or lifetime maximums for such benefits that are lower than the annual and
lifetime maximums for physical health benefits.  Such coverage shall
be subject to all other provisions of this Plan. 

9.6          Continuation of Coverage
During Family or Medical Leave  .  During any period which
an Eligible Employee is on a family or medical leave as defined in the Family or
Medical Leave Act, any benefit elections in force for the Eligible Employee
shall remain in effect.  While the Eligible Employee is on paid leave,
contributions shall continue.  If the Eligible Employee is on an
unpaid leave, the Eligible Employee may elect to prepay required contributions
on a pre-tax basis before the commencement of such unpaid
leave.  Alternatively, the Eligible Employee may elect to make such
payments on an after-tax basis monthly in accordance with an arrangement that
the Plan Administrator shall provide.  If coverage is not continued
during the entire period of the family or medical leave because the Eligible
Employee declines to pay the premium, the coverage must be reinstated upon
reemployment with no exclusions or waiting periods, notwithstanding any other
provision of this Plan to the contrary. If the Eligible Employee does not return
to work upon completion of the leave, the Eligible Employee must pay the full
cost of any health care coverage that was continued on his/her behalf during the
leave.  These rules apply to the COBRA Eligible Programs. 

9.7          Rights While on Military
Leave  .  Pursuant to the provisions of the Uniformed
Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, an Employee on military
leave will be considered to be on a Leave of Absence and will be entitled during
the leave to the health and welfare benefits that would be made available to
other similarly situated Employees if they were on a Leave of
Absence.  This entitlement will end if the Employee provides written
notice of intent not to return to work following the completion of the military
leave.  The Employee shall have the right to continue his/her
coverage, including any Dependent coverage, for the lesser of the length of the
leave or 18 months.  If the military leave is for a period of 31 days
or more, the Employee may be required to pay 102 percent of the total premium
(determined in the same manner as a COBRA continuation coverage
premium).  If coverage is not continued during the entire period of
the military leave because the Employee declines to pay the premium or the leave
extends beyond 18 months, the coverage must be reinstated upon reemployment with
no pre-existing condition exclusions (other than for service-related illnesses
or injuries) or waiting periods (other than those applicable to all eligible
Employees). 

9.8          Qualified Medical Child
Support Orders  .  The Plan will comply with any Qualified
Medical Child Support Order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or
administrative body that requires the Plan to provide medical coverage to a
Dependent child of an Eligible Employee.  The Plan Administrator will
establish reasonable procedures for determining whether a court order or
administrative decree requiring medical coverage for a Dependent child meets the
requirements for a Qualified Medical Child Support Order.  The cost of
coverage or any additional cost of such coverage, if any, shall be borne by the
Eligible Employee. 

10 

9.9          Right of
Recovery   .   If the Plan has
made an erroneous or excess payment to any Participant, the Plan Administrator
shall be entitled to recover such excess from the individual or entity to whom
such payments were made.  The recovery of such overpayment may be made
by offsetting the amount of any other benefit or amount payable by the amount of
the overpayment under the Plan. 

ARTICLE 10       COBRA   

10.1          Continuation of Coverage
Under COBRA  .  Participants shall have all COBRA
continuation rights required by federal law and all conversion
rights.  COBRA continuation coverage shall be continued as provided in
this Article 10. 

10.2          COBRA Continuation Coverage
for Terminated Participants  .  A covered Participant may
elect COBRA continuation coverage, at his/her own expense, if his participation
under this Plan would terminate as a result of one of the following Qualifying
Events: an Employee s termination of employment or reduction of hours with an
Employer. 

10.3          COBRA Continuation Coverage
for Dependents  .  A Qualified Dependent may elect COBRA
continuation coverage, at his/her own expense, if his/her participation under
this Plan would terminate as a result of a Qualifying Event. 

10.4          Period of Continuation
Coverage for Covered Participants   .   A covered
Participant who qualifies for COBRA continuation coverage as a result of an
Eligible Employee s termination of employment or reduction in hours of
employment described in Subsection 10.2 may elect COBRA continuation coverage
for up to 18 months measured from the date of the Qualifying Event. 
  Coverage
under this Subsection 10.4 may not continue beyond the: 

(1)   

date
      on which the Participant s Employer ceases to maintain this
      Plan; 

(2)   

last
      day of the month for which premium payments have been made with respect to
      this Plan, if the individual fails to make premium payments on time, in
      accordance with Subsection
10.6; 

(3)   

date
      the covered Participant becomes entitled to Medicare;
  or 

11 

(4)   

date
      the covered Participant is no longer subject to a pre-existing condition
      exclusion under the Participant's other coverage or new employer plan for
      the type of coverage available under the COBRA Eligible Program for which
      the COBRA election was made. 

10.5          Period of COBRA Continuation
Coverage for Dependents  .  If a Qualified Dependent
elects COBRA continuation coverage under a COBRA Eligible Program as a result of
the an Employee s termination of employment as described in Subsection 10.2,
continuation coverage may be continued for up to 18 months measured from the
date of the Qualifying Event.  COBRA continuation coverage for all
other Qualifying Events may continue for up to 36 months. 

Continuation
coverage under this Subsection 10.5 with respect to a COBRA Eligible Program may
not continue beyond the date: 

(1)   

on
      which premium payments have not been made, in accordance with Subsection
      10.6 below; 

(2)   

the
      Participant becomes entitled to
Medicare; 

(3)   

on
      which the Employer ceases to maintain this Plan;
  or 

(4)   

the
      Participant is no longer subject to a pre-existing condition exclusion
      under the Participant s other coverage or new employer plan for the type
      of coverage available under this
Plan. 

10.6          Contribution Requirements
for COBRA Continuation Coverage  .  Covered Participants
and Qualified Dependents who elect COBRA continuation coverage as a result of a
Qualifying Event will be required to pay continuation coverage
payments.  Continuation coverage payments are the payments required
for COBRA continuation coverage that is an amount equal to a reasonable estimate
of the cost to this Plan of providing coverage for all covered Participants at
the time of the Qualifying Event plus a  2% administrative
expense.  In the case of a disabled individual who receives an
additional 11-month extended coverage under COBRA, the Employer may assess up to
150% of the cost for this extended coverage period.  Such cost shall
be determined on an actuarial basis and take into account such factors as the
Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe in regulations. 

Covered
Participants and Qualified Dependents must make the continuation coverage
payment prior to the first day of the month in which such coverage will take
effect.  However, a covered Participant or Qualified Dependent has 45
days from the date of an affirmative election to pay the continuation coverage
payment for the first month's payment and the cost for the period between the
date medical coverage would otherwise have terminated due to the Qualifying
Event and the date the covered Participant and/or Qualified Dependent actually
elects COBRA continuation coverage. 

12 

The
covered Participant and/or Qualified Dependent shall have a 30-day grace period
to make the continuation coverage payments due
thereafter.  Continuation coverage payments must be postmarked on or
before the completion of the 30-day grace period.  If continuation
coverage payments are not made on a timely basis, COBRA continuation coverage
will terminate as of the last day of the month for which timely premiums were
made.  The 30-day grace period shall not apply to the 45-day period
for the first month s payment of COBRA premiums as set out in the section
above. 

If
payment is received that is significantly less than the required continuation
coverage payment, then continuation coverage will terminate as of the last day
of the month for which premiums were paid.  A payment is considered
significantly less than the amount due if it is greater than the lesser of $50
or 10% of the required continuation coverage payment.  Upon receipt of
a continuation coverage payment that is insignificantly less than the required
amount, the Plan Administrator must notify the covered Participant or Qualified
Dependent of the amount of the shortfall and provide them with an additional
30-day grace period from the date of the notice for this payment
only. 

10.7          Limitation on Participant's
Rights to COBRA Continuation Coverage  . 

(1)   

If
      a Qualified Dependent loses, or will lose medical coverage under this Plan
      as a result of divorce, legal separation, entitlement to Medicare, or
      ceasing to be a Dependent, such Qualified Dependent is responsible for
      notifying the Plan Administrator in writing within 60 days of the
      Qualifying Event.  Failure to make timely notification will
      terminate the Qualified Dependent's rights to COBRA continuation coverage
      under this Article. 

(2)   

A
      Participant must complete and return the required enrollment materials
      within 60 days from the later of (a) the date of loss of coverage, or (b)
      the date the Plan Administrator sends notice of eligibility for COBRA
      continuation coverage.  Failure to enroll for COBRA continuation
      coverage during this 60-day period will terminate all rights to COBRA
      continuation coverage under this Article.  An affirmative
      election of COBRA continuation coverage by a Participant or his/her spouse
      shall be deemed to be an election for that Participant's Dependent(s) who
      would otherwise lose coverage under the
Plan. 

10.8          Subsequent Qualifying
Event  .  If a second Qualifying Event occurs during an
18-month extension explained above, coverage may be continued for a maximum of
36 months from the date of the first Qualifying Event.  In the event
the Dependent loses coverage due to a Qualifying Event and after such date the
Participant becomes entitled to Medicare, the Dependent shall have available up
to 36 months of coverage measured from the date of the Qualifying Event that
causes the loss of coverage.  If the Participant was entitled to
Medicare prior to the Qualifying Event, the Dependent shall have up to 36 months
of coverage measured from the date of entitlement to
Medicare. 

13 

10.9          Extension of COBRA
Continuation Period for Disabled Individuals  .  The
period of continuation shall be extended to 29 months in total (measured from
the date of the Qualifying Event) in the event the individual is disabled as
determined by the Social Security laws within 60 days of the Qualifying
Event.  The individual must provide evidence to the Plan Administrator
of such Social Security determination prior to the earlier of 60 days after the
date of the Social Security determination, or the expiration of the initial 18
months of COBRA continuation coverage.  In such event, the Employer
may charge the individual up to 150% of the COBRA cost of the
coverage. 

ARTICLE 11       PRIVACY OF MEDICAL
INFORMATION   

11.1           Definitions    .    For purposes of this Article
1  1  , the following defined terms shall have
the meaning assigned to such terms in this subsection:  

(1)  
                    Business
      Associate  shall mean an outside entity or person that performs
      administrative or other functions on behalf of the
  Plan;  

(2)  
                  Health
      Care Operations  shall mean activities that involve, but are   not limited to, quality assessment
      and improvement, the     assessment of health care
      professionals, disease management,     case management, legal services,
      benefits fraud and abuse     investigations, and business
      planning and development (including     cost-management and planning
      analyses).  Health Care     Operations also include, but are
      not limited to, general health care     plan administrative functions such
      as management activities     relating to compliance with
      HIPAA s administrative simplification     requirements, customer service
      involving the provision of data     analysis for the Plan Sponsor of
      the HIPAA Plan and other entities     whose employees participate in the
      HIPAA Plan, resolution of     internal     grievances and due diligence in
      connection with the sale     or transfer of assets to a
      potential successor in interest if the     potential successor is a covered
      entity, or will become a covered     entity, under
      HIPAA;    

(3)  
                HIPAA 
      shall mean the Health Insurance Portability and   Accountability Act of 1996 as
      amended from time to time.    

(4)  
                  Payment 
      shall mean any activities performed that involve making   benefit determinations and
      payment. These activities include, but are not limited to, billing,
      reviews for medical necessity, claims management, coordination of
      benefits, adjudication of health benefits claims (including appeals and
      other payment-related disputes), subrogation, plan reimbursement,
      investigations of potential fraud, determining employee contributions,
      reviews of appropriateness of care, preauthorizations and utilization
      reviews;    

14 

(5) 

Protected
      Health Information  or   PHI    shall mean
      individually     identifiable information
      created or retained by the HIPAA Plan beginning on or after April 14, 2003
      which pertains to a person s past, present or future physical or mental
      health, the health care the person is receiving or has received in the
      past and all past, present or future Payments for the person s health
      care;    

(6)  
                  Treatment 
      means the provision, coordination or management of   health care and related services
      by one or more health care providers. This category includes, but is not
      limited to, consultations and referrals between health care providers, the
      coordination or management of health care by a health care provider with a
      third party and the referral of a patient for health care from one health
      care provider to
another.    

11.2           Privacy Provisions Relating
to Protected Health Information      
(       PHI       )    .    The Plan and its Business Associates
(collectively referred to in this Article   11   as a  HIPAA Plan ) shall use and
disclose   PHI   to the extent permitted by, and in
accordance with, HIPAA.  Specifically, each HIPAA Plan will use and
disclose   PHI   for Treatment, Payment and Health Care
Operations.  

11.3         Disclosure of De-Identified
or Summary Health Information  .  The HIPAA Plan, or, with
respect to the HIPAA Plan, a health insurance issuer, may disclose de-identified
or summary health information to the Plan Sponsor of the HIPAA Plan (and its
affiliates) if such entity requests the de-identified or summary health
information for the purpose of: 

(1)  
               Obtaining
      premium bids from health plans for providing health   insurance coverage under the HIPAA
      Plan;    

(2)  
               Modifying,
      amending or terminating the group health benefits   under the HIPAA
      Plan;    

In addition, the HIPAA Plan or a health
insurance insurer with respect to the HIPAA Plan may disclose to the Plan
Sponsor of the HIPAA Plan (or its affiliates) information on whether an
individual is participating in the group health benefits provided by the HIPAA
Plan or is enrolled in, or has ceased enrollment with health insurance offered
by the HIPAA Plan.  

15 

11.4           The HIPAA Plan Will Use and
Disclose     PHI     as Required by
Law         or as Permitted by the
Authorization of the Participant or Beneficiary    .  

Upon submission of an authorization
signed by a   P  articipant, beneficiary, subscriber or
personal representative that meets HIPAA requirements, the HIPAA Plan will
disclose   PHI   to a Company (or affiliate) sponsored
pension plan, long term care plan, disability plan or other benefit plan
sponsored by the Company (or an affiliate) with a need to access this
  PHI   for purposes related to such benefit
plan s administration. Authorizations will also be honored when provided to the
HIPAA Plan with respect to job accommodation requests, Family Medical Leave Act
requests, drug/substance abuse testing, fitness for duty exams  ,   and workers compensation
claims.  

In addition,   PHI   will be disclosed to the extent
permitted or required by law, without the submission of an authorization
form.  

11.5           Disclosure of
      PHI       to the Plan
Sponsor     .     The HIPAA Plan will disclose
information to the Plan Sponsor only upon certification from the Plan Sponsor
that the HIPAA Plan documents have been amended to incorporate the assurances
provided below.  

The Plan Sponsor agrees
to:  

(1)  

not use or further disclose
        PHI   other than as permitted or
      required by the HIPAA Plan document or as required by
      law;  

(2)  

ensure that any affiliates or
      agents, including a subcontractor, to whom the Plan Sponsor provides
        PHI   received from the HIPAA Plan,
      agrees to the same restrictions and conditions that apply to the Plan
      Sponsor with respect to such   PHI  ;  

(3)  

not use or disclose   PHI   for employment-related actions
      and decisions unless authorized by the individual to whom the   PHI  
  relates;  

(4)  

not use or disclose   PHI   in connection with any other
      benefits or employee benefit plan of the Plan Sponsor or its affiliates
      unless permitted by the Plan or authorized by an individual to whom the
        PHI  
  relates;  

(5)  

report to the Plan any
        PHI   use or disclosure that is
      inconsistent with the uses or disclosures provided for of which it becomes
      aware;  

(6)  

make   PHI   available to an individual in
      accordance with HIPAA s access
rules;  

16 

(7)  

make   PHI   available for amendment and
      incorporate any amendments to   PHI   in accordance with
      HIPAA;  

(8)  
                make
      available the information required to provide an accounting   of
      disclosures;    

(9)  

make internal practices, books and
      records relating to the use and disclosure of   PHI   received from the HIPAA Plan
      available to the Secretary of the United States Department of Health and
      Human Resources for purposes of determining the Plan s compliance with
      HIPAA; and  

(10)  

if feasible, return or destroy all
        PHI   received from the HIPAA Plan that
      the Plan Sponsor still maintains in any form, and retain no copies of such
        PHI   when no longer needed for the
      purpose for which disclosure was made (or if return or destruction is not
      feasible, limit further uses and disclosures to those purposes that make
      the return or destruction
infeasible.)  

11.6           Separation Between the Plan
Sponsor and the HIPAA Plan     .     In accordance with HIPAA,
only the following employees and Business Associate personnel shall be given
access to   PHI  :  

(1)  

employees of the   AT T   Benefits and/or   AT T   Executive Compensation
      organizations responsible for administering group health plan benefits
      under the HIPAA Plan, including those employees whose functions in the
      regular course of business include Payment, Health Care Operations or
      other matters pertaining to the health care programs under a HIPAA
      Plan;  

(2)  

employees who supervise the work
      of the employees described in   (1)  ,
  above;  

(3)  

support personnel, including other
      employees outside of the   AT T   Benefits or   AT T   Executive Compensation
      organizations whose duties require them to rule on health plan-related
      appeals or perform functions concerning the HIPAA
    Plan;  

(4)  

investigatory personnel to the
      limited extent that such   PHI   is necessary to conduct
      investigations of possible
fraud;  

(5)  

outside and in-house legal counsel
      providing counsel to the HIPAA
Plan;  

(6)  

consultants providing advice
      concerning the administration of the HIPAA Plan;
  and  

17 

(7)  

the employees of Business
      Associates charged with providing services to the HIPAA
      Plan.  

The persons identified above shall have
access to and use   PHI   to the extent that such access and use
is necessary for the administration of group health benefits under a HIPAA
Plan.  If these persons do not comply with this Plan document, the
Plan Sponsor shall provide a mechanism for resolving issues of noncompliance,
including disciplinary sanctions.   

18 

</EX-10.H>

<EX-10.I>
 4
 ex10i.htm
 RETIREMENT PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

ex10i.htm 

Exhibit
      10-i  

       AT T
      Inc.  

       Retirement
      Plan for Non-Employee Directors  

Effective
      February 1, 1986 

Preamble  

The
      Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Retirement Plan") provides
      retirement benefits to certain Directors of AT T Inc. (the "Corporation")
      whose right to payment hereunder is not guaranteed.  All rights,
      hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
      Missouri. 

Administration  

The
      Retirement Plan shall be administered by the Officer of the Corporation ("Plan
      Administrator") as may be designated by the Chief Executive
      Officer.  The Plan Administrator may delegate any or all duties
      hereunder to other individuals.  The Plan Administrator's decisions
      regarding the interpretation and application of the Retirement Plan shall be
      binding on all parties. 

Eligibility  

An
      individual who has never been employed by the Corporation or any of its
      subsidiaries, who began service as a Director of the Corporation on or before
      November 21, 1997, who terminates service as a Director of the Corporation
      on or
      after February 1, 1986, and who served as a Director of the Corporation ("Board
      Service") for five years or more shall be eligible to receive benefits under
      the
      Retirement Plan (a "Participant").  For the purpose of determining
      eligibility hereunder, service as a Director of Southwestern Bell Telephone
      Company prior to January 1, 1984, shall be considered Board Service
      hereunder. 

Directors
      of companies acquired by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, pursuant
      to a
      merger, consolidation, acquisition or otherwise who are appointed to the
      Corporation's Board pursuant to the agreement providing for such transaction,
      or
      any amendments thereof, or any related agreements, shall not be eligible to
      participate in the Retirement Plan, unless otherwise provided by the Human
      Resources Committee of the Board. 

Benefit
      Amount  

Participants
      shall receive an annual benefit equal to 10% of the annual retainer for Board
      Service (exclusive of retainers for Board committees or meeting fees) in effect
      upon termination of Board Service for each complete year of Board Service,
      with
      a maximum annual benefit of 100% of the applicable annual retainer. 

      Unless
      a Participant terminates Board Service at or after age 70, benefits under the
      Retirement Plan shall be actuarially reduced for each month the initial payment
      date precedes the Participant's attaining age 70; provided, however, that there
      shall be no reduction in benefits if payments commence prior to age 70 if a
      Participant terminated Board Service (a) on account of a permanent and total
      disability in accordance with the definition of Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal
      Revenue Code or any successor provision, or (b) upon the expiration of the
      final
      term of Board Service for which the Participant was of age to stand for
      election. 

Manner
      and Term of Payments  

Benefit
      payments shall commence on the first day of the first calendar quarter following
      a Participant's termination of Board Service and shall be paid quarterly
      thereafter for the longer of the life of the Participant or the 10-year period
      commencing on the date of the first payment and ending on the day next preceding
      the tenth anniversary of such date (Life with 10-Year Certain
      Benefit).  If a Participant who is receiving a Life with 10-Year
      Certain Benefit dies prior to the expiration of the 10-year period described
      above, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive the remaining
      Life with 10-Year Certain Benefit installments which would have been paid to
      the
      Participant had the Participant survived for the entire 10-year
      period.  Each benefit payment shall be one-quarter of the
      Participant's annual benefit net of applicable withholding taxes if
      any. 

If
      an individual with five years or more of Board Service dies while still serving
      as a Director, a pre-retirement death benefit will be calculated and paid as
      though the individual had retired on the date of death, except that no actuarial
      reduction shall apply if the individual dies before attaining age
      70. 

No
      right or interest in the Retirement Plan or to Retirement Plan benefits shall
      be
      assignable or transferable or shall be subject to any lien, obligation or
      liability of any Participant. 

Term
      of Retirement Plan  

The
      Retirement Plan shall remain in effect until terminated by the AT T Inc.
      Board of Directors, which may amend the Retirement Plan from time to
      time. 

Revised:
      November 18, 2005 - Name Change 

-
      2
      - 

</EX-10.I>

<EX-10.J>
 5
 ex10j.htm
 FORM OF INDEMNITY AGREEMENT

ex10j.htm 

Form
      of Director and Officer  

Indemnity
      Agreement  

AGREEMENT,
       effective as of July 1, 1986, between Southwestern Bell Corporation,
      a
      Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and separately with each Director and
      Officer of the Company (the "Indemnitee"). 

       WHEREAS,
       Indemnitee is a director or officer of the Company; 

       WHEREAS,
       both the Company and Indemnitee recognize the increased risk of
      litigation and other claims being asserted against directors and officers of
      public companies in today's environment; 

       WHEREAS,
       basic protection against undue risk of personal liability of directors
      and officers heretofore has, in part, been provided through insurance coverage
      providing reasonable protection at a reasonable cost, and Indemnitee has relied
      on the availability of such coverage; but as a result of substantial changes
      in
      the marketplace for such insurance, it has become increasingly more difficult
      to
      obtain such insurance on terms providing reasonable protection at a reasonable
      cost; 

       WHEREAS,
       the Bylaws of the Company require the Company to indemnify and advance
      expenses to its directors and officers to the full extent permitted by law
      and
      the Indemnitee has been serving and continues to serve as a director or officer
      of the Company in part in reliance on such Bylaws; 

       WHEREAS,
       Section 145(f) of the Delaware General Corporation law expressly
      recognizes that the indemnification provisions of the Delaware Corporation
      law
      are not exclusive of any other rights to which a person seeking indemnification
      may be entitled by bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or otherwise, and
      this
      Agreement is being entered into pursuant to such provision; 

       WHEREAS,
       in recognition of Indemnitee's need for substantial protection against
      personal liability in order to assure Indemnitee's continued service to the
      Company in an effective manner and Indemnitee's reliance on the aforesaid
      Bylaws, and in part to provide Indemnitee with specific contractual assurance
      that the protection promised by such Bylaws will be available to Indemnitee
      (regardless of, among other things, any amendment to or revocation of such
      Bylaws or any change in the composition of the Company's Board of Directors
      or
      acquisition of the Company), the Company wishes to provide in this Agreement
      for
      the indemnification of and the advancing of expenses to Indemnitee to the full
      extent (whether partial or complete) permitted by law and as set forth in this
      Agreement and, to the extent an outside insurance policy/policies is/are
      maintained, for the continued coverage of Indemnitee under the Company's
      directors' and officers' liability insurance policies; 

       WHEREAS,
       while this Agreement will be of full force and effect immediately
      upon
      its execution, the Board of Directors intends to place this Agreement before
      the
      Shareowners at the next Annual Meeting for ratification; 

       NOW,
      THEREFORE,  in consideration of the foregoing premises and of Indemnitee
      continuing to serve the Company directly or, at its request, with another
      enterprise, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree
      as follows: 

1.0
      CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.   

        (a)
      Change    in    Control:
  shall be deemed
      to have occurred if (i) any "person" (as such term
      is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
      as
      amended), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under
      an
      employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned directly or
      indirectly by the Shareowners of the Company in substantially the same
      proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, is or becomes the
      "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under said Act), directly or
      indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20  %   or more
      of the
      total voting power represented by the Company's then outstanding voting
      securities, or (ii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals
      who
      at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company
      and any new director whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination
      for
      election by the Company's Shareowners was approved by a vote of at least
      two-thirds ( ) of the directors then still in office who either were directors
      at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election
      was
      previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof,
      or (iii) the Shareowners of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of
      the
      Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which
      would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately
      prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by
      being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least 80%
      of
      the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company
      or
      such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or
      consolidation, or the Shareowners of the Company approve a plan of complete
      liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the
      Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets. 

        (b)          Claim:     is
      any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, or any inquiry
      or investigation, whether conducted by or on behalf of the Company or any other
      party, that Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution
      of
      any such action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative,
      investigative or other. 

        (c)          Expenses:     include
      attorneys' fees and all other costs, expenses and obligations paid or incurred
      in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in or participating
      in (including on appeal), or preparing to defend, be a witness in or
      partic ipate in any Claim relating to any Indemnifiable Event. 

        (d)          Indemnifiable
      Event:     is any event or occurrence related to
      the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee, agent or
      fiduciary of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company
      as
      a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent or fiduciary of another
      corporation, partnership or joint venture. 

        (e)          Losses:
        are any judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (including
      all interest assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with
      or
      in respect of such judgments, fines, penalties or amounts paid in settlement)
      of
      such action, suit or proceeding. 

        (f)          Reviewing
      Party:   shall mean (i) the Board of Directors (provided that a
      majority of directors are not parties to the claim), (ii) a person or body
      selected by the Board of Directors and (iii) if there has been a Change in
      Control, the special, independent counsel referred to in subsection 3(b)
      hereof. 

2.0
      INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES.   

      Subject
      to the limitations set forth herein and in Section 3 hereof, the Company hereby
      agrees to indemnify Indemnitee as follows: 

        (a)         Basic
      Indemnification.  The Company shall hold harmless and indemnify
      Indemnitee to the fullest extent authorized or permitted (i) by the General
      Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or any other applicable law, the
      Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws as in effect on the date
      hereof, or (Ii) by any amendment thereof or other statutory provisions
      authorizing or permitting such indemnification which is adopted after the date
      hereof. 

        (b)         Additional
      Indemnification.  Without limiting the generality of subsection (a)
      hereof, in the event Indemnitee was, is or becomes a Participant in a Claim
      by
      reason of (or arising in part out of) an lndemnifiable Event, the Company shall
      indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law, as soon as
      practicable after written demand is presented to the Company, against any and
      all Expenses and Losses. 

        (c)         Advancement
         of    Expenses.  In the event
      Indemnitee is, was or becomes a Participant in any Claim by reason of an
      Indemnifiable Event, if so requested by Indemnitee, the Company shall advance
      any and all such Expenses to Indemnitee. 

3.0
      GENERAL  LIMITATIONS ON INDEMNIFICATION.   

        (a)          Determination
      of     Reviewing    Party.
 Notwithstanding
      the foregoing, (i) the obligations of the Company set
      forth in Section 2 hereof (except with respect to Expense advances made prior
      to
      any determination by a Reviewing Party referred to below that Indemnitee
      substantively would not be permitted to be indemnified for Claims for
      Indemnifiable Events with respect to which such advances are being made) shall
      be subject to the condition that the Reviewing Party shall not have determined
      (in a written opinion, in any case in which the special, independent counsel
      referred to in subsection (b) hereof is involved) that Indemnitee would not
      be
      permitted to be so indemnified under applicable law, and (ii) if, when and
      to
      the extent that the Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee would not be
      permitted to be so indemnified under applicable law, the Company shall be
      entitled to be reimbursed by Indemnitee (who hereby agrees to reimburse the
      Company) for all such amounts theretofore paid (unless Indemnitee has commenced
      legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a determination
      that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law, in which event
      Indemnitee shall not be required to so reimburse the Company until a final
      judicial determination is made with respect thereto as to which all rights
      of
      appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed) and shall not be obligated
      to
      indemnify or advance any additional amounts to Indemnitee (unless there has
      been
      a determination by a court of competent jurisdiction that the Indemnitee would
      be permitted to be so indemnified under applicable law). 

If
      there
      has been no determination by the Reviewing Party or if the Reviewing Party
      determines that Indemnitee substantively would not be permitted to be
      indemnified in whole or in part under applicable law, Indemnitee shall have
      the
      right to commence litigation in any court in the States of Missouri or Delaware
      having subject matter jurisdiction thereof and in which venue is proper seeking
      an order or judgment by the court equivalent to the determination of the
      Reviewing Party or challenging any such determination by the Reviewing Party
      or
      any aspect thereof; any determination by the Reviewing Party otherwise shall
      be
      conclusive and binding on the Company and Indemnitee. 

(b)         Change
        in Control    of Company.   The Company agrees
        that if there is a Change in Control of the Company, then with respect to
        all
        matters thereafter arising concerning the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity
        payments and expense advances under this Agreement or any other agreements
        or
        Bylaws now or hereafter in effect relating to Claims for Indemnifiable Events,
        the Company shall seek legal advice only from special, independent counsel
        selected by Indemnitee and approved by the Company (which approval shall
        not be
        unreasonably withheld), and who has not otherwise performed services for
        the
        Company (other than in connection with such matters) or Indemnitee. In the
        event
        that Indemnitee and the Company are unable to agree on the selection of the
        special, independent counsel, such special independent counsel shall be selected
        by lot from among at least five law firms each in New York City, New York,
        the
        State of Delaware and St. Louis, Missouri, having more than fifty attorneys
        and
        having a rating of "av" or better in the then current Martindale-Hubbell
        Law
        Directory. Such selection shall be made in the presence of Indemnitee (and
        his
        legal counsel or either of them, as Indemnitee may elect). Such special,
        independent counsel, among other things, shall determine whether and to what
        extent the Indemnitee would be permitted to be indemnified under applicable
        law
        and shall render its written opinion to the Company and Indemnitee to such
        effect. 

The
      Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees of the special, independent counsel
      referred to above and to fully indemnify such counsel against any and all
      Expenses and Losses arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its
      engagement pursuant hereto. 

4.0
      INSURANCE.   

        (a)          Maintenance
          of     Existing
    Insurance.
  The
      Company represents that
      it presently has in place certain policies of directors' and officers' liability
      insurance of such insurance companies and in such amounts as set forth in
      Schedule A attached hereto. Subject only to the provisions within this Section
      4, the Company agrees that so long as the Indemnitee shall continue to serve
      as
      a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company, or shall
      continue at the request of the Company to serve as a director, officer,
      employee, trustee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership,
      joint
      venture, trust or other enterprise, and thereafter so long as the Indemnitee
      shall be subject to any possible claim or threatened, pending or completed
      action, suit or proceeding or any inquiry or investigation, whether civil,
      criminal or investigative, arising out of the Indemnitee's tenure as a director,
      officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company (such periods being
      hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Indemnification Period"), the Company
      will purchase and maintain in effect for the benefit of the Indemnitee one
      or
      more valid, binding and enforceable policy or policies of directors' and
      officers' liability insurance providing, in all respects, coverage both in
      scope
      and amount which is no less favorable than that presently provided pursuant
      to
      the policies set forth in Schedule A. 

        (b)          Limitations
      on Maintenance     of
    Insurance.     The
      Company shall not be required to maintain said policy or policies of directors'
      and officers' liability insurance as set forth in subsection (a) of this Section
      4 if such insurance is not reasonably available or if it is in good faith
      determined by the then directors of the Company either that (i) the premium
      cost
      of maintaining such insurance is substantially disproportionate to the amount
      of
      coverage provided thereunder or (ii) the protection provided by such insurance
      is so limited by exclusions, deductions or otherwise that there is insufficient
      benefit to war-rant the cost of maintaining such insurance policies. Anything
      in
      this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, to the extent that and for
      so
      long as the Company shall choose to continue to maintain any policy or policies
      of directors' and officers' liability insurance during the Indemnification
      Period, the Company shall be required to maintain similar and equivalent
      insurance policies for the benefit of the Indemnitee during the Indemnification
      Period (whether more or less favorable to Indemnitee than the Company's existing
      policies). 

(c)
      Additional     Indemnification
    in Lieu     of
          Insurance.   In the event (i) the Company
      shall discontinue any policy or policies of directors' and officers' liability
      insurance providing the coverages specified in subsection (a) of this Section
      4
      or limit in any way the coverages provided thereunder either in scope or amount,
      or (ii) such policies or the coverages provided thereunder become unavailable
      in
      whole or in part for any reason, the Company agrees to hold harmless and
      indemnify the Indemnitee for the remainder of the Indemnification Period to
      the
      full extent of the coverage which would otherwise have been provided for the
      benefit of the Indemnitee had such insurance policies specified in subsection
      (a) been maintained, unless the Indemnitee is otherwise protected by any
      insurance coverage maintained by the Company for the benefit of the Indemnitee
      in which event the indemnity provided by this subsection (c) shall be
      inapplicable to the extent, but only to the extent, of such
      coverage. 

5.0
      NO MODIFICATION.   

      No
      supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless
      executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the
      provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of
      any
      other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver
      constitute a continuing waiver. 

6.0
      SUBROGATION.   

      In
      the
      event of payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the
      extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who
      shall
      execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary to
      secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to
      enable the Company effectively to bring suit to enforce such
      rights. 

7.0
      REIMBURSEMENT.   

      The
      Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment in
      connection with any claim made against Indemnitee to the extent Indemnitee
      has
      otherwise actually received payment (under any insurance policy, Bylaw or
      otherwise) of the amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder. 

8.0
      EFFECTIVENESS.   

      This
      Agreement shall be of full force and effect immediately upon its execution;
       provided, however,  that the Board of Directors of the Company
      intends to place this Agreement before the Shareowners of the Company at the
      next annual meeting of Shareowners for ratification, and if Shareowners of
      the
      Company fail to ratify this Agreement at such meeting, the Company shall have
      the right in its sole discretion to terminate this Agreement. Upon any such
      termination this Agreement will be of no further force or effect. 

9.0
      NOTIFICATION AND DEFENSE OF CLAIM.   

          Promptly
      after receipt by
      Indemnitee of notice of the commencement of any action, suit or proceeding,
      Indemnitee will, if a Claim in respect thereof is to be made against the Company
      under this Agreement, notify the Company of the commencement thereof; but the
      omission so to notify the Company will not relieve it from any liability which
      it may have to Indemnitee otherwise than under this Agreement. With respect
      to
      any such action, suit or proceeding as to which Indemnitee notifies the Company
      of the commencement thereof: 

      (a)      the
      Company will be entitled to participate therein at its own expense;
      and 

      (b)      except
      as
      otherwise provided below, to the extent that it may wish, the Company jointly
      with any other indemnifying party similarly notified will be entitled to assume
      the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to Indemnitee. After notice
      from
      the Company to Indemnitee of its election to assume the defense thereof, the
      Company will not be liable to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any legal
      or
      other expenses subsequently incurred by Indemnitee in connection with the
      defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation or as otherwise
      provided below. Indemnitee shall have the right to employ its counsel in such
      action, suit or proceeding, but the fees and expenses of such counsel incurred
      after notice from the Company of its assumption of the defense thereof shall
      be
      at the expense of Indemnitee unless (i) the employment of counsel by Indemnitee
      has been authorized by the Company, (ii) Indemnitee shall have reasonably
      concluded that there may be a conflict of interest between the Company and
      the
      Indemnitee in the conduct of the defense of such action or (iii) the Company
      shall not in fact have employed counsel to assume the defense of such action,
      in
      each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense
      of
      the Company. The Company shall not be entitled to assume the defense of any
      action, suit or proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Company or as to
      which
      the Indemnitee shall have made the conclusion provided for in (ii)
      above. 

            (c)      the
      Company shall not be liable to indemnify the Indemnitee under this Agreement
      for
      any amounts paid in settlement of any action or claim effected without its
      writ-ten consent. The Company shall not settle any action or claim in any manner
      which would impose any penalty or limitation on the Indemnitee without the
      Indemnitee's written consent. Neither the Company nor the Indemnitee will
      unreasonably withhold their consent to any proposed settlement. 

10.0
      NON-EXCLUSIVITY.   

      The
      rights of the Indemnitee hereunder shall not be deemed exclusive of any other
      rights he may have under the Company's Bylaws or the Delaware General
      Corporation Law or otherwise, and to the extent that during the Indemnification
      Period the rights of the then existing directors and officers are more favorable
      to such directors or officers than the rights currently provided thereunder
      or
      under this agreement to Indemnitee, Indemnitee shall be entitled to the full
      benefits of such more favorable rights. 

11.0
      BINDING EFFECT.   

          This
      Agreement shall be
      binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties
      hereto and their respective successors, assigns, including any direct or
      indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or
      substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, spouses, heirs
      and personal and legal representatives. This Agreement shall continue in effect
      during the Indemnification Period, regardless of whether Indemnitee continues
      to
      serve as an officer or director of the Company or of any other enterprise at
      the
      Company s request. 

12.0
      SEVERABILITY.   

      The
      provisions of this Agreement shall be severable in the event that any provision
      hereof (including any provision within a single section, paragraph or sentence)
      is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise
      unenforceable, and the remaining provisions shall remain enforceable to the
      fullest extent permitted by law. 

13.0
      GOVERNING LAW.   

      This
      Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with
      the
      laws of the State of Delaware. 

14.0
      ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND TERMINATION.   

          This
      Agreement represents
      the entire agreement between the parties; and there are no other agreements,
      contracts or understandings between the parties with respect to the subject
      matter of this Agreement. No termination or cancellation of this Agreement
      (except by the Company pursuant to Section 8 hereof) shall be effective unless
      in writing and signed by both parties hereto. 

Executed
                this   
                   
                 day
                of  
               
                   , 

1986.  

SOUTHWESTERN
                BELL CORPORATION   

By        

Zane
              E. Barnes, Chairman and Chief Executive
              Officer  

By        

lndemnitee  

</EX-10.J>

<EX-10.K>
 6
 ex10k.htm
 ADMINISTRATIVE PLAN

ex10k.htm 

Exhibit
        10-k 

Effective
        January 1, 2008 

Administrative
        Plan 

The
        benefits under this Plan are offered by AT T Inc. ( AT T ) to persons
        who have been identified by AT T as executive officers under Rule 3b-7 of
        the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Executive Officers ). 

Administration
        of Plan . The Plan or the benefits hereunder may be modified or terminated by
        the Human Resources Committee in its sole discretion at any time. 

Except
        to
        the extent otherwise provided herein, the Vice President responsible for
        Human
        Resources (or the successor to such position) shall be the Administrator
        of the
        Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and apply its provisions
        in accordance with its terms.  The Administrator, in his or her sole
        discretion, may establish, adopt or revise rules, as he or she may deem
        necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, including the
        allocation or limitation of benefits. 

The
        Administrator may adopt another plan, not to exceed the benefits included
        herein, for the benefit of such other employees or former employees of Employers
        as the Administrator may determine in his or her sole discretion, on such
        terms
        and conditions as the Administrator shall determine.  The
        Administrator may, from time to time, revise the plan solely to increase
        the
        financial limits on benefits, not to exceed the corresponding proportional
        increase in the consumer price index from January 1, 2003, through the date
        of change. 

All
        decisions of the Administrator shall be final and binding unless the Board
        of
        Directors or its delegate should determine otherwise. 

No
        Employment Rights .  Nothing herein shall constitute a contract of
        continuing employment or in any manner obligate AT T or any Executive
        Officer to continue the employment relationship of, or obligate an Executive
        Officer to continue in the service of AT T or any Affiliate. 

Non-Transferability .  No
        recipient of benefits under this Plan nor any other person shall have any
        right
        to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber,
        transfer, hypothecate or convey any of the benefits hereunder, or any part
        thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be
        unassignable and non-transferable. 

Notice .  Any
        notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrator under the Plan
        shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by certified
        mail,
        to the principal office of AT T, directed to the attention of the Senior
        Executive Vice President-Human Resources.  Any notice required or
        permitted to be given to any other person shall be sufficient if in writing
        and
        hand delivered, or sent by certified mail, to the person at the person's
        last
        known mailing address as reflected on the records of his or her employing
        company.  Notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or,
        if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the
        receipt for certification. 

Validity .  In
        the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable,
        the
        same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
        provision of this plan. 

Applicable
        Law .  This Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with
        the laws of the State of Texas to the extent not preempted by the Employee
        Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder
        ("ERISA"). 

Automobile .  Each
        Executive Officer may receive the use of a four-door automobile or an automobile
        allowance and expenses associated with the operation of the
        automobile.  The Administrator shall determine the amount of the
        allowance for each Executive Officer provided that the allowance shall not
        exceed $2,000 per month. 

Communications .  Each
        Executive Officer may receive reasonable communications services including
        local, long distance, DSL, Internet, wireless, satellite television/video
        and
        related equipment. 

Financial
        Counseling.    Executive Officers may receive income tax
        preparation services and financial planning services from a list of designated
        providers not to exceed $14,000 per year. 

Estate
        Planning.    Executive Officers may receive estate planning
        documentation services not to exceed $10,000 per year. 

Clubs.     Executive
        Officers may receive initiation fees, dues, assessments and other charges
        for
        reasonable memberships as approved by the CEO or the Administrator, in each
        case
        in his or her sole discretion. AT T does not reimburse for dues, initiation
        fees or other expenses incurred in connection with a membership in a club
        that
        discriminates in its membership policies based on race, creed, gender or
        ethnic
        origin.  The Administrator shall report annually to the Human
        Resources Committee as to the usage of this benefit by the Chief Executive
        Officer and to the Chief Executive Officer on the usage by all other Executive
        Officers. 

Executive
        Protection .  Based upon the concern for the security of Executive
        Officers, the need to secure their optimum availability for business purposes
        and to permit uninterrupted communications between them, the Executive Officers
        are authorized to receive home security services, and, whenever feasible,
        to use
        AT T provided aircraft in connection with business travel and to use such
        aircraft for the personal travel of Executive Officers where the Chief Executive
        Officer, in his or her sole discretion, deems such use appropriate because
        of
        similar considerations. 

Retirement.    Upon
        the Retirement of an Executive Officer, he or she may receive up to an
        additional $20,000 of financial consulting reasonably in connection with
        and
        incurred within a reasonable time of his or her actual
        retirement.  After the Retirement of an Executive Officer he or she
        shall continue to receive the communications, financial counseling and estate
        planning benefits until his or her death.  After the death of an
        Executive Officer or Retired Executive Officer, his or her spouse shall receive
        the communications benefit for 6 billing cycles and shall receive the financial
        counseling and estate planning benefits for 2 years. 

Taxes.   Each
        recipient of benefits under this Plan shall receive an amount equal to that
        necessary to offset the Federal, state and local income taxes, as well as
        associated employment taxes, of the recipient (including taxes on tax
        reimbursements) resulting from the benefits in this Plan, other than (1)
        the
        monthly automobile allowance for Executive Officers; and (2) personal use
        of
        aircraft. 

</EX-10.K>

<EX-10.M>
 7
 ex10m.htm
 RETENTION AGREEMENT FOR RONALD SPEARS

ex10m.htm 

Exhibit
10-m 

February 17, 2006 

Ronald
Spears 

      767 5th
Avenue 

      New York,
NY   10153 

Re: 

Signing Bonus and
      Retention Award  

Dear
Ronald: 

Congratulations
on the successful closing of the merger between SBC Communications Inc. (now
known as AT T Inc.   AT T  ) and AT T Corp.
(  AT T Corp.  ) on
November 18, 2005 (the  Effective Date ).  The Company desires to
provide you with an incentive to remain employed with AT T and its
affiliates (together, as constituted from time to time, the  Group ).   This is your special
 Retention
Agreement  with   AT T Enterprise
Services, Inc.   (the   Company  ). 

1.        Special Signing
Bonus  

The
Company will pay you a special signing bonus of   $401,280   (your
  Special Signing
Bonus  ) as promptly as practicable after you sign and return this
Agreement. 

2.        Award  

(a)       Purpose.   Upon your
execution of this Agreement, you will receive a retention award in the form of
  71,555   phantom
stock units (your   Retention
Award  ).  Your Retention Award will be in addition to any other
compensation paid to you for your services. 

(b)       The Phantom Stock
Units.   Each phantom stock unit awarded to you under this
Agreement constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to pay
(or cause to be paid) to you on the applicable payment date the cash equivalent
of the fair market value of one share of AT T common stock, par value $1.00
(  AT T
Share  ).  For purposes of this Agreement, the   fair market value   of one
AT T Share will based on the average of the regular session per share
closing prices on the New York Stock Exchange for the five (5) consecutive
trading days ending on the day before the applicable vesting date or, if
applicable, your employment termination date. 

(c)       Dividend
Equivalents.   Each outstanding phantom stock unit awarded to
you under this Agreement also entitles you to receive, if and when made, an
amount in cash equal to any regular dividend payment made in respect of an
AT T Share.  Phantom stock units that are (i) vested and paid or
(ii) forfeited are immediately cancelled, and there shall be no further dividend
equivalents paid on such phantom stock units. 

(d)       Vesting.   You will
vest in your Retention Award in two installments.  One-third of your
phantom stock units will vest on November 18, 2006 (the   First Vesting Date  ) and the
remaining two-thirds will vest on November 18, 2008 (the   Second Vesting
Date  ). 

(e)       Certain Anti-Dilution
Adjustments.   In the event of any merger, reorganization,
consolidation, recapitalization, separation, liquidation, stock dividend,
split-up, share combination, or other change in the corporate structure of
AT T affecting the AT T Shares, an adjustment shall be made in the
number of the outstanding phantom stock units as determined to be appropriate
and equitable by AT T in its sole discretion .  

3.        Payment of Retention
Award  

(a)       Payment of Retention Award on
Vesting Dates.   As promptly as practicable after the First
Vesting Date, the Company will pay (or cause to be paid) to you in a cash
lump-sum the value of one-third of your Retention Award  provided  you are in the
employ of the Group on the First Vesting Date.  As promptly as
practicable after the Second Vesting Date, the Company will pay (or cause to be
paid) to you in a cash lump-sum the value of the remaining two-thirds of your
Retention Award  provided  you are in the
employ of the Group on the Second Vesting Date.  Upon each payment,
the applicable phantom stock units, and the right to receive dividend
equivalents thereon, are automatically cancelled. 

(b)       Treatment on Termination of
Employment Prior to November 18, 2008.   If your employment
terminates prior to November 18, 2008, you will be accorded the treatment as
indicated in the following chart depending on the event that results in your
termination of employment: 

(the remainder of this page is
intentionally left blank)  

2 

Event 

Treatment 

You
      Elect to Terminate Your Employment For ANY Reason On or After November 18,
      2006 and On or Before December 31, 2006 (the  Window Period ), and you
      Provide the Company a Termination Notice at Least Sixty (60) Days Prior to
      Your Termination Date 

In
      lieu of any compensation or benefits under this Agreement that has not
      already been paid to you prior to the date of your termination of
      employment, you shall receive (i) the compensation, benefits and treatment
      as if you were eligible under the terms and conditions of the change in
      control provisions of the  AT T Officer Separation
      Plan  (the  Separation Plan ) and (ii) any unpaid retention award
      granted to you from the Retention Bonus Pool as such term is defined in
      Section 6.8(f) of the Company Disclosure Letter delivered in connection
      with the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 30, 2005 among
      AT T Corp., SBC Communications Inc. and Tau Merger Sub Corporation, in
      both cases as if your employment was involuntarily terminated by the
      Company without Cause;  provided ,  however , any cash payment under
      the terms of such Separation Plan and/or the Retention Bonus Pool shall be
      reduced by the amount of your Special Signing Bonus and the dollar amount
      of your Retention Award previously paid to you under the terms of this
      Agreement, if any. 

The
      Company Terminates Your Employment Without Cause Prior to November 18,
      2007 

You
      Terminate Your Employment Without Good Reason (Except During the Window
      Period or Except as a Result of Your Death or Disability) 

You
      forfeit the entire unpaid portion of your Retention Award, and no further
      benefits or payments shall be made. 

The
      Company Terminates Your Employment for Cause 

You
      Terminate Your Employment for Good Reason (Except During the Window
      Period) 

The
      Company will pay (or cause to be paid) to you in a cash lump-sum the value
      equal to eighty percent (80%) of your Retention Award less the dollar
      amount of your Retention Award previously paid to you, if
      any.  Such payment shall be made as promptly as practicable
      after your employment termination date. 

The
      Company Terminates Your Employment Without Cause On or After November 18,
      2007 

The
      Company will pay (or cause to be paid) to you (or, in the event of your
      death, your estate) in a cash lump-sum the value equal to the product of
      (A) one hundred percent (100%) less the Reduction Percentage, times (B)
      your Retention Award, less the dollar amount of your Retention Award
      previously paid to you, if any.  The Reduction Percentage shall
      be twenty percent (20%) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which
      is 1,095 minus the number of days between November 18, 2005 and your
      termination date and the denominator of which is 1,095.  Such
      payment shall be made as promptly as practicable after your employment
      termination date. 

Termination
      of Employment Due to Your Death or
Disability 

3 

(c)       Release.   As a
condition to making any payment described in Section 3(b), the Company may
require you to execute and deliver a general release in which you release all
claims that you may have against any member of the Group and any of their
respective past or present officers, directors, employees or agents other than
your rights under this Agreement. 

(d)       Withholding.   Your
Special Signing Bonus and Retention Award are subject to withholding for
applicable income and payroll taxes or otherwise as required by
law. 

4.        Early Termination  

(a)       Termination
Notice.   If you wish to terminate your employment during the
Window Period or for Good Reason, or the Company wishes to terminate you for
Cause, the terminating party must provide a Termination Notice to the
other.  A   Termination  Notice   is a written notice
that states the specific provision of this Agreement on which termination is
based, including, if applicable, the specific clause of the definition of Good
Reason or Cause and a reasonably detailed description of the facts that permit
termination under that clause.  (The failure to include any fact in a
Termination Notice that contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause does
not preclude either party from asserting that fact in enforcing its rights under
this Agreement.) 

(b)       Termination on Disability or
Death.   If the Company determines in good faith that your
Disability has occurred, it may give you a Termination Notice.  If,
within 30 days of the Termination Notice, you do not return to full-time
performance of your responsibilities, your employment will terminate (the   Disability Effective
Date  ).  If you do return to full-time performance in that
30-day period, the Termination Notice will be cancelled.  Your
employment will terminate automatically on your death. 

(c)       Employment Termination
Date.   If your employment is terminated by the Company other
than for Disability or death or you terminate your employment for Good Reason,
your employment will end on the date specified in the Termination
Notice.  If you terminate your employment without Good Reason, your
employment will end 60 days after the Company receives the Termination Notice
(although the Company may in all events accelerate the end of your employment by
providing you with notice or, alternatively, may place you on paid leave during
such period).  If your employment is terminated by reason of your
death or Disability, your employment will end on the date of death or the
Disability Effective Date, as applicable. 

(d)       Effect of Early
Termination.   On termination of your employment in accordance
with this Section 4, your employment will end and the Group will have no further
obligations to you under this Agreement except as provided in Sections 3 and
5. 

5.        Excise Tax  

If any
element of your Special Signing Bonus or your Retention Award constitutes an
 excess parachute payment , as that term is defined in Section 280G of the
Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder, you shall be provided the
gross-up benefits set forth in Annex A. 

4 

6.        Effect on Other AT T Corp.
Agreements  

(a)        Prior Employment and/or Retention
Agreements and Severance Rights.      Except as provided in Section 3(b) of
this Agreement and except for any retention award granted to you from the
Retention Bonus Pool as such term is defined in Section 6.8(f) of the Company
Disclosure Letter delivered in connection with the Agreement and Plan of Merger
dated as of January 30, 2005 among AT T Corp., SBC Communications Inc. and
Tau Merger Sub Corporation, this Agreement will supersede any earlier employment
agreement, separation plan or understanding and any earlier severance,
change-in-control or similar rights you may have with AT T Corp. or any of
its affiliates and you agree that you are not entitled to any severance,
change-in-control or similar rights under any such agreement, plan or
understanding (including, without limitation, the AT T Senior Officer
Separation Plan, the AT T Officer Separation Plan, the AT T E-Band
Separation Plan and the AT T Separation Plan).  

(b)        Entire Agreement. 
   This
Agreement is the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to
the matters contemplated by this Agreement and supersedes any earlier agreement,
written or oral, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement,
including, but not limited to, any agreement to extend the period during which
you could claim  Good Reason  under your Separation Plan.  In entering
into this Agreement, no party has relied on or made any representation,
warranty, inducement, promise or understanding that is not in this
Agreement. 

7.        Certain
Obligations  

(a)       Violation Of the Group s Code Of
Conduct Or the Group s Non-Competition
Guideline.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, if it is determined by the Company that you have willfully violated
the Group's Code of Conduct or any other written Group policy, where said
violation causes significant harm to the Group, and/or violated the AT T
Corp. Non-Competition Guideline (the   Guideline  ), attached hereto
and incorporated herein as Annex C, you will be required to repay to the Company
an amount equal to the economic value of all benefits already provided to you
under this Agreement and you shall forfeit all unpaid benefits under this
Agreement. 

(b)       Future
Services.   You shall have a continuing obligation to cooperate
with the Company on a commercially reasonable basis, in any matter, and to
testify in any legal proceeding in which the Company is a party, in each case
relating to, or in connection with, your duties and responsibilities while you
were employed by the Company. 

8.        Disputes  

You agree
to the dispute resolution provisions, including mandatory arbitration, set forth
on  Annex B,  which is a
part of this Agreement. 

9.        General
Provisions  

(a)       Confidentiality .  Except
as required by law or regulation, you will not disclose the terms of your
Special Signing Bonus, Retention Award or this Agreement,  provided  that you may
disclose such terms to your financial and legal advisors and spouse, each of
whom shall be instructed to maintain the terms of your Special Signing Bonus,
Retention Award and this Agreement in strict confidence in accordance with the
terms hereof. 

5 

(b)        Definitions.  When used in
this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
below:  

Good Reason   means (A) any
reduction in your annual base salary rate or (B) any reduction in your target
annual bonus, in each case as in effect immediately prior to the Effective
Date.   However , (A) Good Reason will
not include any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure by the Company
that is not in bad faith and is cured promptly on your giving the Company
notice, (B) if you do not give a Termination Notice to the Company within 60
days after you have knowledge that an event constituting Good Reason has
occurred, the event will no longer constitute Good Reason, and (C) an event will
not constitute Good Reason if you have consented to it in accordance with
Section 9(c). 

Cause   means (A) commission
of a crime, or conviction of a crime, including by a plea of guilty or  nolo  contendere , involving theft,
fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude, (B) intentional or grossly negligent
disclosure of confidential or trade secret information of the Group to anyone
not entitled to such information, which causes significant harm to the Group,
(C) gross omission or gross dereliction of any statutory or common law duty of
loyalty to the Group, which causes significant harm to the Group, or (D) willful
violation of the Group's Code of Conduct or any other written Group policy,
where said violation causes significant harm to the Group. 

Disability   means your
absence from work under the relevant employer sponsored group long-term
disability plan applicable to you. 

(c)    Notices.     All
notices, requests, demands, consents and other communications under this
Agreement must be in writing and will be deemed given  (1)  on the business day sent,
when delivered by hand or facsimile transmission (with confirmation) during
normal business hours,  (2) 
on the business day after the business day sent, if delivered by a nationally
recognized overnight courier or  (3)  on the third business day
after the business day sent if delivered by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, in each case to the following address or number (or to such
other addresses or numbers as may be specified by notice that conforms to this
Section   9(c)   ):  

If to
you, to the address stated on the first page of this Agreement, and 

If to the
Company or any other member of the Group, to: 

Vice
President-Compensation 

      175 East
Houston Street, Room 03-H-60 

      San
Antonio, Texas 78205 

(d)        Not a Contract of Employment.
   You and
the Company acknowledge that this Agreement does not constitute a contract of
employment and your employment with the Company is  at will  and may be
terminated by you or the Company at any time and for any reason.  Your
Retention Award and other benefits under this Agreement shall not count toward
or be considered in determining payments or benefits due under any other plan,
program, policy or arrangement with the Group. 

(e)        Successors.  

6 

(1)      This
Agreement is personal to you and without the prior written consent of the
Company shall not be assignable by you otherwise than by will or the laws of
descent and distribution.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit
of and be enforceable by your legal representatives. 

(2)      This
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its
successors and assigns. 

(3)      The
Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase,
merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business
and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this
Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be
required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.  As used
in this Agreement,   Company   shall mean the
Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets
as aforesaid. 

(f)       Amendments and
Waivers.   Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or
waived but only if the amendment or waiver is in writing and signed, in the case
of an amendment, by you and the Company or, in the case of a waiver, by the
party that would have benefited from the provision waived. 

(g)       Counterparts.   This
Agreement may be executed as counterparts, each of which will constitute an
original and all of which, when taken together, will constitute one
agreement. 

*                      *                      * 

Please
confirm your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement by signing where
indicated below. 

Karen
      E. Jennings  

Executive
      Vice President-Human Resources  

AT T
      Enterprise Services, Inc.  

Accepted
and Agreed this ____ day of _______________, 200__: 

Ronald
      Spears  

Vice
      President-Signature Client Group  

7 

Annex A   

       Excise Tax  

(a)           If
any element of the Retention Award or other compensation or benefit provided to
you under the terms of this Agreement, or under any other plan, program, policy
or other arrangement (  Benefit  ), either alone or in
combination with other elements of compensation and benefits paid or provided to
you, constitutes an  excess parachute payment , as that term is defined in
Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder, and
subjects you to the excise tax pursuant to Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue
Code, and any interest and penalties thereon (collectively, the   Excise Tax  ), then you shall
be entitled to an additional lump-sum cash payment from the Company (the   Excise Tax Adjustment
Payment  ), subject to mandatory withholding, in an amount equal to the
Excise Taxes (including the Excise Tax attributable to the Excise Tax Adjustment
Payment related to the Benefit) plus any income and FICA taxes and any interest
and penalties thereon attributable to the Excise Tax Adjustment Payment. For
purposes of calculating an Excise Tax Adjustment Payment in any year, it shall
be assumed that you are subject to Federal and applicable state and local income
taxes at the highest marginal Federal and applicable state and local income tax
rates, respectively, for the year in which the Excise Tax Adjustment Payment is
paid.  Also, the Excise Tax Adjustment Payment to you shall reflect
the Federal tax benefits attributable to the deduction of applicable state and
local income taxes. 

(b)           Subject
to the provisions of (c) below, all determinations required to be made under
this Annex, including whether and when an Excise Tax Adjustment Payment is
required and the amount of such Excise Tax Adjustment Payment and the
assumptions utilized in arriving at such determinations, shall be made by an
independent accounting firm chosen by the Company (the   Accounting
Firm  ).  The Accounting Firm shall provide detailed supporting
calculations to the Company and to you within thirty (30) business days of the
receipt of notice from the Company or you that there has been a Benefit provided
to which this Annex applies (or such earlier time as requested by the
Company).  Any Excise Tax Adjustment Payment, as determined pursuant
to this Section (b), shall be paid by the Company to you within fifteen (15)
business days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm's
determination. 

(c)           Underpayments
and Overpayments. 

(1)           If
it is established pursuant to a final determination of a court or an Internal
Revenue Service proceeding, or in the opinion of independent counsel agreed upon
by the Company and you, that the Excise Tax payable by you on the Benefit is
less than the amount initially taken into account under Section (a) for purposes
of calculating the Excise Tax Adjustment Payment related to such Benefit, the
Accounting Firm shall recalculate the Excise Tax Adjustment Payment to reflect
the actual Excise Tax related to such Benefit.  Within thirty (30)
business days following your receipt of notice of the results of such
recalculation from the Accounting Firm and/or the Company, you shall repay to
the Company the excess of the initial Excise Tax Adjustment Payment over the
recalculated Excise Tax Adjustment Payment. 

(2)           If
it is established pursuant to a final determination of a court or an Internal
Revenue Service proceeding, or in the opinion of an independent counsel agreed
upon by the Company and you, that the Excise Tax payable by you on the Benefit
is more than the amount initially taken into account under Section (a) for
purposes of calculating the Excise Tax Adjustment Payment, the Accounting Firm
shall recalculate the Excise Tax Adjustment Payment to reflect the actual Excise
Tax.  Within fifteen (15) business days following the Company's
receipt of notice of the results of such recalculation from the Accounting Firm,
the Company shall pay to you the excess of the recalculated Excise Tax
Adjustment Payment over the initial Excise Tax Adjustment Payment. 

(d)           All
fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the
Company. 

(e)           You
shall notify the Company in writing of any written claim by the Internal Revenue
Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of an
Excise Tax Adjustment Payment or the recalculation of an Excise Tax Adjustment
Payment. The notification shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim,
including (1) a copy of the written claim from the Internal Revenue Service, (2)
the identification of the element of compensation and/or benefit that is the
subject of such Internal Revenue Service claim, and (3) the date on which such
claim is requested to be paid.  Such notification shall be given as
soon as practicable but no later than ten (10) business days after you actually
receive notice in writing of such claim. 

Within
ten (10) business days following receipt of the notification of the Internal
Revenue Service written claim from you, the Company shall pay to you an Excise
Tax Adjustment Payment, or the excess of a recalculated Excise Tax Adjustment
Payment over the initial Excise Tax Adjustment Payment, as applicable, related
to the element of compensation and/or benefit which is the subject of the
Internal Revenue Service claim. Within ten (10) business days following such
payment to you, you shall provide to the Company written evidence that you have
paid the claim to the Internal Revenue Service (the United States
Treasury). 

Your
failure to properly notify the Company of the Internal Revenue Service claim (or
to provide any required information with respect thereto) shall not affect any
rights granted to you under this Annex, except to the extent that the Company is
materially prejudiced in the challenge to such claim as a direct result of such
failure.  If the Company notifies you in writing, within sixty (60)
business days following receipt from you of notification of the Internal Revenue
Service claim, that it desires to contest such claim, you shall: 

(1)           give
the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such
claim; 

(2)           take
such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall
reasonably request in writing from time to time including, without limitation,
accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney
selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to you; 

(3)           cooperate
with the Company in good faith in order to effectively contest such claim;
and 

(4)           permit
the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim if the
Company elects not to assume and control the defense of such claim; provided,
however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses
(including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such
contest and shall indemnify and hold you harmless, on an after-tax basis, for
any Excise Tax, income tax and FICA tax (including interest and penalties with
respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs
and expenses.  Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this
Annex, the Company shall have the right, at its sole option, to assume the
control of all proceedings in connection with such contest, in which case it may
pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and
conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim, and may direct
you to sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and you
agree to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative
tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate
courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, that any extension of the
statute of limitations relating to payment of tax for your taxable year with
respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to
such contested amount.  Furthermore, the Company's rights to assume
the control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which an
Excise Tax Adjustment Payment would be payable hereunder, and you shall be
entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the
Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.  To the extent
that the contest to the Internal Revenue Service claim is successful, the Excise
Tax Adjustment Payment related to the element of compensation and/or benefit
that was the subject of the claim shall be recalculated in accordance with the
provisions of Section (c)(ii). 

Annex B   

       Disputes.  

(a)        Employment Matter. 
   This
Annex B applies to any controversy or claim between you and the Group arising
out of or relating to or concerning this Agreement or any aspect of your
employment with the Group or the termination of that employment (together, an
  Employment
Matter  ). 

(b)          Mandatory Arbitration. 
     Subject to the provisions of this
Annex B, any Employment Matter will be finally settled by arbitration in Bexar
County, Texas administered by the American Arbitration Association under its
Commercial Arbitration Rules then in effect.   However, the
rules will be modified in the following ways:  (1)  each arbitrator will agree
to treat as confidential evidence and other information presented to the same
extent as the information is required to be kept confidential under Annex B,
 (2)  the optional Rules for
Emergency Measures of Protections will apply,  (3)  you and the Group agree not
to request any amendment or modification to the terms of this Agreement except
as provided in Section (c),  (4)  a decision must be rendered
within 10 business days of the parties  closing statements or submission of
post-hearing briefs and  (5)  the arbitration will be
conducted before a panel of three arbitrators, one selected by you within 10
days of the commencement of arbitration, one selected by the Company in the same
period and the third selected jointly by these arbitrators (or, if they are
unable to agree on an arbitrator within 30 days of the commencement of
arbitration, the third arbitrator will be appointed by the American Arbitration
Association;  provided 
that the arbitrator shall be a partner or former partner at a nationally
recognized law firm). 

(c)          Limitation on Damages. 
     You and the Group agree that there
will be no punitive damages payable as a result of any Employment Matter and
agree not to request punitive damages.  

(d)        Injunctions and Enforcement of
Arbitration Awards.     You or
the Group may bring an action or special proceeding in a state or federal court
of competent jurisdiction sitting in Bexar County, Texas to enforce any
arbitration award under Section (b).  Also, the Group may bring such
an action or proceeding, in addition to its rights under Section (b) and whether
or not an arbitration proceeding has been or is ever initiated, to temporarily,
preliminarily or permanently enforce any part of Annex B. 

(e)          Jurisdiction and Choice of
Forum.       You and the Group irrevocably submit
to the exclusive jurisdiction of any state or federal court located in Bexar
County, Texas (the     Forum    ) over any Employment Matter that is
not otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to Section
(b).   This includes any action or proceeding to compel
arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award.  Both you and the
Group  (1)  acknowledge that
the Forum has a reasonable relation to this Agreement and to the relationship
between you and the Group and that the submission to the Forum will apply even
if the forum chooses to apply non-Forum law,  (2)  waive, to the extent
permitted by law, any objection to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of
venue of any action or proceeding covered by this Section (e) in the Forum,
 (3)  agree not to commence
any such action or proceeding in any forum other than the Forum and  (4)  agree that, to the extent
permitted by law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such action or
proceeding in any such court will be conclusive and binding on you and the
Group.  However, nothing in this Agreement precludes you or the Group
from bringing any action or proceeding in any court for the purpose of enforcing
the provisions of Section (b) and this Section (e). 

(f)          Waiver of Jury Trial. 
     To the extent permitted by law, you
and the Group waive any and all rights to a jury trial with respect to any
Employment Matter.  

(g)          Governing Law. 
     This Agreement will be governed by
and construed in accordance with the law of the State of Texas applicable to
contracts made and to be performed entirely within that
State.  

AT T Non-Competition
Guideline  

       (as amended December 17, 1997, May
19, 2004, and October 5, 2005)  

SECTION 1.  STATEMENT OF
PURPOSE  

The
purpose of this AT T Non-Competition Guideline is to provide a common set of
definitions and set forth the standards for evaluating activity in possible
violation of the non-competition clauses contained in various AT T employee
incentive compensation and benefit plans, and in individual agreements or
arrangements. 

SECTION
2.  DEFINITIONS  

As used in this AT T
Non-Competition Guideline the following terms have the meanings set forth
below: 

1.           The
word "Guideline" means this AT T Non-Competition Guideline. 

2.           The
words "AT T" or "Company" means collectively AT T Corp., a New York
corporation, all of its subsidiaries, related entities, lines of business and
corporate successors and all business enterprises, including joint ventures, in
which it is a partner or has a substantial ownership interest. 

3.           The
term "Board of Directors" or "Board" means the Board of Directors of AT T
Corp. 

4.           The
word "Plan" means any AT T employee incentive compensation and/or benefit
plan that contains a non-competition clause, including but not limited to the
AT T 1987, 1997, and 2004 Long Term Incentive Programs, the AT T Short
Term Incentive Plan ,  the
AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan, the AT T Senior Management Universal
Life Insurance Program, the Executive Life Insurance Program, the AT T
Senior Management Basic and Individual Life Insurance Programs and the AT T
Supplementary Variable Universal Life Insurance Program, the AT T Senior
Management Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan, the AT T
Mid-Career Pension Plan, the AT T Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral
Plan and any other employee incentive compensation and/or employee benefit plan
that the Board or the Executive Vice President-Human Resources   shall deem appropriate
to make subject to the standards of this Guideline.  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Guideline or in the AT T 1997
Long Term Incentive Program, the 1997 All Employee Stock Option Grant shall not
be forfeitable in the event an employee holding such grant engages in activity
deemed to be in competition with or adverse to the interests of the
Company. 

5.           The
word "Agreement" means any individual agreement or arrangement between AT T
and any current or former employee which incorporates or references this
Guideline or which contains a non-competition clause. 

6.           The
word "benefit" means any payment or entitlement to payment conferred pursuant to
the terms of any or all of the Plans or Agreements, regardless of how, when or
in what form it is made or intended to be made. 

7.           The
term "affected employee" shall mean an individual who, as a former or present
employee, has received, is receiving or would be eligible to receive benefits or
payments under any Plan or Agreement. 

8.           The
phrase "non-competition clause" means any provision, paragraph, division or
portion of a Plan or Agreement which states in words or substance that an
affected employee will forfeit and relinquish entitlement to compensation and/or
benefits under such Plan or Agreement, or that such compensation or benefits
shall be reduced or otherwise modified, if such employee engages in activity
deemed to be in competition with or adverse to the interests of the
Company. 

9.           The
use in this Guideline of personal pronouns of the masculine gender is intended
to include both the masculine and feminine genders.  The use in this
Guideline of singular or plural nouns is intended to have individual or
collective meaning as applicable to the context as used therein and is in no way
to be construed narrowly or such as to limit the scope of this Guideline or any
of its provisions. 

SECTION
3.  RESPONSIBILITY  

Responsibility for interpreting and
implementing the standards and provisions of this Guideline is vested solely and
exclusively in the Executive Vice President-Human Resources of the Company, or
his/her successor, who is empowered to perform all functions necessary or
appropriate to fulfill his responsibilities in connection with the forfeiture of
compensation and/or benefits, making final determination that certain activity
is or is not competitive activity and that the compensation and/or benefits of
the affected employee who engages in such activity are or are not forfeited,
reduced or otherwise modified by such activity, respectively; and acting on the
Company's behalf and in its best interests in all matters relating to the issues
covered by this Guideline.  Notwithstanding the above the Executive
Vice President - Human Resources shall be authorized to delegate to other
Company employees the authority to perform such activities as may be appropriate
in connection with his implementation of the provisions of this Guideline,
including taking of such legal steps as are necessary to recover compensation
and/or benefits paid to an affected employee since the date on which he
commenced engaging in activity deemed to be competitive activity. 

SECTION 4.  COMPETITIVE
ACTIVITY  

1.            Finality .  The
Executive Vice President - Human Resources of the Company shall have authority
to interpret the provisions of this Guideline consistent with their spirit and
intent and to interpret the non-competition clause of any Plan or Agreement, and
each and every decision of the Executive Vice President - Human Resources shall,
with respect to all questions and matters relative to the subjects of forfeiture
and competition, be final; except, however, with respect to any award
outstanding under the AT T 2004 Long Term Incentive Program.  The
Executive Vice President   Human Resources shall present his recommendation to
the Compensation and Employee Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (the
 Committee ) for any action related to the forfeiture of such
awards.  The Committee shall then have final authority to cancel and
forfeit such awards. 

2.            Definition .  For
purposes of this Guideline and the non-competition clauses contained in any Plan
or Agreement, an affected employee's activity is competitive activity (and any
or all of his compensation and/or benefits under the Plans or Agreements are
subject to forfeiture, reduction or other modification to the fullest extent
allowable by law), if such affected employee, during, or within 2 years after
the termination of, his employment with the Company, as more fully described
below, either (A) establishes a relationship with a competitor of the Company,
or, (B) engages in activity which is in conflict with or adverse to the
interests of the Company. 

a.           As
used above in Paragraph 2 of this Section 4, the phrase "establishes a
relationship with" shall mean, but shall not be limited to, founding,
organizing, establishing, becoming associated with, becoming employed by,
rendering services to, consulting or acting as consultant to, serving as
director for, being a partner in or owning a substantial interest in, as
shareholder or otherwise, such an interest to include, but not be limited to,
for example, an interest subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

b.           As
used above in Paragraph 2 of this Section 4, a "competitor of the
Company" is a person, business, entity or enterprise which either (A) designs,
develops, manufactures, produces, offers for sale or sells a product or service
which can be used as a substitute for, performs substantially the same function
as, is a practical alternative for or is generally intended to satisfy the same
customer or client needs for any product or service designed, developed,
manufactured, produced, offered for sale or sold by the Company, or (B) is a
person, business or activity which the Executive Vice President-Human Resources,
based upon review of the individual facts and circumstances and in its
discretion and judgment, determines, in order to protect the best interests of
the Company, to be a competitor within the spirit and intent of this Guideline
and the non-competition clauses.  Effective upon the close of the
merger between AT T Corp. and SBC, the definition of a  competitor of the
Company  as used above in Paragraph 2 of this Section 4 shall mean a company, if
at least 10% of the aggregate revenue of such company for the fiscal year
preceding the year in which the employee ceases to be employed by AT T is
derived from the provision of telecommunications products or services that
directly compete with telecommunications products or services provided or sold
by AT T (without giving effect to the merger) as of the time the employee
ceases to be employed by AT T. 

Thereafter,
and notwithstanding any provision of any plan, program, policy, agreement or
arrangement of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to the contrary, the
restrictions set forth in this Guideline on establishing a relationship with a
competitor of the Company shall not apply to any employee or former employee of
the company or any of its Subsidiaries with a salary grade of D band or
lower. 

c.           As
used above in Paragraph 2 of the Section 4, conduct "in conflict with
or adverse to the interests of the Company" is conduct by which (1) an
affected employee criticizes, denigrates or otherwise speaks adversely, or
disclose negative information about, the operations, management or performance
of the Company, an affiliate of the Company, or about any director, officer,
employee or agent of any of the foregoing; or (2) an affected employee,
engages in the recruitment, solicitation or inducement of, or attempts to
induce, any employee or employees of the Company to terminate their employment
with, or otherwise cease their relationship with, the Company. 

SECTION 5.  EVALUATION AND
DETERMINATION OF COMPETITIVE ACTIVITY  

1.            Request for a
Determination .  An affected employee who is considering
engaging in an activity which an individual would reasonably believe to be
competitive activity as that term is used and defined in this Guideline and
which thus may be grounds for the Company's invoking the non-competition clause
of any Plan or Agreement may request, prior to engaging in such activity, that
it be evaluated as described in this Section 5 of the Guideline and that a
determination be made and an opinion rendered as to whether such activity is
deemed to violate such non-competition clauses.  Such affected
employee's request may be made to the Executive Vice President - Human
Resources, or such other Company employee as may be selected by the Executive
Vice President - Human Resources who will coordinate evaluation of the
activity.  To insure that the evaluation and determination are based
on all relevant facts and circumstances and thus are consistent with the spirit
and intent of this Guideline, such affected employee should accompany his
request with a full explanation in writing of whatever information he deems
pertinent as well as of a description of the contemplated activity, such
explanation to include, but not to be limited to, (A) his contemplated
relationship, including, as applicable, his proposed position, title,
responsibilities and the nature and extent of his ownership interest, (B) the
nature of the business, including, for example, all products and/or services
currently being or expected to be designed, developed, manufactured, produced,
offered for sale and sold by the business and (C) the most recently available
financial information on the business. 

2.            Company's Right to Initiate
an Evaluation .  The Company reserves the right to initiate an
evaluation of any activity of an affected employee which may be competitive
activity as that phrase is used and defined in this Guideline.  The
Executive Vice President - Human Resources of the Company shall notify the
affected employee in writing that such an evaluation has been initiated and that
he has the opportunity to submit in writing for consideration whatever
information he deems pertinent to a determination, including, but not limited
to, a full explanation of the activity as described above in items (A) through
(C), inclusive, of Paragraph 1 of this Section 5. 

3.            Evaluation .  Whether
an affected employee's contemplated or actual activity is or is not competitive
activity within the scope and intent of this Guideline shall be evaluated by the
Executive Vice President - Human Resources or such individuals as such officer
may designate as appropriate. 

4.            Determination .  Final
determination of whether an affected employee's activity is or is not
competitive activity and thus whether his incentive compensation and/or benefits
are or are not, respectively, subject to forfeiture shall be made by the
Executive Vice President - Human Resources; except, however, with respect to any
award outstanding under the AT T 2004 Long Term Incentive
Program.  The Executive Vice President   Human Resources shall present
his recommendation to the Compensation and Employee Benefits Committee of the
Board of Directors (the  Committee ) for any action related to the forfeiture of
such awards.  The Committee shall then have final authority to cancel
and forfeit such awards.  After such determination, the Executive Vice
President - Human Resources, shall notify the affected employee in writing of
the decision.  If the determination is that an affected employee's
activity is not or would not be competitive activity, the Company reserves the
right to seek, at whatever intervals it deems appropriate, written assurance
from the affected employee that the facts and circumstances upon which the
activity was evaluated and the determination based have not
changed. 

5.            Notice of
Forfeiture .  If, after activity has been evaluated the
Executive Vice President - Human Resources determines that contemplated activity
 would   be  competitive
activity, the Executive Vice President - Human Resources, will notify the
affected employee in writing of the determination and advise such affected
employee that his incentive compensation and/or benefits are at risk of
forfeiture, reduction or other modification.  An affected employee who
receives such notice and advice shall, within thirty business days of the date
of such notice and advice, provide the Company with written assurance that he
has not engaged and will not engage in such contemplated
activity.  If, after the expiration of the thirty business day period,
the Executive Vice President - Human Resources, has not received such assurance,
he shall notify the appropriate Payroll and Benefit organizations to terminate
immediately or not to initiate payments of incentive compensation and/or
benefits to the affected employee.  If the determination is that an
affected employee is currently engaging in competitive activity, the Executive
Vice President - Human Resources, shall so advise the affected employee, and
shall also direct the appropriate Payroll, Benefit and other affected
organizations of the Company to terminate immediately payments of benefits to
the affected employee and, in addition, may take such legal steps as are
necessary to recover from the affected employee all benefits paid by the Company
or on its behalf since the date when such competitive activity is deemed to have
commenced. 

6.            Opportunity to
Withdraw .  If, after activity has been evaluated and the
Executive Vice President-Human Resources determines that there are unusual or
special circumstances which mitigate against withdrawal of benefits from or
denial of benefits to an affected employee who is or has been engaging in
activity which is competitive activity within the spirit and intent of this
Guideline and the non-competition clauses, the Executive Vice President - Human
Resources may, in his discretion and judgment, withhold termination of benefits
and offer the affected employee in writing the opportunity to withdraw from the
competitive activity; provided, however, that any affected employee who is the
recipient of and accepts such an offer shall provide the Executive Vice
President - Human Resources, within a reasonable time of the date of such offer
as prescribed by such officer, written assurance that such withdrawal has been
accomplished. 

7.            Reevaluation and
Determination .  Notwithstanding prior evaluations and
regardless of a previous determination by the Executive Vice President - Human
Resources as described in this Guideline, the Company reserves the right,
without prior notice to the affected employee, to institute a reevaluation of
his activity if, in his discretion and judgment, the Executive Vice President -
Human Resources believes that under the facts and circumstances such
reevaluation is warranted.  In case of such reevaluation, the affected
employee shall be notified by the Executive Vice President - Human Resources,
that such reevaluation has been instituted and shall have   the
opportunity to submit in writing for consideration by the Executive Vice
President - Human Resources a full explanation of whatever information he deems
pertinent to the redetermination, such explanation to include, but not to be
limited to, a full explanation of the activity as described above in items (A)
through (C), inclusive, of Paragraph 1 of this
Section 5.  After such reevaluation, there shall be a
determination consistent with that described above in Paragraph 4 of this
Section 5. 

8.            Subsequent Competitive
Activity .  If an affected employee commences engaging in
activity which is not at the time of commencement considered competitive
activity as that phrase is used and defined in this Guideline but within a
reasonable period of time thereafter (such period, under ordinary circumstances
and unless the Executive Vice President - Human Resources determines otherwise,
to be two years) the activity becomes competitive activity as that phrase is
used and defined in this Guideline, then the affected employee so engaging in
such competitive activity should advise the Executive Vice President - Human
Resources.  Upon receipt of such advice, the Executive Vice President
- - Human Resources, shall then offer such affected employee the opportunity to
withdraw without forfeiture of benefits under the terms of and consistent with
the provisions of such an opportunity as described in Paragraph 6 of this
Section 5.  If an affected employee engages in subsequent
competitive activity in a situation such as that described in the first sentence
of this Paragraph 8 of this Section 5 but such affected employee fails
to come forward and so advise the Company, then, notwithstanding anything herein
to the contrary, after evaluation or reevaluation and determination as described
above, benefits to such affected employee shall be immediately terminated and
the Company may take such steps as are necessary to recover any benefits paid
since the date on which such activity became competitive.  If an
affected employee commences engaging in activity which is not at the time of
commencement competitive with AT T as that phrase is used and defined in
this Guideline but, subsequent thereto, AT T designs, develops,
manufactures, produces, offers for sale or sells a product or service such as to
render the activity competitive, no question of forfeiture arises; provided,
however, that, if the affected employee, knew or had reason to know at the time
he commenced the activity that AT T intended to design, develop,
manufacture, produce, offers for sale or sell such product or service, then the
Company may invoke the non-competition clauses. 

9.            Consent to
Compete .  In extraordinary circumstances and notwithstanding
that an affected employee's competitive activity would, under the provisions of
the Guideline, be grounds for invoking the non-competition clauses and
terminating payment of incentive compensation and/or benefits to such affected
employee, the Executive Vice President-Human Resources may consent to an
affected employee's engaging in such activity if, in his discretion and
judgment, he determines that, despite such activity's technical violation, the
facts are overwhelmingly compelling or it is otherwise in the Company's best
interest that relief from application of the non-competition clauses is
warranted.  In such a case, the Executive Vice President - Human
Resources, shall notify the affected employee of such consent; provided,
however, that, despite such consent, the Company reserves the right to withdraw
such   consent and to invoke the non-competition clauses within a
reasonable period of time thereafter (such period, under ordinary circumstances
and unless the Executive Vice President - Human Resources determines otherwise,
to be two years) and without prior notice if and when, in such officer's
discretion and judgment, the facts and circumstances
warrant it. 

10.            Waiver .  In
his discretion, the Executive Vice President-Human Resources   may waive the
operation of this Guideline, in whole or part, as to an affected employee,
including under circumstances where such affected employee has executed a
non-competition agreement with the Company. 

SECTION 6.  GENERAL
PROVISIONS  

1.            Amendment .  Except
as provided in Paragraph 2 of this Section 6, only the Board or the Committee
shall have authority to amend or terminate this Guideline. 

2.            Guideline
Modifications .  The Executive Vice President - Human Resources,
in his discretion and judgment and without notice, may from time to time make
such minor changes in the Guideline as he deems required by law, by
administrative efficiency, by the introduction, or modification of any Plan or
Agreement or by changes in the Company structure. 

3.            Severability .  To
the extent that one or more of the provisions of this Guideline may be found to
be unenforceable in any federal or state jurisdiction, such provisions are
intended and are declared to be severable from the whole, and such a judgment
shall not jeopardize the enforceability of the balance of the
Guideline. 

4.            No Intent to Prejudice
Employee s Rights .  This Guideline is intended to protect the
interest of the Company and its shareholders and is not intended to prejudice
any individual's right to consider, accept, continue or terminate employment, to
engage in any activity or to establish any kind of business relationship or
ownership interest with any enterprise which is consistent with the terms of
this Guideline. 

</EX-10.M>

<EX-10.P>
 9
 ex10p.htm
 PTG DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

ex10p.htm 

Exhibit
      10-p  

PACIFIC
      TELESIS GROUP  

DEFERRED
      COMPENSATION PLAN  

       FOR  

       NON-EMPLOYEE
      DIRECTORS  

(Restated
      as Amended as of November 17, 1995)  

PAGE  

ELIGIBILITY
      1 

1.      ELIGIBILITY 

Each
      member of the Board of Directors of Pacific Telesis Group ("PTG" or the
      "Company") who is not an employee of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries,
      is
      eligible to participate in a Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
      Directors ("Plan"). 

2.      PARTICIPATION 

(a)      Prior
      to
      the beginning of any calendar year, commencing with the calendar year 1985,
      each
      eligible Director or designated Director may elect to participate in the Plan
      by
      directing that all or any part of the compensation which would otherwise have
      been payable currently for services as a Director (including fees
      payable   for services as a member of a committee of the
      Board) during such calendar year and subsequent calendar years shall be credited
      to a deferred compensation account subject to the terms of the     Plan.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, no     deferral election
      made under this Section 2 shall be effective with respect to compensation
      payable during any calendar year after 1995. [Last sentence added November
      17,
      1995.] 

(b)      An
      election to participate   in the Plan shall be in the form
      of a document executed by the Director and filed with the Secretary of the
      Company. An election related to fees otherwise payable currently in any calendar
      year shall become irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning of such
      calendar year. An election shall continue until a Director ceases to be a
      Director or until he or she terminates or modifies such election by written
      notice. Any such termination or modification shall become effective as of the
      end of the calendar year in which such notice is given with respect to all
      fees
      otherwise payable in subsequent calendar years. 

(c)      A
      Director who has filed a termination of election may thereafter again file
      an
      election to participate for any calendar year or years subsequent to the filing
      of such election. 

3.      DEFERRED
      ACCOUNTS 

Deferred
      amounts shall be   credited to the Director's account and
      shall bear interest from the date such fees would otherwise have been paid.
      The
      interest credited to the account will be compounded annually at the end of
      each
      calendar year shall be determined by the PTG Board of Directors from time to
      time. 

4.      DISTRIBUTION 

(a)             At
      the time of election to participate in the Plan, a Director shall make an
      election with respect to the distribution of amounts deferred under the Plan
      plus accumulated interest. A Director may elect to receive such amounts in
      one
      payment or in some other number of approximately level annual installments
      (not
      exceeding 15). The amount of an annual installment shall be calculated by
      dividing the total amount, including interest, credited to the Director's
      account Immediately prior to such installment by the remaining number of
      installments. As specified by the Director, the first installment (or the single
      payment if the Director has so elected) shall be paid as soon as practicable
      after the first day of the calendar year following (i) the calendar year in
      which the Director ceases to be a Director of the Company or any of its
      subsidiaries; (ii) the calendar year in which the Director attains a specified
      age (between age 59-1/2 and 75), (iii) the earlier of a specified number of
      years (maximum of five) after the Director ceases to be a Director of the
      Company or any of its subsidiaries or the attainment of age 75, or (iv) the
      earlier of the attainment of a specified age (but not younger than 59-1/2)
      or
      the calendar year In which the Director ceases to be a Director of the Company
      or any of its subsidiaries. Subsequent installments shall be paid on the first
      day of each succeeding calendar year until the entire amount credited to the
      Director's account is paid. Amounts held pending distribution pursuant to this
      Item shall continue to accrue interest at the rate stated in Item
      3. 

1 

(b)      The
        election with respect to the distribution of amounts deferred under the Plan
        plus accumulated interest shall be contained in the document, referred to
        in
        Item 2(b), executed by the Director and filed with the Secretary of the Company.
        Such an election related to fees otherwise payable currently in any calendar
        year shall become irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning of such
        calendar year. 

(c)      Notwithstanding
      an election pursuant to Item 4(a), in the event a Director     ceases to
      be a
      Director of the Company or any of its subsidiaries and becomes a proprietor,
      officer, partner, employee, or otherwise becomes affiliated with any business
      that is in competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or becomes
      employed by any governmental agency having jurisdiction over the activities
      of
      the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the entire balance of deferred fees,
      including interest, shall be paid immediately in a single payment. 

(d)      A
      Director may elect that, in the event the Director should die before full
      payment of all amounts credited to the Director's account, the balance of the
      deferred amounts shall be distributed in one payment, or in a number of annual
      installments (not exceeding 10), or by a continuation of the installment
      distributions being made or to be made to the Director, to the beneficiary
      or
      beneficiaries   designated
      in writing by the Director, or if no designation has been made, to the estate
      of
      the Director in a single payment. The first installment (or the single payment
      if the Director has so elected, shall be paid on or about the first day of
      the
      calendar quarter next following the month of death. The preceding sentence
      shall
      not apply if the beneficiary or the beneficiaries are to receive a continuation
      of installment distributions being made or to be made to the Director. [Entire
      of (d) amended December 18, 1992] 

(e)      For
      purposes of determining when a distribution shall be made under this Section
      4,
      a member of the Board of Directors of Pacific Telesis Group who becomes a member
      of the Board of Directors of PacTel Corporation on or before the total and
      complete separation of PacTel Corporation from Pacific Telesis Group shall
      not
      be considered to have ceased to be a Director of the Company or any of its
      subsidiaries until he or she ceases to be a member of the Board of Directors
      of
      PacTel Corporation. [Entire of (e) added February 25, 1994.] 

2 

5.           MISCELLANEOUS 

(a)      The
      rights of a Director to any deferred fees and/or interest thereon shall be
      those
      of a general creditor and shall not be subject in any manner to assignment
      by
      the Director. 

(b)      The
      Company shall not be required to reserve, or otherwise set aside, funds for
      the
      payment of its obligations hereunder. The Company's obligation to pay the
      deferred amounts shall be unfunded as to the Director. 

(c)      Copies
      of
      the Plan and any and all amendments thereto shall be made available at all
      reasonable times at the office of the Secretary of the Company to all
      Directors. 

(d)      The
      Executive Vice President, Human Resource Department of PTG, with the approval
      of
      the Executive Vice and General Counsel of PTG, shall be authorized to make
      minor
      or administrative changes to the Plan. 

3  

</EX-10.P>

<EX-10.P_I>
 10
 ex10pi.htm
 RESOLUTIONS AMENDING THE PLAN

ex10pi.htm 

Exhibit
      10-p(i) 

      CONSENT
      OF THE 

      EXECUTIVE
      COMMITTEE OF 

      THE
      BOARD
      OF DIRECTORS 

      OF
      PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP 

      IN
      LIEU
      OF A MEETING 

THE
      UNDERSIGNED, being all the members of the Executive Committee of the Board
      of
      Directors of Pacific Telesis Group (the "Corporation"), a Nevada corporation,
      do
      hereby consent to and deem it advisable to adopt and do hereby adopt the
      following resolutions, without a meeting, pursuant to Nev. Rev. Stat. ss.
      78.315, which consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote
      at a meeting duly held. 

WHEREAS,
      as a result of the merger on April 1, 1997, of the Corporation with SBC
      Communications Inc. (NV), a Nevada corporation, it is desirable to make changes
      to certain benefit plans of the Pacific Telesis Group: 

THEREFORE,
      BE IT: 

RESOLVED,
      that the Pacific Telesis Group Non-Qualified Savings Plan be, and it hereby
      is,
      amended as follows:  The following language shall be added at the end
      of the first paragraph of Section 2:  "An Employee who commences
      participation in another non-qualified deferral plan of Pacific Telesis Group
      or
      of any company controlling, controlled by or under common control with Pacific
      Telesis Group shall cease to be eligible to participate in this
      Plan." 

The
      following language shall be added at the end of the first paragraph of Section
      4: "A Participant shall cease participation in this Plan effective upon
      participation in another non-qualified deferral plan of Pacific Telesis Group
      or
      of any company controlling, controlled by or under common control with Pacific
      Telesis Group." 

RESOLVED
      FURTHER, that the Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Executive Deferred Compensation
      Plan be, and it hereby is, amended as follows: 

The
      following paragraph shall be added at the end of Section
      2:  "Provided, however, an employee shall not be eligible to
      participate in this Plan if the employee participates in another non-qualified
      deferral plan of Pacific Telesis Group or of any company controlling, controlled
      by or under common control with Pacific Telesis Group." 

The
      last sentence of Section 4.2 shall be amended to read as follows:  "An
      election with respect to Salary, STIP or Other Awards for services performed
      in
      a calendar year and/or with respect to LTIP for services performed in a
      multiple-year performance period shall be deemed irrevocably terminated when
      the
      employee, whether by transfer or termination of employment, or by participation
      in another non-qualified deferral plan of Pacific Telesis Group or of any
      company controlling, controlled by or under common control with Pacific Telesis
      Group, ceases to be eligible to participate in the Plan during such calendar
      year and/or such multiple-year performance period (as applicable)." 

RESOLVED
      FURTHER, that the Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Directors' Deferred Compensation
      Plan be, and it hereby is, amended as follows: 

The
      following paragraph shall be added at the end of Section 4.2:  "If a
      Director of Pacific Telesis Group as of March 31, 1997, became a Director (which
      term shall be deemed to include an Advisory Director) of SBC Communications
      Inc., a Delaware corporation, on April 1, 1997, then such Director may
      irrevocably elect in writing, on or before December 31, 1997, that the Director
      shall not be deemed to have ceased being a Director of Pacific Telesis Group
      so
      long as the Director continuously serves as a Director of SBC Communications
      Inc." 

RESOLVED
      FURTHER, that the Pacific Telesis Group Deferred Compensation Plan for
      Non-Employee Directors be, and it hereby is, amended as follows: 

The
      following subsection 4(f) shall be added at the end of Section 4:  "If
      a Director of Pacific Telesis Group as of March 31, 1997, became a Director
      (which term shall be deemed to include an Advisory Director) of SBC
      Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation, on April 1, 1997, then such
      Director may irrevocably elect in writing, on or before December 31, 1997,
      that
      the Director shall not be deemed to have ceased being a Director of Pacific
      Telesis Group so long as the Director continuously serves as a Director of
      SBC
      Communications Inc." 

The  undersigned,
      consisting of all the members of the Executive Committee of the Board of
      Directors of the Corporation, have executed these resolutions effective November
      21, 1997. 

Royce
      S.
      Caldwell 

      James
      D.
      Ellis 

</EX-10.P_I>

<EX-10.Q>
 11
 ex10q.htm
 PTG OUTSIDE DIRECTORS DEFERRED STOCK UNIT PLAN

ex10q.htm 

Exhibit
10-q 

      PACIFIC
TELESIS GROUP 

      OUTSIDE
DIRECTORS' DEFERRED STOCK UNIT PLAN 

ARTICLE
1.     INTRODUCTION. 

The Plan
was adopted by the Board on January 26, 1996, to be effective May 2,
1996.  This Plan replaces the Retirement Plan for (a) Outside
Directors whose Service commences on or after January 1, 1996, and (b) Outside
Directors whose Service commenced before January 1, 1996, but who elect to
participate in this Plan in lieu of the Retirement Plan, either as to their
entire benefit or as to a portion of their benefit under the Retirement
Plan. 

The
purpose of the Plan is to provide compensation to Outside Directors in a form
that aligns their interests with the interests of the Company's
stockholders.  The Plan provides for grants of Stock Units whose value
at any given time is equal to the value of shares of Common Stock. 

ARTICLE
2.     ADMINISTRATION. 

The Plan
shall be administered by the Committee.  The Committee shall (a)
interpret the Plan and (b) make all other decisions relating to the operation of
the Plan.  The Committee may adopt such rules or guidelines as it
deems appropriate to implement the Plan.  The Committee's
determinations under the Plan shall be final and binding on all
persons. 

ARTICLE
3.     ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION. 

3.1  Commencement
of Participation.  Participation in the Plan shall be limited to
Outside Directors who either: 

(a)  Start
serving as Outside Directors on or after January 1, 1996; or 

(b)  Started
serving as Outside Directors before January 1, 1996, but elected to participate
in this Plan pursuant to Section 3.2. 

Eligible
Outside Directors shall begin participating in the Plan on May 2, 1996, or when
their Service commences, whichever is later. 

3.2  Election
To Participate in This Plan.  This Section 3.2 shall apply to each
Outside Director who was an Outside Director both on December 31, 1995, and on
January 1, 1996.  Such Outside Director shall elect in accordance with
the following alternatives: 

(a)  If
the Outside Director's annual benefit accrued under the   Retirement
Plan as of May 1, 1996 is equal to 100% of the annual retainer payable to
Outside Directors, the Outside Director may elect to remain a participant in the
Retirement Plan; or the Outside Director may elect to become a Participant in
this Plan and to waive all benefits under the Retirement Plan (whether such
benefits are attributable to Service before or after January 1,
1996). 

(b)  If
the Outside Director's annual benefit accrued under the Retirement Plan as of
May 1, 1996, is less than 100% of the annual retainer payable to Outside
Directors, the Outside Director may elect to remain a participant in the
Retirement Plan as to the Outside Director's prorate accrued benefit and receive
only certain benefits under this Plan as described under Section 4.2 below, or
the Outside Director may elect to become a Participant in this Plan as to his or
her entire retirement benefit and to waive all benefits under the Retirement
Plan (whether such benefits are attributable to Service before or after January
1, 1996). 

The
election  under this Section 3.2 shall be made in writing on or before
May 1, 1996, and shall be irrevocable thereafter. 

3.3  Termination
of Participation.  Participation in the Plan shall terminate when the
Outside Director has received all benefits payable to him or her under the
Plan. 

ARTICLE
4.     NUMBER OF STOCK UNITS. 

4.1  General
Rule.  Each Outside Director who began serving as Outside Director on
or after January 1, 1996 shall receive 400 Stock Units for each calendar year in
which he or she meets the following requirements: 

(a)  The
Outside Director is a Participant on January 1 of such year; and 

(b)  The
Outside Director will not receive any grant of shares of Common Stock at any
time during such year under the Pacific Telesis Group 1994 Stock Incentive Plan
or any other plan of the Company. 

The grant
of Stock Units for a calendar year shall occur as of the date of the regular
annual meeting of the Company's shareowners for such year. 

4.2  One-Time
Grant for Pre-1996 Directors.  Each Participant whose Service
commenced before January 1, 1996, and who has elected to become a participant
under this Plan as to his or her entire retirement benefit shall receive a grant
of Stock Units as of May 2, 1996.  The number of Stock Units included
in such grant shall be equal to: 

(a)  The
Present Value of the Participant's accrued benefit under the Retirement Plan as
of May 1, 1996, divided by 

(b)  The
closing price of one share of Common Stock reported by the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Transactions Report (as set forth in the Western Edition of
The Wall Street Journal) for the last trading day prior to May 2,
1996. 

The
number of Stock Units shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of
five. 

4.3  Additional
Grant for Certain Pre-1996 Directors.  This Section 4.3 shall apply to
each Participant whose Service commenced before January 1, 1996, and whose
annual benefit accrued under the Retirement Plan as of May 1, 1996, is less than
100% of the annual retainer payable to Outside Directors. 

(a)  Numbers
of Stock Units Granted A Participant described in this Section 4.3 shall receive
an additional grant of Stock Units determined as follows: 

(i)  There
shall be calculated the hypothetical Present Value of the Participant's accrued
benefit under the Retirement Plan as of the Full Accrual Date, assuming that the
Participant had continued to participate in the Retirement Plan until the Full
Accrual Date and from such amount shall be subtracted the Present Value of the
Participant's accrued benefit in full years under the Retirement Plan as of May
1, 1996. 

(ii)
The Participant shall receive an additional grant of Stock Units as of May 2,
1996.  The number of Stock Units included in such additional grant
shall be equal to the amount calculated under (i) above, divided by the closing
price of one share of Common Stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Transactions Report (as set forth in the Western Edition of The Wall
Street Journal) for the last trading day prior to May 2, 1996. 

The
number of Stock Units shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of
five. 

(b)  Vesting
of Stock Units and Associated Dividend Equivalents.  In determining
the number of Stock Units (and dividend equivalents associated with such Stock
Units) available for settlement and distribution under Article 6, the Stock
Units and associated dividend equivalents granted under this Section 4.3 shall
vest annually as of the date of the regular annual meeting of the Company's
shareowners on a prorata basis during the years between May 2, 1996 and the
Outside Director's Full Accrual Date. 

ARTICLE
5.     DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS. 

Prior to
settlement, each Stock Unit shall carry with it the right to dividend
equivalents.  Such right entitles the Participant to be credited with
an amount equal to all cash dividends paid on one share of Common Stock while
the Stock Unit is outstanding.  Dividend equivalents shall be
converted into additional Stock Units and shall be settled pursuant to Article
6.  The conversion into Stock Units shall be based on the closing
price of Common Stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Transactions Report (as set forth in the Western Edition of The Wall Street
Journal) for the last trading day prior to the date when the dividend is
paid.  The number of Stock Units shall be rounded to the nearest whole
number of Units. 

ARTICLE
6.     DISTRIBUTION RULES AND SETTLEMENT OF STOCK
UNITS. 

6.1  General
Rule.  Stock Units shall normally be settled as soon as reasonably
practicable after the Participant's Service terminates for any reason; provided,
however, that any Stock Units or associated dividend equivalents that have not
vested under Section 4.3(b) shall not be available for settlement or
distribution.  Stock Units shall be settled by paying the Participant
a lump sum in cash, unless the Participant has made an election pursuant to
Section 6.2 to receive installments.  The amount of such lump sum
shall be equal to the product of: 

(a)  The
number of vested Stock Units held by the Participant (including dividend
equivalents converted into Stock Units); times 

(b)  The
closing price of one share of Common Stock reported by the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Transactions Report (as set forth in the Western Edition of
The Wall Street Journal) for the trading day coinciding with or next preceding
the Participant's last day of Service. 

6.2  Election
of Installment Form of Distribution.  Within 30 days of the time a
Participant first begins participation under the Plan, he or she may make an
irrevocable written election to receive the distribution of the cash
representing the settlement of his or her Stock Units, less applicable
withholding and employment taxes, in approximately equal annual
installments.  In accordance with procedures established by the
Company, a Participant may elect to receive payment in one of the following
forms: 

(a)  approximately
five equal annual installments; or 

(b)  approximately
ten equal annual installments. 

Installments
subsequent to the first installment to the Participant shall be paid as soon as
practicable after the January 1 of each succeeding calendar year until the
entire value, less applicable withholding and employment taxes, is
distributed.  The portion of Stock Units being held for future
installments shall be credited with dividend equivalents as described in Article
5 prior to distribution.  The amount of each installment after the
first installment shall be calculated in the manner described in Section 6.1
above, using the closing price the trading coinciding with or next preceding
December 31 of the year prior to distribution. 

6.3  Death
of Participant.  Any payment under Section 6.1 or Section 6.2 after
the Participant's death shall be made to his or her beneficiary or
beneficiaries.  Each Participant shall designate one or more
beneficiaries for this purpose by filing the prescribed form with the
Company.  A beneficiary designation may be changed by filing the
prescribed form with the Company at any time before the Participant's
death.  If no beneficiary was designated or if no designated
beneficiary survives the Participant, then any payment after the Participant's
death shall be made to his or her estate. 

ARTICLE
7.     PROTECTION AGAINST DILUTION 

7.1  Adjustments.  In
the event of a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, a
declaration of a dividend payable in Common Stock, a combination or
consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or
otherwise) into a lesser number of shares of Common Stock, a recapitalization, a
spinoff or a similar occurrence, the Committee shall make such adjustments as
it, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate in one or more of: 

(a)  The
number of Stock Units to be granted thereafter under Article 4; and 

(b)  The
number of Stock Units already held by any Participant. 

7.2  Reorganizations.  In
the event that the Company is a party to a merger or other reorganization, Stock
Units shall be subject to the agreement of merger or
reorganization.  Such agreement may provide, without limitation, for
the assumption of the Stock Units by the surviving corporation or its parent
(with equitable adjustments), for their continuation by the Company (if the
Company is a surviving corporation) or for accelerated settlement in
cash. 

ARTICLE
8.     GENERAL PROVISIONS. 

8.1  Creditors'
Rights.  A Participant shall have no rights other than those of a
general creditor of the Company.  Stock Units represent an unfunded
and unsecured obligation of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of
the Plan. 

8.2  Voting
Rights.  Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to
their Stock Units. 

8.3  Assignment
of Rights.  Amounts credited under the Plan shall not be anticipated,
assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any
creditor's process, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of
law.  Any act in violation of this Section 8.3 shall be
void.  However, this Section 8.3 shall not preclude a Participant from
designating one or more beneficiaries pursuant to Section 6.3, nor shall it
preclude a transfer of amounts credited under the Plan by will or by the laws of
descent and distribution. 

8.4  Withholding
Taxes.  To the extent required by applicable federal, state, local or
foreign law, a Participant or his or her successor shall make arrangements
satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any withholding tax
obligations that arise in connection with the Plan.  The Company shall
not be required to make any payment under the Plan until such obligations are
satisfied. 

8.5  Choice
of Law.  The Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance
with, the laws of the State of Nevada (except their choice-of-law
provisions). 

8.6  Administration
and Interpretation.  The Board shall have the sole   authority
to construe and interpret this Plan in accordance with its terms and provisions
and to make rules relating to the administration thereof.  The
decision of the Board with respect to any issues relating to the interpretation
of this Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding on all
parties.  The Board may delegate any part of its duties hereunder to
the Company's Executive Vice President-Human Resources, subject to the final
authority of the Board.  The Executive Vice President-Human Resources
of the Company, with the approval of the Executive Vice President and General
Counsel of the Company, shall be authorized to make minor or administrative
changes to the Plan. 

ARTICLE
9.     FUTURE OF THE PLAN. 

9.1  Term
of the Plan.  The Plan, as set forth herein, shall become effective on
May 2, 1996.  The Plan shall remain in effect until it is terminated
pursuant to Section 9.2. 

9.2  Amendment
or Termination.  The Board may, at any time and for any reason, amend
or terminate the Plan.  An amendment of the Plan shall be subject to
the approval of the Company's stockholders only to the extent required by
applicable laws, regulations or rules.  No Stock Units shall be
granted under the Plan after the termination thereof.  The termination
of the Plan, or any amendment thereof, shall not affect any Stock Unit
previously granted under the Plan; provided, however, that to the extent that
the Board approves any new benefit plan or improvement to any existing benefit
plan applicable to Outside Directors, it may terminate rights which have already
accrued to a Participant under this Plan if, in its sole discretion, it
determines that the benefits payable to a Participant under such new or improved
plan adequately replace the benefits provided hereunder. 

ARTICLE
10.      DEFINITIONS. 

10.1
"Board" means the Company's Board of Directors, as constituted from time to
time. 

10.2
"Committee" means the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the
Board. 

10.3
"Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company. 

10.4
"Company" means Pacific Telesis Group, a Nevada corporation. 

10.5
"Full Accrual Date" means the earliest date on which the Outside   Director
could separate from Service with a benefit under the Retirement Plan equal to
100% of the annual retainer payable to Outside Directors, as in effect at the
time of the separation from Service. 

10.6
"Outside Director" means a member of the Board who is not a common-law employee
of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 

10.7
"Participant" means an Outside Director who participates in the Plan pursuant to
Article 3. 

10.8
"Plan" means this Pacific Telesis Group Outside Directors' Deferred Stock Unit
Plan, as amended from time to time. 

10.9
"Present Value" means the present actuarial value, determined by using the
actuarial assumptions that would be applicable on the date in question for
calculation of pension benefits under the Pacific Telesis Group Pension Plan for
Salaried Employees. 

10.10
"Retirement Plan" means the Pacific Telesis Group Outside Directors' Retirement
Plan, as amended from time to time. 

10.11
"Service" means service as an Outside Director. 

10.12  "Stock
Unit" means a bookkeeping entry representing, at any given time, the dollar
value at such time of one share of Common Stock. 

ARTICLE
11.  EXECUTION. 

To record
the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Company has caused its duly
authorized officer to affix the corporate name and seal hereto. 

</EX-10.Q>

<EX-10.R>
 12
 ex10r.htm
 PTG 1996 DIRECTORS DEFERRED COMP PLAN

ex10r.htm 

Exhibit
      10-r 

      PACIFIC
      TELESIS GROUP 

      1996
      DIRECTORS' DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

SECTION
      1. ELIGIBILITY 

Each
      member of the Board of Directors of Pacific Telesis Group ("Company") who is
      not
      an employee of the Company, or any of its Affiliates, is eligible to participate
      in the 1996 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan ("Plan"). 

SECTION
      2. PARTICIPATION; DEFERRAL ELECTION 

2.1
      Deferral Election.  Prior to the beginning of any calendar year,
      commencing with the calendar year 1996, each eligible Director or designated
      Director may elect to participate in the Plan by directing that all or any
      part
      of the Compensation which would otherwise have been payable currently for
      services as a Director during such calendar year and subsequent calendar years
      shall be credited to a deferred Compensation account subject to the terms of
      the
      Plan. 

2.2
      Form of Election, Modification or Termination.  An election to
      participate in the Plan shall be in the form of a document executed by the
      Director and filed with the Secretary of the Company.  An election
      related to Compensation otherwise payable currently in any calendar year shall
      become irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning of such calendar
      year.  An election shall continue from year to year until a Director
      ceases to be a Director or until he or she terminates or modifies such election
      by written notice.  An election shall terminate on the day after a
      Director ceases to be a Director.  Any termination or modification by
      a Director of his or her election shall become effective as of the end of the
      calendar year in which written notice thereof is received by the Secretary
      of
      the Company, and shall be effective with respect to all fees otherwise payable
      in subsequent calendar years until a new election or modification is made by
      such Director in accordance with this Section 2. 

2.3
      New Election After Prior Election Terminated.  A Director who has
      filed a termination of election may thereafter again file an election in
      accordance with Section 2.1 to participate for any calendar year or years
      subsequent to the filing of such election. 

SECTION
      3. DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNTS 

3.1
      Establishment of Accounts; Credited Interest.  Deferred amounts shall
      be credited to the Director's account and shall bear interest from the date
      such
      fees would otherwise have been paid.  The interest credited to the
      account shall be determined by the Board of Directors from time to time and
      shall be compounded annually at the end of each calendar year. 

3.2
      No Funding or Assignment.  It is intended that this Plan constitute an
      unfunded deferred compensation arrangement.  The amounts credited to
      the Plan account for each Director shall be held in the general funds of the
      Company.  All amounts in such accounts, including all Compensation
      deferred by a Director an all interest credited thereon, shall remain assets
      of
      the Company.  The Company shall not be required to reserve or
      otherwise set aside funds for the payment of amounts credited to Plan
      accounts.  The obligation of the Company to pay benefits under the
      Plan constitutes a mere promise to make benefit payments in the future, and
      shall be unfunded as to the Director, whose rights shall be those of a general
      unsecured creditor.  Title to and beneficial ownership of any assets
      which the Company may set aside or otherwise designate to make payments under
      the Plan shall at all times remain in the Company, and the Director shall not
      have any property interest in any specific assets of the Company.  The
      rights of a Director or his or her beneficiary to benefit payments under the
      Plan are not subject in any manner to assignment, alienation, pledge or
      garnishment by creditors. 

SECTION
      4. DISTRIBUTION 

4.1
      Distribution Election.  At the time a Director makes an election to
      defer Compensation under the Plan, the Director shall also make an election
      with
      respect to the distribution of amounts credited to the Director's Plan account
      pursuant to such election, and interest credited thereon, during the Director's
      lifetime, and in the event of the Director's death prior to distribution of
      all
      amounts credited to the Director's Plan account.  Distribution
      elections shall become effective and irrevocable at the same times the election
      to defer Compensation becomes effective and irrevocable under Section
      2.2. 

4.2
      Options for Distribution During Life.  A Director may elect to receive
      the amounts credited to his or her Plan account in one payment or in some other
      number of approximately level annual installments (not exceeding
      15).  The amount of an annual installment shall be calculated by
      dividing the total amount, including interest, credited to the Director's
      account immediately prior to such installment by the remaining number of
      installments.  As specified by the Director, the first installment (or
      the single payment if the Director has so elected) shall be paid as soon as
      practicable after the first day of the calendar year following: 

(A)  the
      calendar year in which the Director ceases to be a Director of the Company
      or
      any of its subsidiaries; 

(B)  the
      calendar year in which the Director attains a specified age between age 59-1/2
      and 75; 

(C)  the
      earlier of calendar year containing the date that is a specified number of
      years
      (maximum of 5) after the date the Director ceases to be a Director of the
      Company or any of its subsidiaries or the calendar year in which the Director
      attains age 75; or 

(D)  the
      earlier of the calendar year in which the Director attains a specified age
      not
      younger than 59-1/2 or the calendar year in which the Director ceases to be
      a
      Director of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 

If
      an
      installment distribution is elected, subsequent installments shall be paid
      on
      the first day of each succeeding calendar year until the entire amount credited
      to the Director's account is paid.  Amounts held pending distribution
      pursuant to the Director's distribution election shall accrue interest at the
      rate determined by the Board of Directors for each year such amounts continue
      to
      be held. 

4.3  Immediate
      Single Payment.  Notwithstanding a Director's distribution election
      pursuant to Section 4.2, in the event a Director ceases to be a Director of
      the
      Company or any of its subsidiaries and becomes a proprietor, officer, partner,
      employee, or otherwise becomes affiliated with any business that is in
      competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or becomes employed
      by
      any governmental agency having jurisdiction over the activities of the Company
      or any of its subsidiaries, the entire balance of amounts credited to the
      Director's Plan account, shall be paid as soon as practicable thereafter in
      a
      single payment. 

4.4  Options
      for Distribution In the Event of Death.  A Director may elect that, in
      the event the Director should die before full payment of all amounts credited
      to
      the Director's account, the balance of amounts credited to the Director's Plan
      account shall be distributed to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated
      by
      the Director 

(A)  in
      one payment on or about the first day of the calendar quarter next following
      the
      month of death; 

(B)  in
      a number of annual installments not exceeding 10, commencing on or about the
      first day of the calendar quarter next following the month of death;
      or 

(C)  in
      the same manner elected under Section 4.3 for lifetime distributions to the
      Director, using as any specified age the date the Director would have attained
      that age if he or she had continued to live. 

If
      no
      election has been made under this Section 4.4, the balance of the Director's
      Plan account shall be distributed in one payment as soon as practicable after
      the year of the Director's death.  If no beneficiary designation has
      been made, distribution shall be made to the estate of the
      Director. 

SECTION
      5.  ADMINISTRATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 

5.1  Plan
      Document.  Copies of the Plan and any and all amendments thereto shall
      be made available at all reasonable times at the office of the Secretary of
      the
      Company to all Directors. 

5.2  Amendment.  The
      Board of Directors may at any time make changes in the Plan, but such amendment
      shall have prospective effect only and shall not adversely affect the rights
      of
      any Director, without his or her consent, to any benefit under the Plan to
      which
      such Director was entitled prior to the effective date of
      amendment.  Changes in the interest rate applied to Plan account
      balances as determined by the Board of Directors from time to time in accordance
      with Section 3.1 shall not be deemed to be Plan amendments, notwithstanding
      that
      they apply to Compensation previously earned and deferred.  The
      Executive Vice President - Human Resources of Pacific Telesis Group, with the
      approval of the Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Pacific Telesis
      Group, shall be authorized to make minor or administrative changes to the
      Plan. 

5.3  Termination.  The
      Board of Directors may at any time terminate the Plan.  Any
      termination of the Plan shall not terminate the deferral of Compensation
      previously deferred into a Plan account, but may prevent the deferral of
      Compensation not yet earned notwithstanding the Director's prior election to
      defer such Compensation. 

SECTION
      6.     DEFINITIONS. 

For
      purposes of this Plan, the following words shall have the meaning so defined
      unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

6.1  "Affiliate"
      as the term relates to Pacific Telesis Group means subsidiary of or other
      entity  that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control
      with Pacific Telesis Group.  As used herein, "control" means the
      possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the
      direction of the management and policies of such entity, whether through
      ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or
      otherwise. 

6.2  "Board
      of Directors" or "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of Pacific Telesis
      Group. 

6.3  "Compensation"
      shall mean a Director's annual retainer fee, fees payable for services as a
      member of a committee of the Board including committee meeting fees, Board
      meeting fees, and any other compensation for services as a Director, excluding
      stock awards under Section 4.2 of the Pacific Telesis Group 1994 Stock Incentive
      Plan.  Compensation does not include reimbursement for expenses such
      as telephone service or travel costs. 

</EX-10.R>

<EX-10.R_I>
 13
 ex10ri.htm
 RESOLUTIONS AMENDING THE PLAN

ex10ri.htm 

Exhibit
      10-r(i) 

CONSENT
      OF THE  

       EXECUTIVE
      COMMITTEE OF  

       THE
      BOARD OF DIRECTORS  

       OF
      PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP  

       IN
      LIEU OF A MEETING  

THE
      UNDERSIGNED, being all the members of the Executive Committee of the Board
      of
      Directors of Pacific  Telesis Group
      (the  "Corporation"),  a Nevada corporation,  do
      hereby consent to and deem it advisable to adopt and do hereby adopt the
      following resolutions, without a meeting, pursuant to Nev. Rev. Stat. ss.
      78.315, which consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote
      at a meeting duly held. 

WHEREAS,
      as a result of the merger on April 1, 1997, of the Corporation  with
      SBC  Communications  Inc.  (NV), a
      Nevada  corporation, it is desirable to make changes to certain
      benefit plans of the Pacific Telesis Group: 

THEREFORE,
      BE IT: 

RESOLVED,  that
      the Pacific Telesis Group Non-Qualified Savings Plan be, and it hereby is,
      amended as follows: 

The
      following language shall be added at the end of the first paragraph of Section
      2:  "An  Employee who commences participation in another
      non-qualified deferral plan of Pacific Telesis Group or of any company
      controlling, controlled by or under common control with Pacific Telesis Group
      shall cease to be eligible to participate in this Plan." 

The
      following language shall be added at the end of the first paragraph of Section
      4: "A Participant shall cease participation in this Plan effective upon
      participation in another non-qualified deferral plan of Pacific Telesis Group
      or
      of any company controlling, controlled by or under common control with Pacific
      Telesis Group." 

RESOLVED  FURTHER,
      that the Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Executive 

      Deferred
      Compensation Plan be, and it hereby is, amended as follows: 

The
      following paragraph shall be added at the end of Section 2: "Provided, however,
      an employee shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan if the employee
      participates in another non-qualified  deferral plan of Pacific
      Telesis Group or of any company controlling, controlled by or under common
      control with Pacific Telesis Group." 

The
      last
      sentence of Section 4.2 shall be amended to read as follows:  "An
      election with respect to Salary, STIP or Other Awards for services performed
      in
      a calendar year and/or with respect to LTIP for services performed in a
      multiple-year performance period shall be deemed irrevocably terminated when
      the
      employee, whether by transfer or termination of employment, or by participation
      in another non-qualified deferral plan of Pacific Telesis Group or of any
      company controlling, controlled by or under common control with Pacific Telesis
      Group, ceases to be eligible to participate in the Plan during such calendar
      year and/or such multiple-year performance period (as applicable)." 

RESOLVED
      FURTHER, that the Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Directors' Deferred Compensation
      Plan be, and it hereby is, amended as follows: 

The  following  paragraph  shall
      be added at the end of Section 4.2: "If a Director of Pacific Telesis Group
      as
      of March 31, 1997, became a Director (which term shall be deemed to include
      an
      Advisory Director) of SBC Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation, on April
      1, 1997, then such Director may irrevocably elect in writing, on or before
      December 31, 1997, that the Director shall not be deemed to have ceased being
      a
      Director of Pacific Telesis Group so long as the
      Director  continuously  serves as a Director of SBC
      Communications Inc." 

RESOLVED
      FURTHER, that the Pacific Telesis Group Deferred Compensation  Plan
      for Non-Employee  Directors be, and it hereby is, amended as
      follows: 

The
      following subsection 4(f) shall be added at the end of Section 4: "If a Director
      of  Pacific Telesis Group as of March 31, 1997, became a Director
      (which term shall be deemed to include an Advisory Director) of SBC
      Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation, on April 1, 1997, then such
      Director may irrevocably elect in writing, on or before December 31, 1997,
      that
      the Director shall not be deemed to have ceased being a Director of Pacific
      Telesis Group so long as the Director continuously serves as a Director of
      SBC
      Communications Inc." 

The  undersigned,
      consisting of all the members of the Executive Committee of the Board
      of  Directors of the Corporation, have executed these resolutions
      effective November 21, 1997. 

Royce
      S.
      Caldwell                                       James
      D. Ellis 

</EX-10.R_I>

<EX-10.S>
 14
 ex10s.htm
 TRANSITION AGREEMENT BETWEEN BELLSOUTH AND RAFAEL DE LA VEGA

ex10s.htm 

Exhibit
10-s 

Transition
Agreement by and between BellSouth Corporation and 

      Rafael de
la Vega dated December 29, 2003 

TRANSITION
AGREEMENT  

THIS
AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 29 day of December, 2003, by and between
BellSouth Corporation, a Georgia corporation ("Company"), and Rafael de la Vega
("Executive") (each, a "Party" and, collectively, the "Parties"): 

REASONS
FOR THIS AGREEMENT. Executive has been employed by Company and its Affiliated
Companies since 1974. During his tenure, Executive has served in a variety of
senior capacities and currently serves as Company's President - Latin America
Operations with overall responsibility for Company's operations in Argentina,
Uruguay, Colombia, Venezuela, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Panama, Nicaragua and
Guatemala. 

Executive's
previous assignments include having served as Company's President of Broadband
and Internet Services with overall responsibility for the deployment, marketing
and operations of broadband services, internet services and data support. Prior
to that assignment, Executive was responsible for BellSouth Telecommunications,
Inc.'s network operations in selected states. 

Company
and SBC Communications Inc. combined their respective domestic mobile wireless
voice and data services businesses in 2000 into the newly-formed entities
Cingular Wireless LLC and Cingular Wireless Management Corp. (together with
their subsidiary companies, collectively referred to herein as
"Cingular").  Company now desires to have Executive join Cingular as
its Chief Operating Officer, a move that will require termination of Executive's
employment with Company. Through this Agreement, Company desires, in part, to
provide certain transition benefits and severance protections to Executive.
Executive has agreed to accept this assignment to Cingular and now intends to
separate from employment with Company on December 30, 2003, and thereafter to
join Cingular. 

Executive
acknowledges that Company and Affiliated Companies have disclosed or made
available and in the future will disclose and make available Confidential
Information to Executive, which could be used by Executive to Company's or
Affiliated Companies' detriment. Executive further acknowledges that the
covenant not to compete and other restrictive covenants in this Agreement are
fair and reasonable, that enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement will
not cause him undue hardship, and that the provisions of this Agreement are
reasonably necessary and commensurate with the need to protect Company and
Affiliated Companies and their business interests and property from irreparable
harm. 

1.       RESIGNATION
FROM BELLSOUTH. Executive separates and resigns from employment with Company and
any position Executive holds with any Affiliated Company effective December 30,
2003. 

2.       BELLSOUTH
SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN. 

(a)      Executive's
transition to Cingular shall not be deemed to trigger a termination of
employment with Company for purposes of the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP").  Furthermore, Executive shall not
be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of SERP until such time as
Executive's employment with Cingular terminates (or, if Executive leaves
Cingular to accept employment without a break in service with another
Participating Company, Affiliate or Interchange Company (as such terms are
defined in SERP), Executive's employment shall not be deemed to have terminated
for purposes of SERP before the earliest date on which Executive is no longer
employed by any such entity). 

(b)      Executive
shall continue to participate in SERP for purposes of all benefits provided by
SERP and to accrue benefits under SERP for his full period of service with
Cingular as if he remained employed by Company. Company shall calculate
Executive's SERP benefits by reference to his combined period of service
otherwise recognized under SERP plus his period of Cingular service; by
reference to compensation paid to Executive by Cingular with respect to his
period of service at Cingular; and, to the extent applicable, by reference to
compensation paid to him by Company with respect to his period of service with
Company and other Affiliated Companies. In addition to offsets provided in SERP,
Executive's benefits under SERP shall also be reduced by any benefits payable to
him under any one or more tax-qualified or non-qualified defined benefit pension
plans, excess plans, make-up plans or supplemental executive retirement plans at
Cingular. In determining Executive's SERP benefits accrued while at Cingular,
Company shall make such additional adjustments in the administration of SERP and
the calculation of Executive's benefits thereunder as shall be necessary and
appropriate to take into account Cingular's compensation and employment
practices. 

3.       TERMINATION
ALLOWANCE. 

(a)      In
the event Executive's employment with Cingular is terminated under circumstances
described in Section 3(b) below, Company shall pay to Executive (or, in the
event of Executive's death, to his estate) a termination allowance. The
termination allowance shall be an amount equal to the sum of (i) two hundred
percent (200%) of Executive's Base Salary in effect on the date of Executive's
termination of employment, plus (ii) two hundred percent (200%) of the standard
award amount applicable to Executive under his employer's short term bonus plan
for the year in which his date of termination occurs, less all applicable
withholdings, payable in a single lump sum payment. Payment of the termination
allowance shall be made as soon as practicable following Executive's termination
of employment under circumstances entitling him to such payment, and
satisfaction of all conditions described in this Agreement on Executive's
entitlement to such payment. For purposes of this Agreement, "Base Salary" shall
refer to the gross annual base salary payable to Executive including (A) the
amounts of any before-tax contributions made by Executive from such salary to
any tax-qualified cash or deferred arrangement sponsored by his employer, and
(B) the amount of any other deferrals of such salary under any nonqualified
deferred compensation plan(s) maintained by his employer. 

(b)      Executive's
employment shall be deemed to have been terminated under circumstances described
in this Section 3(b) only if: 

(i)      (A)
Executive's employment is terminated either by Cingular other than for Cause, or
by Executive for Good Reason; (B) Executive shall within thirty (30) days
following such termination of employment have notified Company of his desire to
return to Company, and within thirty (30) days following such notification
Company shall have failed to offer to Executive employment with Company or a
subsidiary or affiliate of Company in a "comparable" position (as defined
below); and (C) Executive executes a supplemental release, substantially in the
form of the release agreement attached to this Agreement as Exhibit "A" (the
"Release Agreement"), which is incorporated herein by this
reference; 

(ii)     Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability, and Executive
executes a Release Agreement; or 

(iii)    Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death. 

For
purposes of clause (i) above, a "comparable" position shall mean a position (1)
providing Base Salary and a standard or target short term bonus no less than
those provided to Executive immediately prior to his termination of employment
with Cingular (and disregarding any previous diminution in such amounts which
did or would have constituted Good Reason under this Agreement); (2) reporting
to Company's Chief Executive Officer; (3) providing types and amounts of other
compensation and benefits comparable to those provided to other similarly
situated Company officers; and (4) not requiring relocation outside the Atlanta,
Georgia, metropolitan area. 

4.       DISCHARGE
AND WAIVER. Executive fully releases and forever discharges Company and
Affiliated Companies, and any employee, officer, director, representative,
agent, successor or assign of Company and Affiliated Companies (both in their
personal and official capacities), and all persons acting by, through and under
or in concert with any of them, from any and all claims, demands, causes of
action, remedies, obligations, costs and expenses of whatever nature, whether
under the common law, state law, federal law (including but not limited to the
Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967) or otherwise, through the date of
this Agreement, including those arising from or in connection with the terms and
conditions of employment with Company (and Affiliated Companies). This paragraph
is not intended to and shall not affect benefits to which Executive may be
entitled under any pension, savings, health, welfare, or other benefit plan in
which Executive is a participant. 

5.       COVENANT
NOT TO SUE. Executive covenants and agrees not to make or file any claim, demand
or cause of action or seek any remedy of whatever nature, whether under the
common law, state law, federal law or otherwise, arising from or in connection
with the matters discharged and waived in Section 4, above. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event Executive files a charge or lawsuit under the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA), and thereby challenges the
validity of the release described in Section 4, such charge or lawsuit will not
be considered a breach of this Section 5. 

6.       CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION. Executive agrees to protect Confidential Information from misuse or
unauthorized disclosure. In addition to complying with all applicable laws
governing trade secret and confidential information disclosure, Executive will
not (i) use, except in connection with work for Company or Affiliated Companies,
or threaten to use, or (ii) disclose, communicate or give others access to
(orally, in writing, electronically or digitally) or threaten to disclose,
communicate or give other access to any Confidential Information. For purposes
of this Agreement, "Confidential Information" shall mean information, whether
generated internally or externally, whether in written, oral, digital,
electronic or any other form or format, relating to Company's or Affiliated
Companies' businesses that derives economic value, actual or potential, from not
being generally known to other Persons and is the subject of efforts that are
reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy or confidentiality,
including, but not limited to, studies and analyses, technical or nontechnical
data, programs, patterns, compilations, devices, methods, models (including cost
and /or pricing models and operating models), techniques, drawings, processes,
employee compensation data, and financial data (including marketing information
and strategies and personnel data). For purposes of this Agreement, Confidential
Information does not include information that is not a trade secret three (3)
years after termination of Executive's employment with Company, but shall
continue to include trade secrets as long as information remains a trade secret
under applicable law. Executive acknowledges that any use of, reliance upon,
disclosure or other misappropriation of Confidential Information inconsistent
with the terms of this Agreement (including without limitation acceptance by
Executive of a position in which the inevitability of such use, reliance,
disclosure or misappropriation is reasonably anticipated) would result in
material and irreparable damage and injury to Company or Affiliated
Companies. 

7.       LIMITATION
ON COMPETITION. In consideration of the additional payments, benefits and other
rights that are being provided to Executive under this Agreement, during the one
(1) year period following the Effective Date, Executive agrees not to provide
any "Services" (as defined in the third paragraph of this Section 7) to any
Person that competes directly with Company or any Affiliated Companies, whether
Executive provides the Services as an employee, consultant, independent
contractor, advisor or director. After the termination of Executive's
employment, the foregoing covenant shall restrict 

      Executive's
actions only with respect to competition in the Territory. 

For
purposes of this Agreement, the term "Territory" shall mean the geographical
territory consisting of (i) those territories in the countries of Argentina,
Uruguay, Colombia, Venezuela, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Panama, Nicaragua and
Guatemala described in Exhibit "B" attached hereto and incorporated by reference
herein and (ii) those counties and parishes in the states of Alabama, Florida,
Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and
Tennessee listed on Exhibit "B", which the Parties acknowledge represents
geographical territories in which Executive, as of the Effective Date, has (or
has had) responsibility for providing Services to Company or Affiliated
Companies. The Parties also acknowledge that the entire Territory consists of
geographical territories in which Company and Affiliated Companies, directly or
indirectly, are conducting business on the Effective Date. In an effort to
impose reasonable limitations on the scope of the Territory, Company has not
required that Executive comply with the covenant in this Section 7 in all
geographical areas where Company and Affiliated Companies are licensed to
conduct business and are conducting business, even though the Parties
acknowledge that Executive is performing Services throughout that entire area.
Executive agrees that because of the widespread nature of Company's business,
Executive's engaging in competitive activity anywhere in the Territory would
irreparably injure Company or Affiliated Companies and that, therefore, a more
limited geographic restriction is neither feasible nor appropriate. 

For
purposes of this Agreement, the term "Services" shall mean services which
Executive as of the Effective Date is responsible for providing to Company and
Affiliated Companies, which Executive acknowledges consists of providing
management, administrative and advisory services related to business planning
and operations with respect to the communications services business, consisting
of wireline (local exchange, exchange access and intraLATA toll)
telecommunications services, systems and products, wireless (cellular, personal
communications service, and mobile data) communications services, systems and
products, electronic commerce or communications (internet and web based
applications), data transmission and networking, entertainment services, systems
and products, paging services, systems and products, and telecommunications
directory advertising and publishing. 

Executive
represents and warrants that Executive's education, training and experience are
such that this Section 7 will not jeopardize or significantly interfere with
Executive's ability to secure other gainful employment. 

8.       INTERPRETATION;
SEVERABILITY OF INVALID PROVISIONS. Executive acknowledges and agrees that the
limitations described in this Agreement, including specifically the limitations
upon his activities, are reasonable in scope, are necessary for the protection
of Company's and Affiliated Companies' business, and form an essential part of
the consideration for which this Agreement has been entered into. It is the
intention of the Parties that the provisions of this Agreement be enforced to
the fullest extent permissible under applicable laws and public policies.
Nonetheless, the rights and restrictions contained in this Agreement may be
exercised and shall be applicable and binding only to the extent they do not
violate any applicable laws and are intended to be limited to the extent
necessary so that they will not render this Agreement illegal, invalid or
unenforceable. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be illegal,
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force
and effect. The provisions of this Agreement do not in any way limit or abridge
Company's or Affiliated Companies' rights under the laws of unfair competition,
trade secret, copyright, patent, trademark or any other applicable law(s), all
of which are in addition to and cumulative of Company's or Affiliated Companies'
rights under this Agreement. Executive agrees that the existence of any claim by
Executive against Company or any Affiliated Company, whether predicated on this
Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to enforcement by Company
or any Affiliated Company of any or all of such provisions or
covenants. 

9.       CONSEQUENCES
OF BREACH OF AGREEMENT BY EXECUTIVE. Executive agrees that he will reimburse
Company and Affiliated Companies for any and all attorneys' fees incurred by
Company and Affiliated Companies arising out of Executive's breach or threatened
breach of any provision of this Agreement.  Executive also understands
that his entitlement to and retention of the benefits provided to Executive
under this Agreement are expressly conditioned upon his fulfillment of the terms
and conditions of the Agreement, and Executive agrees, to the extent permitted
or required by law, immediately to return or repay the amounts he has received
under this Agreement from Company in excess of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00)
upon Executive's breach of any provision of this Agreement. Although, as
provided in Section 5 of this Agreement, the filing of a charge or a lawsuit
under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) to challenge the validity
of the Agreement will not be considered a breach, the severance and other
benefits paid to Executive under this Agreement may serve as restitution,
recoupment, and/or setoff in the event Executive prevails on the merits of such
claim. 

10.      RELIEF.
The Parties acknowledge that a breach or threatened breach by Executive of any
of the terms of this Agreement would result in material and irreparable damage
and injury to Company or Affiliated Companies, and that it would be difficult or
impossible to establish the full monetary value of such damage. Therefore,
Company and Affiliated Companies shall be entitled to injunctive relief in the
event of Executive's breach or threatened breach of any of the terms contained
in this Agreement. 

11.      ARBITRATION.
Except for the right to seek temporary restraint or interim injunctive relief
from a court of competent jurisdiction (as provided in Section 10, any dispute,
controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the
breach, termination or invalidity of any provision hereof (collectively, a
"Claim") shall be settled by arbitration pursuant to the National Rules for the
Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association. Any
such arbitration shall be conducted by one arbitrator, with experience in the
matters covered by this Agreement, mutually acceptable to the Parties. If the
Parties are unable to agree on the arbitrator within thirty (30) days of one
party giving the other party written notice of intent to arbitrate a Claim, the
American Arbitration Association shall appoint an arbitrator with such
qualifications to conduct such arbitration. The decision of the arbitrator in
any such arbitration shall be conclusive and binding on the Parties. Any such
arbitration shall be conducted in Atlanta, Georgia. 

The
Parties indicate their acceptance of the foregoing arbitration requirement by
initialing below: 

RDS                                        
    RDV 

                      Company                                    Executive 

12.      AGREEMENT
BINDING. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
Company and Affiliated Companies, and their successors, assignees, and
designees, and Executive and Executive's heirs, executors, administrators,
personal representatives and assigns. 

13.      ENTIRE
AGREEMENT; PREVIOUS AGREEMENT. This Agreement and all exhibits to this Agreement
(which are incorporated into the Agreement by reference) contain the entire
agreement between the Parties and no statements, promises or inducements made by
either Party, or agent of either Party, which are not contained in this
Agreement shall be valid or binding; provided, however, that the matters dealt
with herein supersede the terms of Company benefit plans and agreements between
the Parties entered into pursuant to such plans only to the extent the
provisions of such plans and related agreements are inconsistent with this
Agreement and other provisions of such plans and related agreements not
inconsistent with this Agreement are not affected. This Agreement may not be
enlarged, modified or altered except in writing signed by the
Parties. 

14.      NONWAIVER.
The failure of Company or any Affiliated Companies to insist upon strict
performance of the terms of this Agreement, or to exercise any option herein,
shall not be construed as a waiver or a relinquishment for the future of such
term or option, but rather the same shall continue in full   force and
effect. 

15.      NOTICES.
All notices, requests, demands and other communications required or permitted by
this Agreement or by any statute relating to this Agreement shall be in writing
and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered or mailed, first-class,
certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Company or Executive at the
address reflected on Exhibit "C" attached hereto and incorporated by herein by
this reference. 

16.      NONDISCLOSURE.
Executive shall not disclose the existence or terms of this Agreement to any
third party (excluding Executive's spouse and children), except to receive
advice of legal counsel, financial advisors or tax advisors (who shall also be
required to maintain its confidentiality) or to comply with any statutory or
common law duty; provided that these restrictions on disclosure shall not apply
to the extent that the existence of this Agreement are disclosed by Company or
any Affiliated Company as part of its periodic public filings and disclosures or
otherwise. 

17.      COUNTERPARTS.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which
shall constitute an original and all of which, when taken together, shall
constitute one agreement. 

18.      GOVERNING
LAW; CONSULTATION WITH COUNSEL. This Agreement shall be construed under and
governed by the laws of the State of Georgia. Executive has been advised to
consult with an attorney, acknowledges having had ample opportunity to do so and
fully understands the binding effect of this Agreement. In this regard,
Executive acknowledges that a copy of this Agreement was provided to Executive
for review and consideration for up to twenty-two (22) days. Further, Executive
understands that this Agreement may be revoked by Executive within seven (7)
days from the date of execution of this Agreement. Executive further
acknowledges that he is a sophisticated businessperson and that given his
opportunity to review, negotiate and reject this Agreement, has bargaining power
equal to that of Company. Therefore, the provisions of this Agreement shall not
be construed against Company. 

19.      DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meaning
specified below: 

(a)      "AFFILIATED
COMPANIES" shall mean those subsidiaries and affiliates of Company listed on
Exhibit "D" attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference and any
direct successors to those companies through acquisition or merger or by way of
name change. 

(b)      "BASE
SALARY" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3 of this
Agreement. 

(c)      "CAUSE"
shall mean Executive's (i) engaging in an act (or acts) of willful dishonesty
involving Cingular, Company or other Affiliated Companies or their business(es)
that is demonstrably injurious to Cingular, Company or other Affiliated
Companies; or (ii) conviction of a crime classified as a felony. 

(d)      "CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 6 of this
Agreement. 

(e)      "DISABILITY"
shall mean an illness, injury or other incapacity which qualifies Executive for
long-term disability benefits under the principal management long-term
disability plan of Company. 

(f)      "EFFECTIVE
DATE" shall mean the date on which this Agreement is executed by the Parties as
set forth on page 1 hereinabove. 

(g)      "GOOD
REASON" shall mean, without Executive's express written consent, any of the
following circumstances: (i) a material diminution in the status or
responsibilities of Executive's position from those which existed immediately
prior to such diminution; (ii) a reduction in Executive's Base Salary as in
effect immediately prior to such reduction, or the failure to pay a bonus award
to which Executive is otherwise entitled under any of the short term or long
term incentive plans in which Executive participates (or any successor incentive
compensation plans) at the time such awards are usually paid; (iii) Executive
becoming entitled to types or amounts of other compensation and benefits which
are materially less (or materially less valuable) than the types or amounts of
such compensation and benefits provided to other similarly situated officers; or
(iv) a change in the principal place of Executive's employment requiring
relocation outside the Atlanta, Georgia, metropolitan area. 

(h)      "PERSON"
shall mean any individual, corporation, limited liability entity, bank,
partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust,
unincorporated organization, governmental or other legal or business
entity. 

(i)      "SERP"
shall mean the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as
amended from time to time. 

(j)      "SERVICES"
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 7 of this
Agreement. 

(k)      "TERRITORY"
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 7 of this
Agreement. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly
authorized representative, and Executive has executed this Agreement, as of the
date written above. 

EXECUTIVE:                                           BELLSOUTH
CORPORATION 

Rafael de
la
Vega                                      By:
Richard D. Sibbernsen 

      --------------------------                               ----------------------------------- 

      Rafael de
la
Vega                                     Title:
Vice President - Human Resources 

EXHIBIT
"A" 

RELEASE
AGREEMENT 

For
and in consideration of the mutual promises contained in the Agreement entered
into on the __ day of __________, 2003, between Rafael de la Vega ("Executive")
and BellSouth Corporation ("Company"), Executive does hereby, for himself, his
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, release and forever discharge
Company, its subsidiary, affiliated and associated companies, and any employee,
officer, director, representative, agent, successor or assign of any such
entity, and all persons acting by, through and under or in concert with any of
them (both in their personal and official capacities), from any and all claims,
demands, actions, causes of action, remedies, suits, obligations, damages,
losses, costs and expenses, of whatever kind or nature, whether under common
law, state law, federal law or otherwise, including without limitation the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, through
the  date of this Release Agreement, including without limitation
those arising from or in connection with the terms and conditions of Executive's
employment with Company and any subsidiary, affiliated and associated companies,
or the termination of Executive's employment. This Release is not intended to
affect benefits to which Executive may be entitled under any pension, savings,
health, welfare or other benefit plan in which Executive is a
participant. 

Executive
covenants and agrees not to make or file any claim, demand or cause of action or
seek any remedy of whatever nature, whether under common law, state law, federal
law or otherwise arising from or in connection with the matters discharged and
waived above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event Executive files a
charge or lawsuit under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967
("ADEA") and thereby challenges the validity of the release described herein,
such charge or lawsuit will not be considered a breach of this
provision. 

Executive
has been advised to consult with an attorney, acknowledges having had ample
opportunity to do so, and fully understands the binding effect of this Release
Agreement. Executive acknowledges that a copy of this Release Agreement was
provided to him on __________, 20__, for review and consideration for up to
twenty-two (22) days. Executive understands that this Release may be revoked by
him within seven (7) days from the date of execution of this Release
Agreement. 

Executive
agrees that this Agreement shall be construed under and governed by the laws of
the State of Georgia. 

Executive
now states that the only consideration for his signing this Release Agreement is
the mutual promises and payment of the sum described above; that no other
promises or agreements of any kind or nature have been made to, or with, him by
Company or its agents to cause him to sign this Release Agreement, and that
Executive fully understands the meaning and intent of this
instrument. 

WITNESS
my hand and seal this ____ day of __________, 20___. 

________________________________ 

                                                               RAFAEL
DE LA VEGA 

A-1 

EXHIBIT
"B" 

GEOGRAPHIC
TERRITORY 

LATIN
AMERICA 

Argentina
(Nationwide) 

      Chile
(Nationwide) 

      Colombia
(Nationwide) 

      Ecuador
(Nationwide) 

      Guatemala
(Nationwide) 

      Nicaragua
(Managua and the Pacific Coast) 

      Panama
(Nationwide) 

      Peru
(Nationwide) 

      Uruguay
(Abiatar - Coastal Corridor) 

      Venezuela
(Nationwide) 

UNITED
STATES 

Alabama:          Jefferson
and Shelby Counties (Birmingham) 

Mobile County (Mobile) 

Florida:          Broward
and Dade Counties (Miami-Ft. Lauderdale) 

                            Palm
Beach County (West Palm Beach) 

Georgia:          Fulton,
DeKalb, Cobb and Gwinnett Counties (Atlanta) 

Kentucky:         Jefferson
County (Louisville) 

Louisiana:        Jefferson
and Orleans Parishes (New Orleans) 

                              East
Baton Rouge, Ascension and Livingston Parishes 

                             (Baton
Rouge) 

Mississippi:      Hinds,
Madison and Rankin Counties (Jackson) 

North
Carolina:   Mecklenburg County (Charlotte) 

                                 Wake
County (Raleigh) 

South
Carolina:   Anderson, Greenville and Spartanburg Counties
(Greenville) 

                                  Richland
and Lexington Counties (Columbia) 

Tennessee:        Davidson
County (Nashville) 

                                Shelby
County (Memphis) 

B-1 

EXHIBIT
"C" 

NOTICES 

To
Company:       Charles R. Morgan 

                        Executive
Vice President and 

                        General
Counsel 

                        BellSouth
Corporation 

                        Suite
2002 

                        1155
Peachtree Street, N.E. 

                        Atlanta,
Georgia 30309-3610 

To
Executive:     Rafael de la Vega 

                        8965
Old Southwick Pass 

                        Alpharetta,
Georgia 30022 

C-1 

EXHIBIT
"D" 

Domestic 

BellSouth
Telecommunications, Inc. 

                                 BellSouth
Enterprises, Inc. 

                                    Cingular
Wireless LLC 

                                BellSouth
Long Distance, Inc. 

                       BellSouth
Advertising   Publishing Corporation 

                      L.M.
Berry and Company (d/b/a The Berry Company) 

International 

Abiatar
S.A. 

                                BellSouth
Chile S.A. 

                                BellSouth
Colombia S.A. 

                                BellSouth
Comunicaciones S.A. 

                                BellSouth
Guatemala y Compania, S.C.A. 

                                BellSouth
International, Inc. 

                                BellSouth
Inversiones S.A. 

                                BellSouth
Panama S.A. 

                                BellSouth
Peru, S.A. 

                                BellSouth
Shanghai Centre, Ltd. 

                                CellCom
Israel Ltd. 

                                Compania
de Radiocomunicaciones Moviles S.A. 

                                Compania
de Telefonos del Plata S.A. 

                                Otecel
S.A. 

                                SONOFON
A/S 

                                StarMedia
Network, Inc. 

                                Telcel
C.A. 

                                Telefonia
Celular de Nicaragua, S.A. 

D-1 

</EX-10.S>

<EX-10.U>
 15
 ex10u.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN SBC AND EDWARD E WHITACRE JR

ex10u.htm 

Exhibit 10-u  

       EMPLOYMENT
AGREEMENT  

THIS
AGREEMENT ("Agreement") by and between SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware
corporation ("SBC"), SBC MANAGEMENT SERVICES, L.P. (the "Company") and EDWARD E.
WHITACRE, JR. ("Employee") is effective the 16th day of November,
2001. 

WITNESSETH THAT:  

WHEREAS,
Employee presently is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of SBC
and possesses executive skills and experience which SBC acknowledges are of
substantial value and importance to the success of SBC s present and future
business operations; and 

WHEREAS,
SBC, the Company and Employee desire to provide for the terms and conditions
upon which Employee will continue in the employ and service of SBC and the
Company, 

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and agreements
herein set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows: 

1.           Employment and
Duties . The Company hereby employs Employee, and Employee agrees to
continue in the employ of the Company, for the term herein specified (the
 Employment Term ). During the Employment Term, Employee shall serve SBC and the
Company as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and shall devote
his full time, attention and effort to the business and affairs of SBC and its
affiliates. 

2.           Term . Subject to
Section 4 below, the Employment Term shall be a five (5) year period commencing
November 16, 2001 and ending November 15, 2006; provided, however, upon
notice provided by either party to the other within 60 days prior to the
second anniversary of this Agreement, the Employment Term shall end on the third
anniversary of this Agreement. 

3.           Consideration, Benefits and
Compensation.  

a.          Consideration . In
consideration of Employee s agreement to enter into this Agreement and to make
the non-compete, non-solicitation and confidentiality covenants provided in
Section 7, SBC agrees to make a one-time grant to Employee of 2,500,000 SBC
options with an exercise price equal to the closing price of SBC Communications
Inc. stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the effective date hereof. The
options shall be granted under the 2001 Incentive Plan or another plan of SBC or
as a special grant having terms substantially similar to the 2001 Incentive
Plan. The terms of this agreement shall supercede any conflicting terms
contained in any such grant. The options shall only vest upon completion of the
earliest to occur of: (A) the end of the fifth (5th) year of the Employment
Term; however, three-fifths (3/5) of the options shall vest after the first
three (3) years of the Employment Term; (B) termination of the Employee s
employment due to death or Disability, as that term is used in the 2001
Incentive Plan; (C) a change in control, as that term is used in the 2001
Incentive Plan; or (D) in the event the Company terminates the employment
of Employee without Cause. In the event the Employee voluntarily terminates his
employment prior to the end of the first 3 years of the Employment Term, he
shall forfeit all options under this grant. In the event the Employee
voluntarily terminates his employment prior to the end of the Employment Term
but after the first three years of the Employment Term, he shall forfeit
unvested options under this grant. 

b.          Benefits . In
consideration of Employee s provision of services to SBC and the Company
throughout his career with SBC and its affiliates, SBC agrees to continue to
provide to Employee, for the duration of Employee s life, (i) health and welfare
benefits on terms and conditions that are at least equivalent to the health and
welfare benefits provided to Employee and his eligible dependents as of the date
of this Agreement, (the employee s spouse shall also be eligible to receive
company provided health and welfare benefits on terms no less favorable than
exist as of the date of employee s retirement in the event employee shall
pre-decease her) and (ii) access to and U.S. domestic use of SBC s aircraft for
a maximum of ten (10) hours per month, office facilities and support staff, and
an automobile or automobile benefits at least equivalent to those provided to
Employee as of the date of this Agreement; provided, however, Employee shall be
responsible for the payment of all taxes incurred by him because of personal use
of such aircraft. 

c.          Compensation . In
order that SBC and the Company may continue to benefit from Employee s
experience, knowledge, reputation and contacts and in consideration of his
services, Employee shall earn and the Company shall pay, during each calendar
year of the Employment Term, base salary to be set by the SBC Board of
Directors, which shall not be less than the rate of base salary earned by
Employee during calendar year 2001, and, during the Employment Term, Employee s
short-term and long-term targets shall not be less than his short-term and
long-term targets for calendar year 2001. In addition, Employee shall
participate in SBC s health and welfare, pension and other benefit plans and
programs applicable generally to employees of SBC and its affiliates, and in any
fringe benefit programs presently existing or hereafter adopted for the benefit
of executive employees of SBC and its affiliates that are commensurate with
Employee s position. In the event that any of such programs require future
action by the Board of Directors of SBC or a Committee of such Board (for
example, as in the case of future stock grants, stock option grants, or long
term incentive programs), Employee shall be a candidate for participation in
such programs commensurate with Employee s position on the basis applicable to
other eligible executive employees of SBC and its affiliates. SBC and the
Company may, from time to time, also consider the award of other forms of
compensation to Employee. 

4.           Effect of Termination of
Employment . The Employment Term and, except as provided in this Section
4, Employee s right to salary and compensation (including benefits) as provided
for in Section 3(c) shall terminate only (a) upon the expiration of the
Employment Term pursuant to Section 2, (b) if Employee shall die during the
Employment Term, (c) if Employee shall voluntarily terminate his employment, or
(d) if Employee s employment is terminated for Cause during the Employment Term.
The Company reserves the right to terminate the employment of Employee for any
other reason not specified in the preceding sentence, but in such case, the
Company shall be obligated to continue to provide Employee with the salary and
compensation through the end of the then current Employment Term and to pay fees
and benefits during the consulting period described below. 

For
purposes of this Agreement, the term Cause shall mean (i) a willful failure or
refusal of Employee to perform his employment or consulting duties and
obligations hereunder; (ii) any fraud, embezzlement or other dishonesty of
Employee, or (iii) the conviction of Employee of a felony committed in the
performance by him of services on behalf of SBC or its affiliates. 

Employee s
right to salary and compensation (including benefits) shall not be limited or
affected by any illness or disability of Employee, or on account of any accident
or other event (except as provided herein) which either temporarily or
permanently, or wholly or partially, shall prevent Employee from performing his
employment duties hereunder. 

Employee
shall continue to participate, so long as he continues in the employ of the
Company or any affiliate of SBC, in employee benefit plans and other fringe
benefit programs available to employees generally and to any group or class of
employees to which he belongs on the same terms and conditions applicable to
employees generally or to such group or class of employees, as the case may
be. 

5.           Consulting . Employee
agrees that commencing upon Retirement, provided he has completed as least three
(3) years of the Employment Term, he will provide consulting services and advice
to SBC when and as reasonably requested by the Chief Executive Officer or by the
Board of Directors of SBC until the earliest of the third anniversary of
Employee s Retirement or the Employee s death (the  Consulting Term ). In
consideration of such services, SBC or its affiliates shall, pay Employee an
annual consulting fee equal to 50% of his annual rate of base salary in effect
at his Retirement (the  Consulting Fee ), payable in monthly installments. In
addition to the benefits specified in Section 3(b), SBC shall provide Employee
continued access during the Consulting Term to SBC s facilities and services
comparable to those provided to him prior to his Retirement, including club
memberships, financial planning, automobile or allowance therefore, and an
office and support staff (collectively referred to as  Consulting Benefits ), on
the same basis as such facilities and services were provided to Employee prior
to his Retirement. During the Consulting Term, SBC shall also reimburse
Employee, upon the receipt of appropriate documentation, for reasonable
expenses, which he incurs in providing such consulting services at the request
of the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors of SBC. During the
Consulting Term, Employee and SBC agree and acknowledge that Employee shall be
an independent contractor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event his
employment is terminated for Cause during the Employment Term, the obligation to
perform consulting services and advice shall not begin and the Company shall not
be obligated to pay Employee any fees, benefits, or expenses. 

The
Consulting Term and Employee s right to the Consulting Fee and Consulting
Benefits as provided for in this Section 5 shall terminate only (a) upon the
expiration of the Consulting Term pursuant to this Section 5, (b) if Employee
shall die during the Consulting Term, or (c) if Employee s consulting
arrangement is terminated by SBC for Cause during the Consulting Term.
Employee s right to the Consulting Fee and Consulting Benefits shall not be
limited or affected by any illness or disability of Employee, or on account of
any accident or other event (except as provided herein) which either temporarily
or permanently, or wholly or partially, shall prevent Employee from performing
his consulting duties hereunder. 

6.           Change of Control .
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event that Employee
receives a payment pursuant to that certain change in control/severance
agreement between Employee and SBC dated March 1, 1989, as amended in an
agreement dated March 25, 1998, as a result of a  change in control of the
Corporation  (as that term is defined in such change in control/severance
agreement, as amended), the Employment Term shall expire on the date such
payment is made; provided, however, the number of days in the Employment Term
that expire pursuant to this Section 6 shall be added to the Consulting Term,
whereupon the Employee shall be entitled to receive the Consulting Fees and
Consulting Benefits as described in Section 5 during the Consulting Term as
extended by this Section 6. 

7.           Non-Disclosure,
Non-Solicitation and Non-Compete Agreements . Employee agrees that he will
not disclose to any other firm or person any of SBC s or its affiliates  trade
secrets or any confidential information relating to its or their business.
Employee further agrees that, for the three year period commencing upon the
expiration of the Employment Term (but excepting any period following a
termination by SBC with Cause), or if longer, at any time during the Consulting
Term, he will not without the prior consent of SBC, (a) enter the employ of, or
have any material interest in, directly or indirectly, any business in this
country in competition with SBC or any of its affiliates, (b) contact, solicit
or attempt to solicit, directly or indirectly any customer of SBC or any of its
affiliates, or (c) induce, directly or indirectly, any personnel of SBC or any
of its affiliates to leave SBC or any of its affiliates nor interfere with the
faithful discharge by such personnel of their duties to serve SBC or its
affiliates. 

8           Miscellaneous. 
Neither this Agreement nor any rights hereunder shall be assignable by either
party hereto. 

This Agreement shall be construed and
interpreted under the laws of the State of Texas. If any payments or benefits
provided by SBC, the Company or any of their respective affiliates to Employee
are subject to golden parachute excise tax, then SBC shall make Employee whole
for such excise taxes on an after-tax basis. Any dispute arising out of or
relating to this Agreement, except any dispute by SBC arising out of or relating
to matters addressed in Section 7, shall be settled by final and binding
arbitration, which shall be the exclusive means of resolving any such dispute,
and the parties specifically waive all rights to pursue any other remedy,
recourse or relief. Any such arbitration shall be expedited and conducted in San
Antonio, Texas and shall be governed by the United States Arbitration Act, 9
U.S.C. Section 1-16, and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitration may
be entered by any court having jurisdiction. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have
executed this Agreement, as amended, this 16  th   day of November,
2001. 

SBC COMMUNICATIONS
INC.  

       SBC MANAGEMENT SERVICES,
L.P.  

By:  /s/ Jess T.
Hay  

      Printed
Name: Jess T. Hay 

      Its:
Chairman, Human Resources 

      Committee
of the Board of Directors 

EMPLOYEE  

/s/ Edward E. Whitacre,
Jr.  

      Edward E.
Whitacre, Jr. 

</EX-10.U>

<EX-10.BB>
 16
 ex10bb.htm
 STOCK PURCHASE AND DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10bb.htm 

Exhibit 10-bb  

       AT T  INC.  

STOCK PURCHASE AND DEFERRAL
PLAN  

Adopted
November 19, 2004 

      As
amended through November 15, 2007 

Article 1 - Statement of
Purpose  

The
purpose of the Stock Purchase and Deferral Plan ( Plan ) is to increase stock
ownership by, and to provide savings opportunities to, a select group of
management employees of AT T Inc. ( AT T ) and its
Subsidiaries. 

Article 2 -
Definitions  

For the
purpose of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context indicates otherwise: 

Base
Compensation.   The following types of cash-based compensation
paid by an Employer (but not including payments made by a non-Employer, such as
state disability payments), before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to
this Plan or reduction pursuant to any deferral plan of an Employer, including
but not limited to a plan that includes a qualified cash or deferral arrangement
under Section 401(k) of the Code: 

(a)   

base
      salary; 

(b)  
               lump
      sum payments in lieu of a base salary
  increase;  and  

(c)  
                 Team
      Award.  

Payments
by an Employer under a disability plan made in lieu of any compensation
described above, shall be deemed to be a part of the respective form of
compensation it replaces for purposes of this definition.  Base
Compensation does not include zone allowances or any other geographical
differential and shall not include payments made in lieu of unused vacation or
other paid days off, and such payments shall not be contributed to this
Plan. 

Determinations
by AT T (the Committee with respect to Officer Level Employees) of the items
that make up Base Compensation shall be final.  The Committee may,
from time to time, add or subtract types of compensation to or from the
definition of  Base Compensation  provided, however, any such addition or
subtraction shall be effective only with respect to the next period in which a
Participant may make an election to establish a Share Deferral
Account. 

Business Day.   Any
day during regular business hours that AT T is open for
business. 

Change in
Control.   With respect to AT T s direct and indirect
ownership of an Employer, a  Change in the effective control of a Corporation, 
as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)(A)(1), regardless
of whether the Employer is a corporation or non corporate entity as permitted by
the regulation, and using  50 percent  in lieu of  30 percent  in such
regulation.  A Change in Control will not apply to AT T
itself. 

Page
1 

Chief Executive
Officer.   The Chief Executive Officer of AT T
Inc. 

Code.   References to
the Code shall be to provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended,
including regulations promulgated thereunder and successor
provisions.  Similarly, references to regulations shall include
amendments and successor provisions. 

Committee.   The
Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of AT T
Inc. 

Disability.  Absence of an
Employee from work with an Employer under the relevant Employer's disability
plan. 

Eligible
Employee.   An Employee who: 

      (a) is a
full or part time, salaried Employee of AT T or an Employer in which
AT T has a direct or indirect 100% ownership interest and who is on active
duty, Disability (but only while such Employee is deemed by the Employer to be
an Employee of such Employer) or Leave of Absence; 

(b) is,
as determined by AT T, a member of Employer's  select group of management or
highly compensated employees  within the meaning of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder ( ERISA ),
which is deemed to include each Officer Level Employee; and 

(c) has
an employment status which has been approved by AT T to be eligible to
participate in this Plan or is an Officer Level Employee. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, AT T (the Committee with respect to Officer Level Employees)
may, from time to time, exclude any Employee or group of Employees from being
deemed an  Eligible Employee  under this Plan. 

In the
event a court or other governmental authority determines that an individual was
improperly excluded from the class of persons who would be permitted to make
Employee Contributions during a particular time for any reason, that individual
shall not be permitted to make such contributions for purposes of the Plan for
the period of time prior to such determination. 

Employee.   Any
person employed by an Employer and paid on an Employer s payroll system,
excluding persons hired for a fixed maximum term and excluding persons who are
neither citizens nor permanent residents of the United States, all as determined
by AT T.   For
purposes of this Plan, a person on Leave of Absence who otherwise would be an
Employee shall be deemed to be an Employee. 

Employee
Contributions.   Amounts credited to a Share Deferral Account
pursuant to Section 4.1 (Election to Make Contributions) of the
Plan. 

Employer.   AT T
Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries. 

Exercise Price.   The
price per share of Stock purchasable under an Option. 

Page
2 

Fair Market Value or
FMV.   In valuing Stock or any other item subject to valuation
under this Plan, the Committee may use such index or measurement as the
Committee may reasonably determine from time to time, and such index or
measurement shall be the FMV of such Stock or other item, provided that for
purposes of determining the Exercise Price of Stock Options, the Committee shall
use a value consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.  In the
absence of such action by the Committee, FMV means, with respect to Stock, the
closing price on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) of the Stock on the
relevant date, or if on such date the Stock is not traded on the NYSE, then the
closing price on the immediately preceding date such Stock is so
traded. 

Leave of
Absence.   Where a person is absent from employment with an
Employer on a leave of absence, military leave, or sick leave, where the leave
is given in order to prevent a break in the continuity of term of employment,
and permission for such leave is granted (and not revoked) in conformity with
the rules of the Employer that employs the individual, as adopted from time to
time and the Employee is reasonably expected to return to
service.  Except as set forth below, the leave shall not exceed six
(6) months for purposes of this Plan, and the Employee shall Terminate
Employment upon termination of such leave if the Employee does not return to
work prior to or upon expiration of such six (6) month period, unless the
individual retains a right to reemployment under law or by
contract.  A twenty-nine (29) month limitation shall apply in lieu of
such six (6) month limitation if the leave is due to the Employee being
"disabled" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation
 1.409A-3(i)(4)).  A Leave of Absence shall not commence or shall be
deemed to cease under the Plan where the Employee has incurred a Termination of
Employment. 

Officer Level
Employee.   Any executive officer of AT T, as that term is
used under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any Employee
that is an  officer level  Employee for compensation purposes as shown on the
records of AT T. 

Options or Stock
Options.   Options to purchase Stock issued pursuant to this
Plan. 

Participant.   An
Employee or former Employee who participates in this Plan. 

Plan Year.   Each of
the following shall be a Plan Year:  the period January 1, 2005,
through January 15, 2006; the period January 16, 2006, through December 31,
2006; and, for all later Plan Years, it is defined as the period from January 1
through December 31. 

Retirement or
Retire.   Termination of Employment on or after the earlier of
the following dates, unless otherwise provided by the Committee:  (a)
for Officer Level Employees, the date the Participant is at least age 55 and has
five (5) years of Net Credited Service; or (b) the date the Participant has
attained one of the following combinations of age and Net Credited
Service: 

Net Credited
Service                                              Age 

                            10
years or
more                                                      65
or older 

                            20
years or
more                                                      55
or older 

                            25
years or
more                                                      50
or older 

                            30
years or
more                                                      Any
age 

Alternative
(a) above will not apply for purposes of determining Retirement for making
Employee Contributions of Short Term Incentive Awards.  For purposes
of this Plan only, Net Credited Service shall be calculated in the same manner
as  Pension Eligibility Service  under the AT T Pension Benefit Plan  
Nonbargained Program ( Pension Plan ), as amended from time to time, except that
service with an Employer shall be counted as though the Employer were a
 Participating Company  under the Pension Plan and the Employee was a
participant in the Pension Plan. 

Page
3 

Shares or Share
Units.   An accounting entry representing the right to receive
an equivalent number of shares of Stock. 

Share Deferral Account  or  Account.    The
Account or Accounts established annually by an election by a Participant to make
Employee Contributions to the Plan, with each Account relating to a Plan
Year.  For each Plan Year after 2008, there shall be (1) a separate
Share Deferral Account for Share Units purchased with Employee Contributions of
Base Compensation (excluding Team Award) and related Matching Share Units and
(2) a separate Share Deferral Account for Share Units purchased with Employee
Contributions of Short Term Incentive Award and/or Team Award and related
Matching Share Units.  Earnings Share Units and Matching Share Units
shall accrue to the respective Share Deferral Accounts where they are
earned. 

Short Term Incentive
Award.   A cash award paid by an Employer (and not by a
non-Employer, such as state disability payments) under the Short Term Incentive
Plan or any successor plan; an award under a similar  plan intended by
the Committee to be in lieu of an award under such Short Term Incentive Plan,
including, but not limited to, Performance Units granted under the 2001
Incentive Plan or any successor plan.  It shall also include any other
award that the Committee designates as a Short Term Incentive Award specifically
for purposes of this Plan (regardless of the purpose of the award) provided the
deferral election is made in accordance with Section 409A. 

Specified
Employee .  Any Participant who is a  Key Employee  (as defined
in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), as determined
by AT T in accordance with its uniform policy with respect to all
arrangements subject to Code Section 409A, based upon the 12-month period ending
on each December 31st (such 12-month period is referred to below as the
 identification period ).  All Participants who are determined to be
Key Employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5)
thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Key Employees for
purposes of the Plan during the 12-month period that begins on the first day of
the 4th month following the close of such identification period. 

Stock.   The common
stock of AT T Inc. 

Subsidiary.   Any
corporation, partnership, venture or other entity or business with which
AT T would be considered a single employer under Sections 414(a) and (c) of
the Code, using 50% as the ownership threshold as provided under Section 409A of
the Code. 

Team Award.   The
annual award determined to be the  Team Award  by AT T, together with any
individual award determined by AT T to be the Individual Discretionary Award
made in connection therewith or comparable awards, if any, determined by
AT T to be used in lieu of these awards. 

Termination of Employment. 
References herein to  Termination of Employment,"  Terminate Employment  or a
similar reference, shall mean the event where the Employee has a  separation
from service,  as defined under Section 409A, with all Employers. For purposes
of this Plan, a Termination of Employment with respect to an
Employer  shall be deemed to occur when such Employer incurs a Change
in Control. 

Page
4 

Article 3 - Administration of the
Plan  

3.1             The Committee . 

      Except as
delegated by this Plan or by the Committee, the Committee shall be the
administrator of the Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and
apply its provisions and determine all questions of administration,
interpretation and application of the Plan, including, without limitation,
questions and determinations of eligibility, entitlement to benefits and payment
of benefits, all in its sole and absolute discretion.  The Committee
may further establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations and such
additional terms and conditions regarding participation in the Plan as it may
deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the
Plan.  References in this Plan to determinations or other actions by
AT T, herein, shall mean actions authorized by the Committee, the Chief
Executive Officer, the Senior Executive Vice President of AT T in charge of
Human Resources, or their respective successors or duly authorized delegates, in
each case in the discretion of such person.  All decisions by the
Committee, its delegate or AT T, as applicable, shall be final and
binding. 

3.2           Authorized
Shares of Stock.  

      (a)
Except as provided below, the number of shares of Stock which may be distributed
pursuant to the Plan, exclusive of Article 8 - Options, is
21,000,000.  The number of shares of Stock which may be issued
pursuant to the exercise of Stock Options is 34,000,000 (together with an equal
number of Stock Options).  Only the actual number of shares of Stock
that are issued (shares issued would not include, for example, any reduction in
shares to be issued as a result of tax withholding in connection with a
distribution of Stock, exercise of options, or otherwise) shall be counted
against the authorized number of shares of Stock. To the extent an Option issued
under this Plan is canceled, terminates, expires, or lapses for any reason, such
Option shall again be available for issuance under the
Plan.  Conversions of Stock awards into Share Units and their eventual
distribution (excluding the effects of any dividends on such Share Units) shall
count only against the limits of the plans from which they originated and shall
not be applied against the limits in this Plan.  To the extent Share
Units are credited through deferrals of Stock or Employee Contributions where
the distribution of which would be deductible by AT T under Section 162(m)
of the Code without regard to the size of the distribution, and such deductible
Share Units are available for distribution, such Share Units shall be
distributed first. 

(b)  In
the event the Committee determines that continuing the issuance of Share Units
under the Plan or Stock Options under the Plan may cause the number of shares of
Stock that are to be distributed under this Plan or the number of Stock Options
(as determined pursuant to subsection (a), above) to exceed the number of
authorized shares of Stock, then in lieu of distributing Stock, the Committee
may provide after such determination and only with respect to Share Units that
have not theretofore been credited to a Share Deferral Account, that such Share
Units may be settled in cash equal to the value of the Stock that would
otherwise be distributed based on the FMV of the Stock on the date of the
distribution of such Share Unit.  The Committee may also provide after
such determination and only with respect to Stock Options that have not
theretofore been issued that such Stock Options may only be settled on a
Net-Settled basis in cash equal to the value of the Stock that would otherwise
be distributed based on the FMV of the Stock on the day of
exercise. 

(c) In
the event of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization,
separation, liquidation, stock dividend, stock split, share combination, or
other change in the corporate structure of AT T affecting the shares of
Stock (including a conversion of Stock into cash or other property), such
adjustment shall be made to the number and class of the shares of Stock which
may be delivered under the Plan (including but not limited to individual
limits), and in the number and class of and/or price of shares of Stock subject
to outstanding Options granted under the Plan, and/or in the number of
outstanding Options and Share Units, or such other adjustment determined by the
Committee, in each case as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable by
the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of
rights. 

Page
5 

3.3           Claims
Procedure.  

      Subject
to the authority of the Committee over the Plan, AT T shall appoint a Claims
Board to adjudicate claims brought by or in respect to Participants and their
beneficiaries relating to benefits under the Plan.  A Participant may
apply in writing to the Claims Board to make a claim under this
Plan.  The Claims Board shall provide written notice within 90 days to
a Participant whose claim hereunder has been denied, setting forth reasons for
such denial or explaining that an extension of the time for processing the claim
is necessary, written in a manner calculated to be understood by such
person.  After receipt of such notice, or expiration of 90 days
without any response from the Claims Board, the Participant may appeal the
decision in writing to the Senior Executive Vice President of AT T in charge
of Human Resources, or to the person s successor, within 90 days, except that if
the Participant is an Insider, as that term is used in the 2001 Incentive Plan,
then the Participant's appeal shall be to the Committee.  The
Participant shall receive written notice within 60 days of the resolution of the
appeal, and if denied, setting forth reasons for the denial or explaining that
an extension of time for processing the appeal is necessary, written in a manner
calculated to be understood by such person.  If no notice of the
decision on the Participant s appeal is furnished within the required time
frame, the appeal will be deemed denied. The Participant shall receive a full
and fair review of the decision denying the claim in accordance with the
requirements of ERISA. 

All
interpretations, determinations and decisions of the Claims Board with respect
to any claim, including without limitation the appeal of any claim, shall be
made by the Claims Board, in its sole discretion, based on the Plan and
comments, documents, records, and other information presented to it, and shall
be final, conclusive and binding. 

The
claims procedures set forth in this section are intended to comply with United
States Department of Labor Regulation   2560.503-1 and should be construed
in accordance with such regulation.  In no event shall it be
interpreted as expanding the rights of claimants beyond what is required by
United States Department of Labor Regulation   2560.503-1. 

Article 4 -
Contributions  

4.1             Election to Make
Contributions.  

      (a)      The
Committee shall establish dates and other conditions for participation in the
Plan and making contributions as it deems appropriate.  Except as
otherwise provided by the Committee, each year an Employee who is an Eligible
Employee as of September 30 may thereafter make an election on or prior to the
last Business Day of the immediately following November to contribute on a
pre-tax basis, through payroll deductions, any combination of the
following: 

(1)  From
6% to 30% (in whole percentage increments) of the Participant s monthly Base
Compensation, other than Team Award, during the calendar year (the Plan Year for
such contributions) following the calendar year of such election.  The
Employee Contributions shall be used to acquire Share Units to be credited to
the Share Deferral Account for that Plan Year.  Participants who, at
the time of the determination of their eligibility to participate in an Account,
are paid through a  sales plan  involving the use of commissions may elect to
contribute up to 40% of Base Compensation. 

Page
6 

(2)  Up
to 100% (in whole percentage increments or in dollars) of a Short Term Incentive
Award (with any contribution of the discretionary award related thereto
determined separately by the Employee), or up to 30% (in whole percentage
increments) of a Team Award,  in each case such contributions shall be
made during the second calendar year (which is the Plan Year for such
contributions) following the year of such election.  An Employee may
make such an election with respect to the type of Award (Short Term Incentive
Award or Team Award) that the Employee is under as of the time the Employee s
eligibility to make such election is determined.  If because of a
promotion or otherwise, the Employee receives a different type of Award instead
of, or in partial or full replacement for, the type of Award subject to the
Employee s election for the relevant Plan Year, the election will apply to the
other Award as well, except that the discretionary award related to the Short
Term Incentive Award will not be affected by or affect a Team Award
election. 

(b)  The Committee may permit
an Eligible Employee to make an election to purchase Share Units under this Plan
with compensation other than Base Compensation or Short Term Incentive Awards on
such terms and conditions as such Committee may permit from time to time,
provided that any such election is made in accordance with Section
409A.  In no event shall an acquisition of Share Units pursuant to
this paragraph (b) or pursuant to the conversion of a right to receive Stock
into Share Units (such as through a distribution of Stock under the 2001
Incentive Plan) result in the crediting of an AT T Matching Contribution or
Options. 

(c)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, no election shall be
effective to the extent it would permit an Employee Contribution or distribution
to be made that is not in compliance with Section 409A of the
Code.  To the extent such election related to Employee Contributions
that complied with such statute and regulations thereunder, that portion of the
election shall remain valid, except as otherwise provided under this
Plan. 

(d)  To
the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, AT T may refuse or
terminate, in whole or in part, any election to purchase Share Units in the Plan
at any time; provided, however, that only the Committee may take such action
with respect to persons who are Officer Level Employees. 

(e)  In
the event the Participant takes a hardship withdrawal from a benefit plan
qualified under the Code and sponsored by an Employer, any election to make
Employee Contributions by such Participant shall be cancelled on a prospective
basis, and the Participant shall not be permitted to make a new election with
respect to Employee Contributions that would be contributed during the then
current and immediately following calendar year. 

4.2           Purchase
of Share Units.  

      (a)
Employee Contributions (as well as any corresponding AT T Matching
Contributions) shall be made solely pursuant to a proper election and only
during the Employee's lifetime and while the Participant remains an Employee and
the Participant s Employer has not incurred a Change in Control; provided,
however, with respect to Employee Contribution elections made prior to 2007, the
Employee must remain an Eligible Employee while making any such
contributions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Termination of
Employment of an Employee shall not result in the cancellation of an election to
make Employee Contributions solely with respect to contribution of annual base
salary earned prior to Termination but paid within 60 days thereafter or with
respect to a Short Term Incentive Award paid after Retirement (and such person
shall be deemed an Employee for such contributions). 

Page
7 

(b)  The
number of Share Units purchased by a Participant during a calendar month shall
be found by dividing the Participant's Employee Contributions during the month
by the FMV of a share of Stock on the last day of such month. 

(c)  A
contribution to the Plan shall be made when the compensation   from which the
contribution is to be deducted   is paid ( paid,  as used in this Plan, includes
amounts contributed to the Plan that would have been paid were it not for an
election under this Plan) using the "check date" shown on the related pay record
(sometimes referred to as the "paycheck stub") as the contribution date (if no
"check date" is shown, then the date of the pay record).  Where there
has been an overpayment of gross compensation, the amount of the overpayment
will not be considered in determining the contribution amount.  In no
event shall the Participant have any recourse against an Employer under this
Plan for any underpayment, overpayment or delayed or correcting payment of
compensation.  In the event a pay period (the period over which
services are rendered for the relevant compensation) relates to services
rendered during or before the taxable year of the relevant election, then only
the compensation relating to services performed in the calendar year following
the calendar year of the election may be contributed to this
Plan.  The Committee may modify or change this paragraph (c) from time
to time. 

4.3             Reinvestment of
Dividends.  

      In the
month containing a record date for a cash dividend on Stock, each Share Deferral
Account shall be credited with that number of Share Units equal to the declared
dividend per share of Stock, multiplied by the number of Share Units held in
such Share Deferral Account as of such record date, and dividing the product by
the FMV of a share of Stock on the last day of such month. 

Article 5 - AT T Matching
Contributions  

5.1             AT T Match.  

        (a) Each month AT T shall credit
the Participant's relevant Share Deferral Account with the number of  Matching
Share Units  found by taking eighty percent (80%) of the Participant's Employee
Contributions from Base Compensation made to this Plan and to the Cash Deferral
Plan during the month with respect to the first six percent (6%) of the
Participant s monthly Match Eligible Compensation (as defined below) and
dividing the resulting figure by the FMV of the Stock on the last day of such
month. The monthly  Match Eligible Compensation  shall be the sum
of: 

(1) the
monthly Employee Contributions from Base Compensation to this Plan and the Cash
Deferral Plan (in the aggregate,  Deferred BC ), plus 

      (2) the
amount of the Participant s monthly Base Compensation in excess of the Deferred
BC ( Non-Deferred BC ) but only to the extent such monthly Non-Deferred BC, when
aggregated with the Participant s total Non-Deferred BC for prior months in such
Plan Year, exceeds the limit in effect under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code
applicable with respect to such Plan Year. 

Page
8 

The
foregoing formula shall apply regardless of whether or not the Participant makes
contributions to a 401(k) plan. 

As provided in the definition of Share
Deferral Account, Matching Share Units shall be credited to the respective Share
Deferral Account that is related to the same form of Employee Contributions
(either (1) Base Compensation excluding Team Award or (2) Team
Award). 

(b) In the sole discretion of the
Committee, in the event the Committee reduces the number of Options that
AT T issues for each Share Unit purchased, the Committee may provide for the
contribution of a Bonus Matching Contribution on such terms as the Committee
determines.  Such Bonus Matching Contribution may not exceed 20% of
the Participant s Employee Contributions for the month.  The Bonus
Matching Contribution shall be subject to such terms and conditions as required
by the Committee and, unless otherwise provided by the Committee, to the same
vesting and distribution requirements as AT T Matching
Contributions. 

5.2             Vesting and Distribution of Share
Units Acquired with Matching Contributions . 

      A
Participant's Matching Share Units shall be distributed in a lump sum, in
accordance with the Plan's distribution provisions only upon becoming vested, in
the earlier of: (a) the calendar year following the calendar year of the
Termination of Employment of the Participant, or (b) the calendar year in which
the Participant reaches age 55, in each case only with respect to Matching Share
Units relating to Share Deferral Accounts for Plan Years before such
distribution calendar year. 

Matching
Share Units acquired as part of a Share Deferral Account that commences in or
after the calendar year the Employee reaches age 55 or after the calendar year
in which the Employee Terminates Employment will be distributed in the same
manner and time as other Share Units in such Share Deferral Account if not
otherwise forfeited. 

Upon the
Participant's Termination of Employment, all the Participant's unvested Share
Units shall be forfeited and shall not be reinstated if the Participant is
re-Employed. 

Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this section, Matching Share Units acquired in 2008
and later shall be distributed at the same time as other Share Units (including
those acquired with Employee Contributions) in the same Share Deferral
Account. 

Article 6 -
Distributions  

6.1  

Distributions of Share
      Units.  

(a)  Initial
Election with Respect to a Share Deferral Account.  At the time the
Participant makes an election to make Employee Contributions with respect to a
Share Deferral Account, the Participant shall also elect the calendar year the
Share Deferral Account shall be distributed, which may be from the first through
fifth calendar years after the Plan Year the Account commenced (except as
otherwise provided in this Plan with respect to Matching Share
Units).  For example, if an Account commenced in 2005, the Participant
may elect to commence the distribution in any calendar year from and including
2006 to and including 2010.  If no timely distribution election is
made by the Participant, then the Participant will be deemed to have made an
election to have the Share Deferral Account distributed in a single installment
in the first calendar year after the calendar year the Account
commenced.  However, for purposes of Initial Elections with respect to
Plan Years prior to 2008 only, in the event the Participant Terminates
Employment, the distribution of the Share Deferral Unit shall occur in the
calendar year following the calendar year of the Participant s Termination of
Employment unless the Employee has made an irrevocable election under (b),
below.  If the Participant Terminates Employment but has a Share
Deferral Account that commenced in the same year the Share Deferral Account
would be distributed, then that Account would instead distribute in the calendar
year following the year of the contribution.  For example, if a
Retirement eligible Employee Terminated Employment in 2005 after making an
election with regard to a Short Term Incentive Award to be paid in 2006, the
Share Deferral Account relating to that award would be distributed in
2007. 

Page
9 

(b)  Election
to Delay a Scheduled Distribution.  While an Employee, a Participant
may elect to defer a scheduled distribution of a Share Deferral Account for five
(5) additional calendar years beyond that previously elected (except as
otherwise provided in this Plan with respect to Matching Share
Units).  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the election to
defer the distribution must be made on or after the September 1, and on or
before the last Business Day of the next following December, of the calendar
year that is the second calendar year preceding the calendar year of the
relevant scheduled distribution.  For example, an election to defer a
scheduled distribution in 2010 must be made from September 1, 2008 through the
last business day of December 2008.  An election to defer the
distribution of a Share Deferral Account may not be made in the same calendar
year that the election to establish the Share Deferral Account is
made.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, (1) an
election to defer the distribution of a Share Deferral Account must be made at
least 12 months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment under the prior
distribution election and (2) the election shall not take effect until at least
12 months after the date on which the election is made. 

(c)  A
Participant s Share Deferral Account shall be distributed to the Participant on
March 10 (or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable as determined by
AT T) of the calendar year elected by the Participant for that
Account.  In the event the distribution is to be made to a  Specified
Employee  as a result of the Participant s Termination of Employment (other than
as a result of a Change in Control), the distribution shall not occur until the
later of such March 10 or six (6) months after the Termination of Employment,
except it shall be distributed upon the Participant s earlier death in
accordance with this Plan. 

6.2           Death
of the Participant.  

      In the
event of the death of a Participant, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this Plan, all undistributed Share Deferral Accounts shall
be  distributed to the Participant's beneficiary in accordance with
the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, as the same may be
amended from time to time within the later of 90 days following such
determination or the end of the calendar year in which determination was
made. 

6.3             Unforeseeable Emergency
Distribution . 

      If a
Participant experiences an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  the Participant may submit
a written petition to AT T (the Committee in the case of Officer Level
Employees), to receive a partial or full distribution of his Share Deferral
Account(s).  In the event that AT T (the Committee in the case of
Officer Level Employees), upon review of the written petition of the
Participant, determines in its sole discretion that the Participant has suffered
an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  AT T shall make a distribution to the
Participant from the Participant s Share Deferral Accounts (other than Matching
Share Units), on a pro-rata basis, within the later of 90 days following such
determination or the end of the calendar year in which determination was made,
subject to the following: 

Page
10 

(a)            Unforeseeable
Emergency  shall mean a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting
from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s legal spouse,
the Participant s beneficiary, or the Participant s dependent (as defined in
Code Section 152, without regard to Code Section 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and
(d)(1)(B)); loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or other similar
extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events
beyond the control of the Participant, all as determined in the sole discretion
of the Committee.  Whether a Participant is faced with an
Unforeseeable Emergency permitting a distribution is to be determined based on
the relevant facts and circumstances of each case, but, in any case, a
distribution on account of Unforeseeable Emergency shall not be made to the
extent that such emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or
compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s
assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe
financial hardship, or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan. 

      (b)           The
amount of a distribution to be made because of an Unforeseeable Emergency shall
not exceed the lesser of (i) the FMV of the Participant's vested Share Deferral
Account, calculated as the date on which the amount becomes payable, as
determined by AT T (the Committee in the case of Officer Level Employees) in
its sole discretion, and (ii) the amount reasonably necessary, as determined by
the AT T (the Committee in the case of Officer Level Employees) in its sole
discretion, to satisfy the emergency need (which may include amounts necessary
to pay any Federal, state, local, or foreign income taxes or penalties
reasonably anticipated to result from the
distribution).  Determinations of the amount reasonably necessary to
satisfy the emergency need shall take into account any additional compensation
that is available if the plan provides for cancellation of a deferral election
upon a payment due to an Unforeseeable Emergency.  The determination
of amounts reasonably necessary to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency need is
not required to, but may, take into account any additional compensation that,
due to the Unforeseeable Emergency, is available under another nonqualified
deferred compensation plan but has not actually been paid, or that is available
due to the Unforeseeable Emergency under another plan that would provide for
deferred compensation except due to the application of the effective date
provisions under Treasury Regulation   1.409A-6. 

      (c)           Upon
such distribution on account of an Unforeseeable Emergency under this Plan, any
election to make Employee Contributions by such Participant shall be immediately
cancelled, and the Participant shall not be permitted to make a new election
with respect to Employee Contributions that would be contributed during the then
current and immediately following calendar year. 

6.4           Ineligible
Participant.  

      Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if AT T receives an
opinion from counsel selected by AT T, or a final determination is made by a
Federal, state or local government or agency, acting within its scope of
authority, to the effect that an individual s continued participation in the
Plan would violate applicable law, then such person shall not make further
contributions to the Plan to the extent permitted by Section 409A. 

6.5  

Distribution
      Process.  

A Share
Deferral Account shall be distributed under this Plan by taking the number of
Share Units comprising the Account to be distributed and converting them into an
equal number of shares of Stock.  (Once distributed, a Share Unit
shall be canceled.) 

Page
11 

Article 7 - Transition
Provisions  

7.1  

Stockholder Approval

The Plan
was approved by Stockholders at the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. 

7.2             2005 Share Deferral
Accounts.  

      Notwithstanding
Article 4 to the contrary, if an Employee is an Eligible Employee on September
30, 2004, the Employee may make an election under Article 4 on or prior to
December 15, 2004, with respect to the establishment of a Stock Deferral Account
for the (i) contribution of Base Compensation and/or Short Term Incentive Awards
paid during the period from January 1, 2005, through January 15, 2006, which
shall be the Plan Year for such Stock Deferral Account; and/or (ii) the
conversion of a distribution of Stock that would be made during the same Plan
Year pursuant to the 2001 Incentive Plan into an equal number of Share Units, so
long as such conversion would not cause the recognition of income for Federal
income tax purposes in respect of such distribution of Stock prior to
distribution of Share Units under this Plan. 

7.3           2007
Amendments.  

      (a)
Amendments made to the Plan on November 15, 2007, shall be effective January 1,
2008. except for amendments to this Article 7, which shall be effective upon
adoption.  Any Participants electing prior to November 15, 2007, to
make Employee Contributions in 2008 shall have their elections canceled if they
do not consent by December 14, 2007, to all prior amendments to this Plan and to
the Cash Deferral Plan.  Subject to the foregoing consent
requirements, all Employee Contribution elections made prior to 2008, including
but not limited to elections to contribute Stock that would be distributed under
the 2001 Incentive Plan or a successor plan, shall remain in force, subject to
all other terms of the amended Plan. In addition, all unvested but not forfeited
Matching Share Units shall vest on November 15, 2007. 

(b)  Notwithstanding
Article 4 to the contrary, an Employee who is an Eligible Employee as of April
30, 2008, may thereafter make an election on or prior to the last Business Day
of the immediately following June with respect to the contribution of Team Award
or Short Term Incentive Award for the following Plan Year. 

(c)  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this Plan, a Participant who as of December 29,
2006, was eligible for an additional payment pursuant to Section 4A of the
BellSouth Corporation Executive Incentive Award Deferral Plan shall not, with
respect to the 2008 Plan Year, receive Matching Share Units on Base Compensation
that exceeds $230,000. 

Article 8 -
Options  

8.1             Grants.  

      Options
may be issued in definitive form or recorded on the books and records of
AT T for the account of the Participant, at the discretion of
AT T.  If AT T elects not to issue the Options in definitive
form, they shall be deemed issued, and the Participants shall have all rights
incident thereto as if they were issued on the dates provided herein, without
further action on the part of AT T or the Participant.  In
addition to the terms herein, all Options shall be subject to such additional
provisions and limitations as provided in any Administrative Procedures adopted
by the Committee prior to the issuance of such Options.  The number of
Options issued to a Participant shall be reflected on the Participant's annual
statement of account. 

Page
12 

8.2             Term of Options.  

      The
Options may only be exercised:  (a) after the earlier of (i) the
expiration of one (1) year from date of issue or (ii) the Participant's
Termination of Employment, and (b) no later than the tenth (10  th  ) anniversary of
their issue; and Options shall be subject to earlier termination as provided
herein. 

8.3             Exercise Price.  

      The
Exercise Price of an Option shall be the FMV of the Stock on the date of
issuance of the Options and Options may not be repriced. 

8.4             Issuance of
Options . 

(a)  For
each Share Deferral Account established by a Participant: 

(1)  on
June 15 of the Plan Year for the Share Deferral Account, the Participant shall
receive two (2) Options for each Share Unit acquired by the Participant as part
of such Share Deferral Account during the immediately preceding January through
May period with Employee Contributions of Base Compensation and/or Short Term
Incentive Award.  A fractional number of Options shall be rounded up
to the next whole number. 

(2)  on
the February 15 immediately following the Plan Year for the Share Deferral
Account, a Participant shall receive: 

(i)      two (2)
Options for each Share Unit acquired by the Participant as part of such Share
Deferral Account during the immediately preceding June through the remainder of
the relevant Plan Year with Employee Contributions of Base Compensation and/or
Short Term Incentive Award; and 

(ii)      two
(2) Options for each Share Unit acquired prior to such date by the Participant
with dividend equivalents that were derived, directly or indirectly (such as
dividend equivalents paid on Share Units acquired with dividend equivalents),
from Share Units acquired with Employee Contributions as part of such Share
Deferral Account. 

(b) A
fractional number of Options shall be rounded up to the next whole
number. 

(c) If
Stock is not traded on the NYSE on any of the foregoing Option issuance dates,
then the Options shall not be issued until the next such day on which Stock is
so traded. 

(d) If a
Participant Terminates Employment other than (i) while Retirement eligible or
(ii) because of death or Disability, no further Options shall be issued to or
with respect to such Participant.  In the event of re-Employment
following a Termination of Employment, the preceding sentence shall not apply to
those Options resulting from participation in the Plan after such re-Employment
until a subsequent Termination of Employment. 

(e) No
more than 400,000 Options shall be issued to any individual under this Plan
during a calendar year.  No Share Unit may be counted more than once
for the issuance of Options. 

(f) The
Committee may, in its sole discretion, at any time, increase or lower the number
of Options that are to be issued for each Share Unit acquired, not to exceed two
(2) Options per Share Unit purchased.  However, if the Committee
lowers the number of Options, then such change shall only be effective with
respect to the next Share Deferral Account a Participant may elect to
establish. 

Page
13 

(g) The
Committee may also, at any time and in any manner, limit the number of Options
which may be acquired as a result of the Short Term Incentive Award being
contributed to the Plan.  Further, except as otherwise provided by the
Committee, in determining the number of Options to be issued to a Participant
with respect to a Participant's contribution of a Short Term Incentive Award to
the Plan and subsequent crediting of Share Units, Options may be issued only
with respect to an amount which does not exceed the target amount of such award
(or such other portion of the award as may be determined by the
Committee). 

(h) No
options shall be issued to or in respect of a Participant for a particular
issuance, unless at least ten (10) Options will be issued to that
Participant. 

8.5             Exercise and Payment of
Options . 

      Options
shall be exercised by providing notice to the designated agent selected by
AT T (if no such agent has been designated, then to AT T), in the manner
and form determined by AT T, which notice shall be irrevocable, setting
forth the exact number of shares of Stock with respect to which the Option is
being exercised and including with such notice payment of the Exercise
Price.  When Options have been transferred, AT T or its designated
agent may require appropriate documentation that the person or persons
exercising the Option, if other than the Participant, has the right to exercise
the Option.  No Option may be exercised with respect to a fraction of
a share of Stock. 

Exercises
of Options may be effected only on days and during the hours that the New York
Stock Exchange is open for regular trading or as otherwise provided or limited
by AT T.  If an Option expires on a day or at a time when
exercises are not permitted, then the Options may be exercised no later than the
immediately preceding date and time that the Options were
exercisable. 

The
Exercise Price shall be paid in full at the time of exercise.  No
Stock shall be issued or transferred until full payment has been received
therefore. 

Payment
may be made: 

(a) in
cash, or 

(b)
unless otherwise provided by the Committee at any time, and subject to such
additional terms and conditions and/or modifications as AT T may impose from
time to time, and further subject to suspension or termination of this provision
by AT T at any time, by: 

(i) delivery
of Stock owned by the Participant in partial (if in partial payment, then
together with cash) or full payment; provided, however, as a condition to paying
any part of the Exercise Price in Stock, at the time of exercise of the Option,
the Participant must establish to the satisfaction of AT T that the Stock
tendered to AT T must have been held by the Participant for a minimum of six
(6) months preceding the tender; or 

(ii) if
AT T has designated a stockbroker to act as AT T's agent to process
Option exercises, issuance of an exercise notice to such stockbroker together
with instructions irrevocably instructing the stockbroker:  (A) to
immediately sell (which shall include an exercise notice that becomes effective
upon execution of a sell order) a sufficient portion of the Stock to pay the
Exercise Price of the Options being exercised and the required tax withholding,
and (B) to deliver on the settlement date the portion of the proceeds of the
sale equal to the Exercise Price and tax withholding to AT T.  In
the event the stockbroker sells any Stock on behalf of a Participant, the
stockbroker shall be acting solely as the agent of the Participant, and AT T
disclaims any responsibility for the actions of the stockbroker in making any
such sales.  No Stock shall be issued until the settlement date and
until the proceeds (equal to the Exercise Price and tax withholding) are paid to
AT T. 

Page
14 

If
payment is made by the delivery of Stock, the value of the Stock delivered shall
be equal to the FMV of the Stock on the day preceding the date of exercise of
the Option. 

Restricted
Stock may not be used to pay the Option exercise price. 

8.6             Restrictions on Exercise and
Transfer.  

      No Option
shall be transferable except: (a) upon the death of a Participant in accordance
with AT T's Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and (b) in the case of any holder after the
Participant's death, only by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution.  During the Participant's lifetime, the Participant's
Options shall be exercisable only by the Participant or by the Participant's
guardian or legal representative.  After the death of the Participant,
an Option shall only be exercised by the holder thereof (including but not
limited to an executor or administrator of a decedent's estate) or his or her
guardian or legal representative.  In each such case the Option holder
shall be considered a Participant for the limited purpose of exercising such
Options. 

8.7             Termination of
Employment . 

      (a)   Not Retirement
Eligible.   Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, if a
Participant Terminates Employment while not Retirement eligible, a Participant's
Options may be exercised, to the extent then exercisable: 

(i) if
such Termination of Employment is by reason of death or Disability, then for a
period of three (3) years from the date of such Termination of Employment or
until the expiration of the stated term of such Option, whichever period is
shorter; or 

(ii) if
such Termination of Employment is for any other reason, then for a period of one
(1) year from the date of such Termination of Employment or until the expiration
of the stated term of such Option, whichever period is shorter. 

(b)   Retirement
Eligible.   Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, if a
Participant Terminates Employment while Retirement eligible, a Participant's
Option may be exercised, to the extent then exercisable:  (i) for a
period of five (5) years from the date of Retirement or (ii) until the
expiration of the stated term of such Option, whichever period is
shorter. 

(c) Re-Employment of a Participant
after a Termination of Employment shall have no effect on the periods during
which Options resulting from the prior Employment may be
exercised.  For example, if the Option exercise period has been
shortened because of the prior Termination of Employment, it shall not be
extended because of the re-Employment. 

Page
15 

(d)  Notwithstanding any
other definition of Termination of Employment under this Plan, for purposes of
this Article 8   Options only, a Termination of Employment shall mean the
cessation of the Employee being employed by any corporation, partnership,
venture or other entity in which AT T holds, directly or indirectly, a 50%
or greater ownership interest, including but not limited to where AT T
ceases to hold such interest in the employing company.  In addition,
the definition of Retirement for purposes of this Article 8 shall use the
immediately foregoing definition of Termination of Employment in  lieu
of any other definition. 

Article 9 - Discontinuation,
Termination, Amendment . 

9.1             AT T's Right to Discontinue
Offering Share Units.  

      The
Committee may at any time discontinue offerings of Share Units under the
Plan.  Any such discontinuance shall have no effect upon existing
Share Units or the terms or provisions of this Plan as applicable to such Share
Units. 

9.2             AT T's Right to Terminate
Plan.  

      The
Committee may terminate the Plan at any time.  Upon termination of the
Plan, contributions shall no longer be made under the Plan. 

After
termination of the Plan, Participants shall continue to earn dividend
equivalents in the form of Share Units on undistributed Share Units and shall
continue to receive all distributions under this Plan at such time as provided
in and pursuant to the terms and conditions of Participant's elections and this
Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the termination of the Plan
shall not cause the accelerated distribution of any Account unless such
termination is effected in accordance with Section 409A. 

The
Committee may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part including but not
limited to changing the formulas for determining the amount of AT T Matching
Contributions under Article 5 or decreasing the number of Options to be issued
under Article 8; provided, however, that no amendment, including but not limited
to an amendment to this section, shall be effective, without the consent of a
Participant, to alter, to the material detriment of such Participant, a Share
Deferral Account of the Participant, other than as provided elsewhere in this
section.   For purposes of this section, an alteration to the
material detriment of a Participant shall include, but not be limited to, a
material reduction in the period of time over which Stock may be distributed to
a Participant, any reduction in the Participant's number of vested Share Units
or Options, or an increase in the Exercise Price or decrease in the term of an
Option.   Any such consent may be in a writing, telecopy, or
e-mail or in another electronic format. An election to acquire Share Units with
Employee Contributions shall be conclusively deemed to be the consent of the
Participant to any and all amendments to the Plan prior to such election, and
such consent shall be a condition to making any election with respect to
Employee Contributions. 

Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this section of the Plan, the Committee
may modify this Plan with respect to any person subject to the provisions of
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ( Exchange Act )
to place additional restrictions on the exercise of any Option or the transfer
of any Stock not yet issued under the Plan. 

Page
16 

The Plan
is established in order to provide deferred compensation to a select group of
management and highly compensated employees with in the meaning of Sections
201(2) and 301(a)(3) of ERISA. To the extent legally required, the Code and
ERISA shall govern the Plan, and if any provision hereof is in violation of an
applicable requirement thereof, the Company reserves the right to retroactively
amend the Plan to comply therewith to the extent permitted under the Code and
ERISA.  The Company also reserves the right to make such other changes
as may facilitate implementation of Section 409A.  Provided, however,
that in no event shall any such amendments be made in violation of the
requirements of Section 409 of the Code. 

Article 10  
Miscellaneous.  

10.1          Tax Withholding . 

      Upon
distribution of Stock, including but not limited to, shares of Stock issued upon
the exercise of an Option, AT T shall withhold shares of Stock sufficient in
value, using the FMV on the date determined by AT T to be used to value the
Stock for tax purposes, to satisfy the minimum amount of Federal, state, and
local taxes required by law to be withheld as a result of such
distribution. 

Any
fractional share of Stock payable to a Participant shall be withheld as
additional Federal withholding, or, at the option of AT T, paid in cash to
the Participant. 

Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method of payment for the
Exercise Price is from the sale by a stockbroker pursuant to Section 8.5,
hereof, of the Stock acquired through the Option exercise, then the tax
withholding shall be satisfied out of the proceeds.  For
administrative purposes in determining the amount of taxes due, the sale price
of such Stock shall be deemed to be the FMV of the Stock. 

10.2          Elections and
Notices.  

      Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of
every kind under this Plan shall be made on forms prepared by AT T or the
General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates
or shall be made in such other manner as permitted or required by AT T or
the General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective
delegates, including through electronic means, over the Internet or
otherwise.  An election shall be deemed made when received by AT T
(or its designated agent, but only in cases where the designated agent has been
appointed for the purpose of receiving such election), which may waive any
defects in form.  Unless made irrevocable by the electing person, each
election with regard to making Employee Contributions or distributions of Share
Deferral Accounts shall become irrevocable at the close of business on the last
day to make such election. AT T may limit the time an election may be made
in advance of any deadline. 

If not otherwise specified by this Plan
or AT T, any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to AT T
under the Plan shall be delivered to the principal office of AT T, directed
to the attention of the Senior Executive Vice President in charge of Human
Resources for AT T or his or her successor.  Such notice shall be
deemed given on the date of delivery. 

Notice to
the Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the
Participant's work or home address as shown on the records of AT T or, at
the option of AT T, to the Participant's e-mail address as shown on the
records of AT T.  It is the Participant's responsibility to ensure
that the Participant's addresses are kept up to date on the records of
AT T.  In the case of notices affecting multiple Participants, the
notices may be given by general distribution at the Participants' work
locations. 

Page
17 

By
participating in the Plan, each Participant agrees that AT T may provide any
documents required or permitted under the Federal or state securities laws,
including but not limited to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by e-mail, by e-mail attachment, or
by notice by e-mail of electronic delivery through AT T's Internet Web site
or by other electronic means. 

10.3          Unsecured General
Creditor . 

      Participants
and their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, and assigns shall have no legal or
equitable rights, interest, or claims in any property or assets of any
Employer.  No assets of any Employer shall be held under any trust for
the benefit of Participants, their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or assigns,
or held in any way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations
of any Employer under this Plan.  Any and all of each Employer's
assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of such
Employer.  The only obligation of an Employer under the Plan shall be
merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of AT T to distribute
shares of Stock corresponding to Share Units and Options, under the
Plan. 

10.4          Non-Assignability . 

      Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign,
transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt, shares of Stock
corresponding to Share Units under the Plan, if any, or any part thereof, which
are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and
non-transferable.  No part of the Stock distributable shall, prior to
actual distribution, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of
any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or
any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a
Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency. 

10.5          Employment Not
Guaranteed . 

      Nothing
contained in this Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a
contract of employment or as giving any employee any right to be retained in the
employ of an Employer or to serve as a director. 

10.6         Errors.  

      At any
time AT T or an Employer may correct any error made under the Plan without
prejudice to AT T or any Employer.  Neither AT T nor any
Employer shall be liable for any damages resulting from failure to timely allow
any contribution to be made to the Plan or for any damages resulting from the
correction of, or a delay in correcting, any error made under the
Plan.  In no event shall AT T or any Employer be liable for
consequential or incidental damages arising out of a failure to comply with the
terms of the Plan. 

The
captions of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of this Plan are for
convenience only and shall not control nor affect the meaning or construction of
any of its provisions. 

Page
18 

10.8          Governing Law . 

      To the
extent not preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all benefits and agreements
hereunder, and any and all disputes in connection therewith, shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Texas,
without regard to conflict or choice of law principles which might otherwise
refer the construction, interpretation or enforceability of this Plan to the
substantive law of another jurisdiction. 

Because
benefits under the Plan are granted in Texas, records relating to the Plan and
benefits thereunder are located in Texas, and the Plan and benefits thereunder
are administered in Texas, AT T and the Participant under this Plan, for
themselves and their successors and assigns, irrevocably submit to the exclusive
and sole jurisdiction and venue of the state or Federal courts of Texas with
respect to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this Plan, the
subject matter of this Plan or any benefits under this Plan, including but not
limited to any disputes arising out of or relating to the interpretation and
enforceability of any benefits or the terms and conditions of this
Plan.  To achieve certainty regarding the appropriate forum in which
to prosecute and defend actions arising out of or relating to this Plan, and to
ensure consistency in application and interpretation of the Governing Law to the
Plan, the parties agree that (a) sole and exclusive appropriate venue for any
such action shall be an appropriate Federal or state court in Bexar County,
Texas, and no other, (b) all claims with respect to any such action shall be
heard and determined exclusively in such Texas court, and no other, (c) such
Texas court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over the person of such
parties and over the subject matter of any dispute relating hereto and (d) that
the parties waive any and all objections and defenses to bringing any such
action before such Texas court, including but not limited to those relating to
lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue or  forum non
conveniens . 

10.9           Plan to Comply with Section
409A.  

      In the
event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the
same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this Plan.  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
in this Plan, each provision in this Plan shall be interpreted to permit the
deferral of compensation in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and any
provision that would conflict with such requirements shall not be valid or
enforceable. 

10.10         Successors and
Assigns . 

      This Plan
shall be binding upon AT T and its successors and assigns. 

Page
19 

</EX-10.BB>

<EX-10.CC>
 18
 ex10cc.htm
 CASH DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10cc.htm 

Exhibit
10-cc  

       AT T INC.  

CASH DEFERRAL
PLAN  

Adopted
November 19, 2004 

      As
amended through November 15, 2007 

Article 1 - Statement of
Purpose  

The
purpose of the Cash Deferral Plan ( Plan ) is to provide savings opportunities
to a select group of management employees of AT T  Inc.
( AT T ) and its Subsidiaries. 

Article 2 -
Definitions  

For the
purpose of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context indicates otherwise: 

Base
Compensation.   The following types of cash-based compensation
paid by an Employer (but not including payments made by a non-Employer, such as
state disability payments), before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to
this Plan or reduction pursuant to any deferral plan of an Employer, including
but not limited to a plan that includes a qualified cash or deferral arrangement
under Section 401(k) of the Code: 

(a)   

base
      salary; 

(b)  
               lump sum
      payments in lieu of a base salary
  increase;  and  

(c)  
                 Team
      Award.  

Payments by
an Employer under a disability plan made in lieu of any compensation
described  above, shall be deemed to be a part of the respective form
of compensation it replaces for purposes of this definition.  Base
Compensation does not include zone allowances or any other geographical
differential and shall not include payments made in lieu of unused vacation or
other paid days off, and such payments shall not be contributed to this
Plan. 

Determinations by
AT T (the Committee with respect to Officer Level Employees) of the items
that make up Base Compensation shall be final.  The Committee may,
from time to time, add or subtract types of compensation to or from the
definition of   Base Compensation  provided, however, any such
addition or subtraction shall  be effective only with respect to the
next period in which a Participant may make an election to establish a Cash
Deferral Account. 

Business
Day.   Any day during regular business hours that AT T is
open for business. 

Cash Deferral Account
 or  Account  The
Account or Accounts established annually by an election by a Participant to make
Employee Contributions to the Plan with each account relating to a Plan
Year.  For each Plan Year after 2008, there shall be a separate Cash
Deferral Account for Base Compensation (excluding Team Award) and a separate
Cash Deferral Account for the Short Term Incentive Award and/or Team
Award.  Earnings on each of Employee Contributions shall accrue to the
respective Cash Deferral Accounts where they are earned 

Page
1 

Change in
Control.   With respect to AT T s direct and indirect
ownership of an Employer, a  Change in the effective control of a Corporation, 
as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)(A)(1), regardless
of whether the Employer is a corporation or non corporate entity as permitted by
the regulation, and using  50 percent  in lieu of  30 percent  in such
regulation.  A Change in Control will not apply to AT T
itself. 

Chief Executive
Officer.   The Chief Executive Officer of AT T
Inc. 

Code.   References
to the Code shall be to provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended,
including regulations promulgated thereunder and successor
provisions.  Similarly, references to regulations shall include
amendments and successor provisions. 

Committee.   The
Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of AT T
Inc. 

Disability.
 Absence of an Employee from work with an Employer under the relevant
Employer's disability plan. 

Eligible
Employee.   An Employee who: 

            (a) is a full
or part time, salaried Employee of AT T or an Employer in which AT T has
a direct or indirect 100% ownership interest and who is on active duty,
Disability (but only while such Employee is deemed by the Employer to be an
Employee of such Employer) or Leave of Absence; 

(b) is, as
determined by AT T, a member of Employer's  select group of management or
highly compensated employees  within the meaning of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder ( ERISA ),
which is deemed to include each Officer Level Employee; and 

(c) has an
employment status which has been approved by AT T to be eligible to
participate in this Plan or is an Officer Level Employee. 

Notwithstanding the
foregoing, AT T (the Committee with respect to Officer Level Employees) may,
from time to time, exclude any Employee or group of Employees from being deemed
an  Eligible Employee  under this Plan. 

In the event
a court or other governmental authority determines that an individual was
improperly excluded from the class of persons who would be permitted to make
Employee Contributions during a particular time for any reason, that individual
shall not be permitted to make such contributions for purposes of the Plan for
the period of time prior to such determination. 

Employee.   Any
person employed by an Employer and paid on an Employer s payroll system,
excluding persons hired for a fixed maximum term and excluding persons who are
neither citizens nor permanent residents of the United States, all as determined
by AT T.   For
purposes of this Plan, a person on Leave of Absence who otherwise would be an
Employee shall be deemed to be an Employee. 

Page
2 

Employee
Contributions.   Amounts credited to a Cash Deferral Account
pursuant to Section 4.1 (Election to Make Contributions) of the
Plan 

Employer.   AT T
Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries. 

Incentive
Award.   A cash award paid by an Employer (and not by a
non-Employer, such as state disability payments) under the Short Term Incentive
Plan or any successor plan, the 2001 Incentive Plan or any successor plan, or
any other award that the Committee specifically permits to be contributed to a
Cash Deferral Account under this Plan (regardless of the purpose of the
award). 

Leave of
Absence.   Where a person is absent from employment with an
Employer on a leave of absence, military leave, or sick leave, where the leave
is given in order to prevent a break in the continuity of term of employment,
and permission for such leave is granted (and not revoked) in conformity with
the rules of the Employer that employs the individual, as adopted from time to
time  and the Employee is reasonably expected to return to
service.  Except as set forth below, the leave shall not exceed six
(6) months for purposes of this Plan, and the Employee shall Terminate
Employment upon termination of such leave if the Employee does not return to
work prior to or upon expiration  of such six (6) month period, unless
the individual retains a right to reemployment under law or by
contract.  A twenty-nine (29) month limitation shall apply in lieu of
such six (6) month limitation if the leave is due to the Employee being
"disabled" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation
 1.409A-3(i)(4).  A Leave of Absence shall not commence or shall be
deemed to cease under the Plan where the Employee has incurred a Termination of
Employment. 

Officer Level
Employee.   Any executive officer of AT T, as that term is
used under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any Employee
that is an  officer level  Employee for compensation purposes as shown on the
records of AT T. 

Participant.   An
Employee or former Employee who participates in this Plan. 

Plan Interest
Rate.   An annual rate of interest equal to Moody s Long-Term
  Corporate
Bond Yield Average for the September preceding the calendar year during which
the interest rate will apply.   The Committee may choose another
method of calculating the Plan Interest Rate, but such other method may only
apply to Cash Deferral Units that Participants have not yet elected to
establish. 

Plan
Year.   Each of the following shall be a Plan
year:  the period from January 1, 2005 through January 15, 2006; the
period January 16, 2006 through December 31, 2006; and, for all later Plan
Years, it is defined as the period from January 1 through December
31. 

Retirement or
Retire.   Termination of Employment on or after the date the
Participant has attained one of the following combinations of age and Net
Credited Service: 

                  Net Credited
Service                                              Age 

                            10
years or
more                                                      65
or older 

                            20
years or
more                                                      55
or older 

                            25
years or
more                                                      50
or older 

                            30
years or
more                                                      Any
age 

Page
3 

For
purposes of this Plan only, Net Credited Service shall be calculated in the same
manner as  Pension Eligibility Service  under the AT T Pension Benefit Plan
  Nonbargained Program ( Pension Plan ), as amended from time to time, except
that service with an Employer shall be counted as though the Employer were a
 Participating Company  under the Pension Plan and the Employee was a
participant in the Pension Plan. 

Short Term Incentive
Award.   A cash award paid by an Employer (and not by a
non-Employer, such as state disability payments) under the Short Term Incentive
Plan or any successor plan; an award under a similar  plan intended by
the Committee to be in lieu of an award under such Short Term Incentive Plan,
including, but not limited to, Performance Units granted under the 2001
Incentive Plan or any successor plan   It shall also include any
other award that the Committee designates as a Short Term Incentive Award
specifically for purposes of this Plan (regardless of the purpose of the award)
provided the deferral election is made in accordance with Section
409A. 

Specified
Employee.   Any Participant who is a  Key Employee  (as defined
in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), as determined
by AT T in accordance with its uniform policy with respect to all
arrangements subject to Code Section 409A, based upon the 12-month period ending
on each December 31st (such 12-month period is referred to below as the
 identification period ).  All Participants who are determined to be
Key Employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5)
thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Key Employees for
purposes of the Plan during the 12-month period that begins on the first day of
the 4th month following the close of such identification period. 

Subsidiary.   Any
corporation, partnership, venture or other entity or business with which
AT T would be considered a single employer under Sections 414(a) and (c) of
the Code, using 50% as the ownership threshold as provided under Section 409A of
the Code. 

Team
Award.   The annual award determined to be the  Team Award  by
AT T, together with any individual award determined by AT T to be the
Individual Discretionary Award made in connection therewith or comparable
awards, if any, determined by AT T to be used in lieu of these
awards. 

Termination of Employment. 
References herein to  Termination of Employment,"  Terminate Employment  or a
similar reference, shall mean the event where the Employee has a  separation
from service,  as defined under Section 409A, with all Employers. For purposes
of this Plan, a Termination of Employment with respect to an
Employer  shall be deemed to occur when such Employer incurs a Change
in Control. 

Article 3 - Administration of the
Plan  

3.1        The Committee . 

            Except as
delegated by this Plan or by the Committee, the Committee shall be the
administrator of the Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and
apply its provisions and all questions of administration, interpretation and
application of the Plan, including, without limitation, questions and
determinations of eligibility  entitlement to benefits and payment of
benefits, all in its sole and absolute discretion.  The Committee may
further establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations and such
additional terms and conditions regarding participation in the Plan as it may
deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the
Plan.  References in this Plan to determinations or other actions by
AT T, herein, shall mean actions authorized by the Committee, the Chief
Executive Officer, the Senior Executive Vice President of AT T in charge of
Human Resources, or their respective successors or duly authorized delegates, in
each case in the discretion of such person.  All decisions by the
Committee, its delegate or AT T, as applicable, shall be final and
binding. 

Page
4 

3.2      Claims
Procedure.  

            Subject to
the authority of the Committee over the Plan, AT T shall appoint a Claims
Board to adjudicate claims brought by or in respect to Participants and their
beneficiaries relating to benefits under the Plan.  A Participant may
apply in writing to the Claims Board to make a claim under this
Plan.  The Claims Board shall provide written notice within 90 days to
a Participant whose claim hereunder has been denied, setting forth reasons for
such denial or explaining that an extension of the time for processing the claim
is necessary, written in a manner calculated to be understood by such
person.  After receipt of such notice, or expiration of 90 days
without any response from the Claims Board, the Participant may appeal the
decision in writing to the Senior Executive Vice President of AT T in charge
of Human Resources, or to the person s successor, within 90 days, except that if
the Participant is an Insider, as that term is used in the 2001 Incentive Plan,
then the Participant's appeal shall be to the Committee.  The
Participant shall receive written notice within 60 days of the resolution of the
appeal, and if denied, setting forth reasons for the denial or explaining that
an extension of time for processing the appeal is necessary, written in a manner
calculated to be understood by such person.  If no notice of the
decision on the Participant s appeal is furnished within the required time
frame, the appeal will be deemed denied.  The Participant shall
receive a full and fair review of the decision denying the claim in accordance
with the requirements of ERISA. 

All
interpretations, determinations and decisions of the Claims Board with respect
to any claim, including without limitation the appeal of any claim, shall be
made by the Claims Board, in its sole discretion, based on the Plan and
comments, documents, records, and other information presented to it, and shall
be final, conclusive and binding. 

The claims
procedures set forth in this section are intended to comply with United States
Department of Labor Regulation   2560.503-1 and should be construed in
accordance with such regulation.  In no event shall it be interpreted
as expanding the rights of claimants beyond what is required by United States
Department of Labor Regulation   2560.503-1. 

Article 4 -
Contributions  

4.1        Election to Make
Contributions.  

            (a)      The
Committee shall establish dates and other conditions for participation in the
Plan and making contributions as it deems appropriate.  Except as
otherwise provided by the Committee, each year an Employee who is an Eligible
Employee as of September 30 may thereafter make an election on or prior to the
last Business Day of the immediately following November to contribute on a
pre-tax basis, through payroll deductions, any combination of the
following: 

(1)  From 1% to 50%
(in whole percentage increments) of the Participant s monthly Base Compensation,
other than Team Award, during the calendar year (the Plan Year for such
contributions) following the calendar year of such
election.  Employees who are below the level of Senior Manager, as
shown on the records of AT T at the time of the election, may contribute no
more than 25% or such other amount as determined by AT T. 

Page
5 

(2)  Up
to 100% (in whole percentage increments or in dollars) of a Short Term Incentive
Award (with any contribution of the discretionary award related thereto
determined separately by the Employee), or up to 50% (in whole percentage
increments) of a Team Award (25% for Employees who are below the level of Senior
Manager), in each case such contributions shall be made during the second
calendar year (which is the Plan Year for such contributions) following the year
of such election.  An Employee may make such an election with respect
to the type of Award (Short Term Incentive Award or Team Award) that the
Employee is under as of the time the Employee s eligibility to make such
election is determined.  If because of a promotion or otherwise, the
Employee receives a different type of Award instead of or in partial or full
replacement for the type of Award subject to the Employee s election for the
relevant Plan Year, the election will apply to the other Award as well, except
that the discretionary award related to the Short Term Incentive Award will not
be affected by or affect a Team Award election. 

(b)  The
Committee may permit an Eligible Employee to make an election to make other
contributions under this Plan with compensation other than Base Compensation or
Short Term Incentive Awards on such terms and conditions as such Committee may
permit from time to time provided that any such election is made in accordance
with Section 409A.) 

(c)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, no election shall be
effective to the extent it would permit an Employee Contribution or distribution
to be made that is not in compliance with Section 409A of the
Code.  To the extent such election related to Employee Contributions
that complied with such statute and regulations, thereunder, that portion of the
election shall remain valid, except as otherwise provided under this
Plan. 

(d)  To the
extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code,  AT T may refuse or
terminate, in whole or in part, any election to make contributions to the Plan
at any time; provided, however, only the Committee may take such action with
respect to persons who are Officer Level Employees. 

(e)  In the
event the Participant takes a hardship withdrawal from a benefit plan qualified
under the Code and sponsored by an Employer, any election to make Employee
Contributions by such Participant shall be cancelled on a prospective basis, and
the Participant shall not be permitted to make a new election with respect to
Employee Contributions that would be contributed during the then current and
immediately following calendar year. 

(f)  To the
extent a Participant makes contributions to the Plan where the payment of which
would be deductible by AT T under Section 162(m) of the Code without regard
to the size of the distribution, such contributions and earnings thereon shall
be distributed first. 

(g) With
respect to a Plan Year, an Employee may elect to (1) make Employee Contributions
of Base Compensation other than Team Awards to this Plan but only if the
Employee elects to contribute at least 15% of Base Compensation other than Team
Awards for the same Plan Year to the Stock Purchase and Deferral Plan and/or (2)
make Employee Contributions of Team Award to this Plan but only if the Employee
elects to contribute at least 15% of Team Award for the same Plan Year to the
Stock Purchase and Deferral Plan. 

Page
6 

4.2      Contributions
to a Cash Deferral Account.  

            (a) Employee
Contributions shall be made solely pursuant to a proper election and only during
the Employee's lifetime and while the Participant remains an Employee and the
Participant s Employer has not incurred a Change in Control; provided, however,
with respect to Employee Contribution elections made prior to 2007, the Employee
must remain an Eligible Employee while making any such
contributions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Termination of
Employment of an Employee shall not result in the cancellation of an election to
make Employee Contributions solely with respect to contribution of annual base
salary earned prior to Termination but paid within 60 days thereafter or with
respect to Incentive Awards paid after Retirement (and such person shall be
deemed an Employee for such contributions). 

(b)  A
Participant s contributions shall be credited to the Participant s Cash Deferral
Account on the day the compensation   from which the contribution is to be
deducted   is paid ( paid,  as used in this Plan, includes amounts contributed
to the Plan that would have been paid were it not for an election under this
Plan) using the "check date" shown on the related pay record (sometimes referred
to as the "paycheck stub") as the contribution date (if no "check date" is
shown, then the date of the pay record).  Earnings on each Cash
Deferral Account shall be recorded on Participant s statements
quarterly.  Where there has been an overpayment of gross compensation,
the amount of the overpayment will not be considered in determining the
contribution amount.  In no event shall the Participant have any
recourse against an Employer under this Plan for any underpayment, overpayment
or delayed or correcting payment of compensation.  In the event a pay
period (the period over which services are rendered for the relevant
compensation) relates to services rendered during or before the taxable year of
the relevant election, then only the compensation relating to services performed
in the calendar year following the calendar year of the election may be
contributed to this Plan.  The Committee may modify or change this
paragraph (b) from time to time. 

4.3      Earnings
on Cash Deferral Accounts.  

              During a
calendar year, the Participant s Cash Deferral Account shall accrue interest on
amounts held by such Account at the Plan Interest Rate for such year, compounded
quarterly on the last day of each quarter.  Interest will accrue on
unpaid amounts in the Cash Deferral Account from the date credited to such
Account. 

Article 5 -
Distributions  

5.1      Distributions
of Cash Deferral Accounts.  

              (a)  Initial
Election with Respect to a Cash Deferred Account.  At the time the
Participant makes an election to make Employee Contributions with respect to a
Cash Deferral Account, the Participant shall also elect the calendar year of the
distribution of the Cash Deferral Account and the number of
installments.   The Participant may elect either of the
following: 

(1)
Specified Date Distribution.  That the distribution of the Cash
Deferral Account commence in the calendar year specified by the Participant in
up to five (5) installments.  In the event the Participant Terminates
Employment prior to the calendar year of the distribution, the Cash Deferral
Account must commence distribution the calendar year following the calendar year
of the Termination of Employment, with the same number of installments, unless
the Employee has made an irrevocable election under (b), below.  For
example, if the Participant elected a 2010 distribution with five (5)
installments, but Terminated Employment in 2007, the Cash Deferral Account would
commence distribution in 2008. 

Page
7 

(2)  Retirement
Distribution.  That the distribution of the Cash Deferral Account
commence the calendar year following the calendar year of Retirement in up to
(10) installments.  If the Participant Terminates Employment while not
Retirement eligible, the distribution shall commence the calendar year following
the calendar year of Termination of Employment, but shall be limited to five (5)
installments. 

If no timely
distribution election is made by the Participant, then the Participant will be
deemed to have made an election to have the Cash Deferral Account distributed in
a single installment in the first calendar year after the calendar year Employee
Contributions were first made.    Regardless
of the distribution election made, if the Participant Terminates Employment but
has a Cash Deferral Account that commenced in the same year the Cash Deferral
Account would commence distribution, then that Account would instead commence
distribution in the calendar year following the year the Account
commenced.  For example, if a Retirement eligible Employee Terminated
Employment in 2005 after making an election with regard to an Incentive Award to
be paid in 2006, the Cash Deferral Account relating to that award would commence
distribution in 2007. 

(b)  If an
Employee elected a Specified Date Distribution for a Cash Deferral Account, the
Employee may elect a new Specified Date Distribution commencement date and a new
number of installments; provided, however, Termination of Employment will not
accelerate the distribution, unlike the initial deferral
election.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the Employee
must elect the new distribution and new number of installments, if any, on or
after the September 1, and on or before the last Business Day of the next
following December, of the calendar year that is the second calendar year
preceding the calendar year of the relevant scheduled
distribution.  For example, an election to defer a scheduled
distribution in 2010 must be made from September 1, 2008 through the last
business day of December 2008.  The new distribution election must
delay commencement of the distribution by five (5) years.  An election
to create a new Specified Date Distribution and defer the commencement of the
distribution of a Cash Deferral Account may not be made in the same calendar
year the election to establish the Cash Deferral Account is
made.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, (1) such
election to create a new Specified Date Distribution must be made at least 12
months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment under the prior
distribution election and (2) the election shall not take effect until at least
12 months after the date on which the election is made. 

(c)  A
Participant s Cash Deferral Account shall be distributed to the Participant on
March 10 (or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable, as determined
by AT T) of the calendar year elected by the Participant for the
Account.  In the event the distribution is to be made to  Specified
Employee   as a result of the Participant s Termination of Employment
(other than as a result of a Change in Control), the distribution shall not
occur until the later of such March 10 or six (6) months after the Termination
of Employment, except it shall be distributed upon the Participant s earlier
death in accordance with this Plan.  The distributions shall continue
annually on each successive March 10 (or such other date as determined by
AT T) until the number of installments elected by the Participant is
reached.  In each installment, AT T shall distribute to the
Participant that portion of the Participant's Cash Deferral Account that is
equal to the total dollar amount of the Participant's Account divided by the
number of remaining installments. 

Page
8 

(d)  The
Committee may establish other distribution alternatives from time to time, but
such alternatives may be offered no earlier than the next period in which a
Participant may make an election to establish a Cash Deferral
Account. 

5.2      Death
of the Participant.  

            In the event
of the death of a Participant, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Plan,  all undistributed Cash Deferral Accounts shall be distributed
to the Participant's beneficiary in accordance with the AT T Rules for
Employee Beneficiary Designations, as the same may be amended from time to time
within the later of 90 days following such determination or the end of the
calendar year in which determination was made. 

5.3        Unforeseeable Emergency
Distribution . 

            If a
Participant experiences an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  the Participant may submit
a written petition to AT T (the Committee in the case of Officer Level
Employees), to receive a partial or full distribution of his Cash Deferral
Account(s).  In the event that AT T (the Committee in the case of
Officer Level Employees), upon review of the written petition of the
Participant, determines in its sole discretion that the Participant has suffered
an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  AT T shall make a distribution to the
Participant from the Participant s Cash Deferral Accounts , on a pro-rata basis,
within the later of 90 days following such determination or the end of the
calendar year in which determination was made, subject to the
following: 

            (a)            Unforeseeable
Emergency  shall mean a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting
from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s legal spouse,
the Participant s beneficiary, or the Participant s dependent (as defined in
Code Section 152, without regard to Code Section 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and
(d)(1)(B)); loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or other similar
extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events
beyond the control of the Participant, all as determined in the sole discretion
of the Committee.  Whether a Participant is faced with an
Unforeseeable Emergency permitting a distribution is to be determined based on
the relevant facts and circumstances of each case, but, in any case, a
distribution on account of Unforeseeable Emergency shall not be made to the
extent that such emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or
compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s
assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe
financial hardship, or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan. 

            (b)           The
amount of a distribution to be made because of an Unforeseeable Emergency shall
not exceed the amount reasonably necessary, as determined by AT T (the
Committee in the case of Officer Level Employees) in its sole discretion, to
satisfy the emergency need (which may include amounts necessary to pay any
Federal, state, local, or foreign income taxes or penalties reasonably
anticipated to result from the distribution).  Determinations of the
amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need shall take into
account any additional compensation that is available if the plan provides for
cancellation of a deferral election upon a payment due to an Unforeseeable
Emergency.  The determination of amounts reasonably necessary to
satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency need is not required to, but may, take into
account any additional compensation that, due to the Unforeseeable Emergency, is
available under another nonqualified deferred compensation plan but has not
actually been paid, or that is available due to the Unforeseeable Emergency
under another plan that would provide for deferred compensation except due to
the application of the effective date provisions under Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-6. 

            (c)           Upon
such distribution on account of an Unforeseeable Emergency under this Plan, any
election to make Employee Contributions by such Participant shall be immediately
cancelled, and the Participant shall not be permitted to make a new election
with respect to Employee Contributions that would be contributed during the then
current and immediately following calendar year. 

Page
9 

5.4      Ineligible
Participant.  

            Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if AT T receives an opinion
from counsel selected by AT T, or a final determination is made by a
Federal, state or local government or agency, acting within its scope of
authority, to the effect that an individual's continued participation in the
Plan would violate applicable law, then such person shall not make further
contributions to the Plan to the extent permitted by Section 409A. 

Article 6 - Transition
Provisions  

6.1        2005 Cash Deferral
Accounts.  

            Notwithstanding
Article 4 to the contrary, if an Employee is an Eligible Employee on September
30, 2004, the Employee may make an election under Article 4 on or prior to
December 15, 2004, with respect to the establishment of a Cash Deferral Account
for the contribution of Base Compensation and/or Incentive Awards that would
otherwise be paid during the period from January 1, 2005, through January 15,
2006, which shall be the Plan Year for such Cash Deferral Account. 

6.2      2007
Amendments.  

            (a)
Amendments made to the Plan on November 15, 2007, shall be effective January 1,
2008, except for amendments to this Article 7, which shall be effective upon
adoption.    Any Participants electing prior to November 15,
2007, to make Employee Contributions in 2008 shall have their elections canceled
if they do not consent by December 14, 2007, to all prior amendments to this
Plan and to the Stock Purchase and Deferral Plan.  Subject to the
foregoing consent requirements, all Employee Contribution elections made prior
to 2008, including but not limited to elections to contribute cash with respect
to Performance Shares granted that would be distributed under the 2001 Incentive
Plan or a successor plan, shall remain in force, subject to all other terms of
the amended Plan. 

(b)  Notwithstanding
Article 4 to the contrary, an Employee who is an Eligible Employee as of April
30, 2008, may thereafter make an election on or prior to the last Business Day
of the immediately following June with respect to the contribution of Team Award
or Short Term Incentive Award for the following Plan Year. 

Article 7 - Discontinuation,
Termination, Amendment . 

7.1        AT T's Right to Discontinue
Offering Cash Deferral Accounts.  

            The Committee
may at any time discontinue offerings of Cash Deferral Accounts or contributions
under the Plan.  Any such discontinuance shall have no effect upon
existing Cash Deferral Accounts or the terms or provisions of this Plan as
applicable to such Accounts. 

7.2        AT T's Right to Terminate
Plan.  

            The Committee
may terminate the Plan at any time.  Upon termination of the Plan,
contributions shall no longer be made under the Plan. 

After
termination of the Plan, Participants shall continue to earn interest on
undistributed amounts and shall continue to receive all distributions under this
Plan at such time as provided in and pursuant to the terms and conditions of
Participant's elections and this Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the termination of the Plan shall not cause the accelerated distribution of any
Account unless such termination is effected in accordance with Section
409A. 

Page
10 

7.3        Amendment.  

The Committee
may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part; provided, however, that no
amendment, including but not limited to an amendment to this section, shall be
effective, without the consent of a Participant, to alter, to the material
detriment of such Participant, any of the Cash Deferral Accounts of the
Participant, other than as provided elsewhere in this section.  For
purposes of this section, an alteration to the material detriment of a
Participant shall include, but not be limited to, a material reduction in the
period of time over which the Participant s Cash Deferral Account may be
distributed to a Participant, any reduction in the amounts credited to the
Participant's Cash Deferral Accounts, or any reduction in the Plan Interest Rate
(other than as it may fluctuate in accordance with its terms) for Cash Deferral
Accounts previously elected by the Participant.  Any such consent may
be in a writing, telecopy, or e-mail or in another electronic format. An
election to make Employee Contributions shall be conclusively deemed to be the
consent of the Participant to any and all amendments to the Plan prior to such
election, and such consent shall be a condition to making any election with
respect to Employee Contributions. 

The Plan is
established in order to provide deferred compensation to a select group of
management and highly compensated employees with in the meaning of Sections
201(2) and 301(a)(3) of ERISA. To the extent legally required, the Code and
ERISA shall govern the Plan, and if any provision hereof is in violation of an
applicable requirement thereof, the Company reserves the right to retroactively
amend the Plan to comply therewith to the extent permitted under the Code and
ERISA.  The Company also reserves the right to make such other changes
as may facilitate implementation of Section 409A.  Provided, however,
that in no event shall any such amendments be made in violation of the
requirements of Section 409 of the Code. 

Article 8 -
Miscellaneous  

8.1        Tax Withholding . 

            Upon a
distribution from a Participant s Cash Deferral Account, AT T shall withhold
sufficient amounts to satisfy the minimum amount of Federal, state, and local
taxes required by law to be withheld as a result of such
distribution. 

8.2        Elections and
Notices.  

            Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of
every kind under this Plan shall be made on forms prepared by AT T or the
General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates
or shall be made in such other manner as permitted or required by AT T or
the General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective
delegates, including through electronic means, over the Internet or
otherwise.  An election shall be deemed made when received by AT T
(or its designated agent, but only in cases where the designated agent has been
appointed for the purpose of receiving such election), which may waive any
defects in form.  Unless made irrevocable by the electing person, each
election with regard to making Employee Contributions or distributions of Cash
Deferral Accounts shall become irrevocable at the close of business on the last
day to make such election. AT T may limit the time an election may be made
in advance of any deadline. 

Page
11 

If
not otherwise specified by this Plan or AT T, any notice or filing required
or permitted to be given to AT T under the Plan shall be delivered to the
principal office of AT T, directed to the attention of the Senior Executive
Vice President in charge of Human Resources for AT T or his or her
successor.  Such notice shall be deemed given on the date of
delivery. 

Notice to the
Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the
Participant's work or home address as shown on the records of AT T or, at
the option of AT T, to the Participant's e-mail address as shown on the
records of AT T.  It is the Participant's responsibility to ensure
that the Participant's addresses are kept up to date on the records of
AT T.  In the case of notices affecting multiple Participants, the
notices may be given by general distribution at the Participants' work
locations. 

By
participating in the Plan, each Participant agrees that AT T may provide any
documents required or permitted under the Federal or state securities laws,
including but not limited to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by e-mail, by e-mail attachment, or
by notice by e-mail of electronic delivery through AT T's Internet Web site
or by other electronic means. 

8.3        Unsecured General
Creditor . 

            Participants
and their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, and assigns shall have no legal or
equitable rights, interest, or claims in any property or assets of any
Employer.  No assets of any Employer shall be held under any trust for
the benefit of Participants, their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or assigns,
or held in any way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations
of any Employer under this Plan.  Any and all of each Employer's
assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of such
Employer.  The only obligation of an Employer under the Plan shall be
merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of AT T to make
distributions under and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 

8.4        Non-Assignability . 

            Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign,
transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt, any Cash Deferral Account
under the Plan, if any, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which
are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No
part of  a distributable Cash Deferral Account shall, prior to actual
distribution, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any
debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any
other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a
Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency. 

8.5        Employment Not
Guaranteed . 

            Nothing
contained in this Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a
contract of employment or as giving any employee any right to be retained in the
employ of an Employer or to serve as a director. 

8.6      Errors.  

            At any time
AT T or an Employer may correct any error made under the Plan without
prejudice to AT T or any Employer.  Neither AT T nor any
Employer shall be liable for any damages resulting from failure to timely allow
any contribution to be made to the Plan or for any damages resulting from the
correction of, or a delay in correcting, any error made under the
Plan.  In no event shall AT T or any Employer be liable for
consequential or incidental damages arising out of a failure to comply with the
terms of the Plan. 

Page
12 

8.7      Captions.  

The captions
of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of this Plan are for convenience only
and shall not control nor affect the meaning or construction of any of its
provisions. 

8.8        Governing Law . 

            To the extent
not preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all benefits and agreements
hereunder, and any and all disputes in connection therewith, shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Texas,
without regard to conflict or choice of law principles which might otherwise
refer the construction, interpretation or enforceability of this Plan to the
substantive law of another jurisdiction. 

Because
benefits under the Plan are granted in Texas, records relating to the Plan and
benefits thereunder are located in Texas, and the Plan and benefits thereunder
are administered in Texas, AT T and the Participant under this Plan, for
themselves and their successors and assigns, irrevocably submit to the exclusive
and sole jurisdiction and venue of the state or Federal courts of Texas with
respect to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this Plan, the
subject matter of this Plan or any benefits under this Plan, including but not
limited to any disputes arising out of or relating to the interpretation and
enforceability of any benefits or the terms and conditions of this
Plan.  To achieve certainty regarding the appropriate forum in which
to prosecute and defend actions arising out of or relating to this Plan, and to
ensure consistency in application and interpretation of the Governing Law to the
Plan, the parties agree that (a) sole and exclusive appropriate venue for any
such action shall be an appropriate Federal or state court in Bexar County,
Texas, and no other, (b) all claims with respect to any such action shall be
heard and determined exclusively in such Texas court, and no other, (c) such
Texas court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over the person of such
parties and over the subject matter of any dispute relating hereto and (d) that
the parties waive any and all objections and defenses to bringing any such
action before such Texas court, including but not limited to those relating to
lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue or  forum non
conveniens . 

8.9        Plan to Comply with Section
409A.  

            In the event
any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same
shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other provision
of this Plan.  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this
Plan, each provision in this Plan shall be interpreted to permit the deferral of
compensation in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and any provision that
would conflict with such requirements shall not be valid or
enforceable. 

8.10      Successors and
Assigns . 

            This Plan
shall be binding upon AT T and its successors and assigns. 

Page 13 

</EX-10.CC>

<EX-10.KK>
 19
 ex10kk.htm
 BELLSOUTHCORPORATION EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE AWARD DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10kk.htm 

Exhibit
      10-kk  

BELLSOUTH
      CORPORATION  

       EXECUTIVE
      INCENTIVE AWARD DEFERRAL PLAN  

       (as
      amended and restated effective January 1, 2008)  

SECTION
      1. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE 

The
      purpose of the Executive Incentive
      Award Deferral Plan is to permit the deferral of all or a portion of an
      Executive's Short and/or Long Term Incentive Awards. The objective of the Plan
      is to provide a means of postponing the receipt of income until some future
      time
      (e.g., retirement, etc.).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no deferrals
      will be permitted under this Plan with respect to awards for services performed
      in years after 1997.  The Plan also provides for certain additional
      payments in recognition of reduced company matching contributions to Savings
      Plans on behalf of Executives under circumstances described herein; though
      no
      additional payments are due after 2008. 

SECTION
      2. DEFINITIONS 

1.   The
      word "Plan"
      shall mean the BellSouth Corporation Executive Incentive Award Deferral
      Plan. 

2.   The
      word "Company"
      shall mean the BellSouth Corporation, or its successors. 

3.   The
      words "Chairman
      of the Board," "President" and "Board of Directors" or "Board" shall mean the
      Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Board of Directors,
      respectively, of the Company. 

4.   The
      term
      "Executive" or "eligible employee" shall mean an employee of the Company (or
      a
      participating subsidiary of the Company) who holds a position which the Board
      of
      Directors has designated to be within that company's Executive Management
      Group. 

SECTION
      3. ADMINISTRATION 

1.   The
      senior Human
      Resources officer of the Company (the "Responsible Officer") shall be
      responsible for administration of the Plan. 

2.   The
      Responsible
      Officer shall have the exclusive responsibility and complete discretionary
      authority to control the operation and administration of the Plan, with all
      powers necessary to properly carry out such responsibility, including without
      limitation the power (i) to interpret the terms of the Plan including the power
      to construe ambiguous or uncertain terms, (ii) to establish reasonable
      procedures  with which participants must comply to exercise any right
      established  under the Plan, (iii) to determine status, coverage and
      eligibility for, and the amount of, benefits, (iv) to resolve all questions
      that
      arise in the operation and administration of the Plan, and (v) to delegate
      his
      responsibilities hereunder to any person or entity. All actions or
      determinations of the Responsible Officer (or his delegate) shall (subject
      to
      Section 3.3) be final, conclusive and binding on all persons. The rights and
      duties of participants and other persons and entities are subject to, and
      governed by, such acts of administration, interpretations, procedures, and
      delegations. 

3.   Claims
      for benefits
      under the Plan may be filed with the Responsible Officer (or his delegate)
      on
      forms or in such other written documents as the Responsible Officer may
      prescribe.  The Responsible Officer shall furnish to the claimant
      written notice of the disposition of a claim within 90 days after the
      application therefor is filed.  In the event the claim is denied, the
      notice of the disposition of the claim shall provide the specific reasons for
      the denial, citations of the pertinent provisions of the Plan, and where
      appropriate an explanation as to how the claimant can perfect the claim and/or
      submit the claim for review. 

Any
      eligible employee who has been
      denied a benefit shall be entitled, upon request to the Responsible Officer,
      to
      appeal the denial of the claim.  The claimant (or his duly authorized
      representative) may review pertinent documents related to the Plan and in the
      Responsible Officer's possession in order to prepare the appeal.  The
      request for review, together with written statement of the claimant's position
      must be filed with the Responsible Officer no later than 60 days after receipt
      of the written notification of denial of a claim provided for in the preceding
      paragraph.  The Responsible Officer's decision shall be made within 60
      days following the filing of the request for review.   If
      unfavorable, the notice of the decision shall explain the reasons for denial
      and
      indicate the provisions of the Plan or other documents used to arrive at the
      decision. 

SECTION
      4. BENEFITS 

1.   ELIGIBILITY 

An
      employee of the Company or a
      subsidiary of the Company which shall have elected to participate in the Plan
      (each such company sometimes being referred to herein as a "Participating
      Company") who is eligible for an award under his company's Short Term Incentive
      Plan and/or who has been granted an award under the BellSouth Corporation
      Executive Long Term Incentive Plan shall be eligible to participate in the
      Plan.  In addition, each person who is a "Participant" as that term is
      defined in Section 4A.2 of the Plan shall be eligible for benefits as described
      in Section 4A. 

2.   PARTICIPATION 

(a)
      Prior to the beginning of any
      calendar year, an eligible employee may elect to participate in the Plan by
      directing that all or part of the awards under his company's Short Term
      Incentive Plan and/or under the BellSouth Corporation Executive Long Term
      Incentive Plan which the employee's company would otherwise pay currently to
      the
      employee in which calendar year and subsequent calendar years shall be credited
      to a deferred account subject to the terms of the Plan. In no event, however,
      shall the part of an award under either plan credited to a deferred account
      subject to the terms of the Plan.  In no event, however, shall the
      part of an award under either plan credited during any calendar year be less
      than $1,000 (based on a valuation at the time the award would otherwise be
      paid). 

(b)
      Such an election to participate in
      the Plan shall be in the form of a document executed by the employee and filed
      with the employee's company.  An election related to awards otherwise
      payable currently in any calendar year shall become irrevocable on the last
      day
      prior to the beginning of the preceding calendar year. 

(c)
      An election shall continue until
      the employee terminates or modifies such election by written notice, or until
      the employee ceases to be employed by his company (other than a transfer to
      another company whose employees are eligible to participate in the Plan), in
      which case the employee shall be considered to have terminated the
      election.  Any such termination or modification shall become effective
      as of the end of the calendar year in which such notice is given with respect
      to
      all awards for which irrevocable elections regarding deferral have not been
      made. 

(d)
      An eligible employee who has filed
      a termination of election may thereafter again file an election to participate
      with respect to awards otherwise payable in calendar years subsequent to the
      filing of such election. 

(e)
      For the purpose of this Section 4,
      an election made by an eligible employee under the comparable provisions of
      the
      predecessor Bell System Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan ("the
      Predecessor Plan") shall be considered as an election made under this Section
      4,
      and the reference to short term incentive awards in such an election under
      the
      Predecessor Plan shall be considered to refer to awards under the Short Term
      Incentive Plan of any company participating in this Plan, and the reference
      to
      long term incentive awards in such an election shall be considered to refer
      to
      awards under the BellSouth Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan. 

3.   DEFERRED
      ACCOUNTS 

(a)
      Deferred amounts related to awards
      which would otherwise have been distributed in cash by a Participating Company
      shall be credited to the employee's account either (i) as cash, as described
      in
      Section 4.3(b), or (ii) as deferred Company shares, as described in Section
      4.3(c), as elected by the employee in the election form described in Section
      4.2(b).  Deferred amounts related to awards which would otherwise have
      been distributed in Company common shares by a Participating Company shall
      be
      credited to the employee's account as deferred Company shares, as described
      in
      Section 4.3(c).  The crediting of deferred amounts to an employee's
      account either as cash or deferred Company shares shall be for the sole purpose
      of determining the rate of return to be credited to the employee's account,
      and
      shall not be treated or interpreted in any manner whatsoever as a requirement
      or
      direction to actually invest assets in Company shares or any other investment
      media.  The Plan, as an unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation
      plan, shall not have any actual investment of assets relative to the benefits
      or
      accounts hereunder. 

(b)
      Deferred amounts credited to the
      employee's account as cash shall bear interest from the date the awards would
      otherwise have been paid.   The interest credited to the account
      will be compounded at the end of each calendar quarter, and the annual rate
      of
      interest applied at the end of any calendar quarter shall be determined by
      the
      Board of Directors from time to time.  In addition, if the employee's
      account under the Predecessor Plan has been transferred to an account under
      this
      Plan as of January 1, 1984 effective date of this Plan, then the employee's
      account under this Plan shall be credited as of such date with the amount
      credited to the employee's account under the Predecessor Plan as of December
      31,
      1983, and such amount shall bear interest in accordance with the preceding
      sentence from the effective date of the Plan.  An employee's account
      under the Predecessor Plan shall be transferred to an account under this Plan,
      if the employee is employed by a Participating Company on the effective date
      of
      the Plan. 

(c)
      To the extent that an employee
      elects to have deferred amounts credited to his or her account as deferred
      Company shares, such employee's account shall be credited as of the date(s)
      on
      which the related award(s) would otherwise have been distributed in cash, with
      the number of shares of Company stock equal to the number of such shares that
      could have been purchased with the dollar amount of such award(s) at the average
      of the high and low sales prices of Company common shares on the New York Stock
      Exchange ("NYSE") for the last day of the month preceding the day on which
      the
      related award(s) would otherwise have been distributed in cash or, if on such
      date the NYSE is not operating and open to the public for trading (a "Business
      Day"), on the Business Day most recently preceding such day.  Deferred
      amounts relating to awards which would otherwise have been distributed in
      Company common shares shall be credited to the employee's account with an
      equivalent number of deferred Company shares. 

Deferred
      amounts credited to the
      employee's account as deferred Company shares shall also be credited on each
      dividend payment date for Company shares with an amount equivalent to the
      dividend payable on the number of Company common shares equal to the number
      of
      deferred Company shares in the employee's account on the record date for such
      dividend.  Such amount shall then be converted to a number of
      additional deferred Company shares determined by dividing such amount by the
      price of Company common shares, as determined in the following
      sentence.  The price of Company common shares related to any dividend
      payment date shall be the average of the daily high and low sales prices of
      Company common shares on the NYSE for the period of five Business Days ending
      on
      such dividend payment date, or the period of five Business Days immediately
      preceding such dividend payment date if the dividend payment date is not a
      Business Day. 

(d)
      In the event of any change in
      outstanding Company common shares by reason of any stock dividend or split,
      recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares
      or
      other similar corporate change, the Board of Directors shall make such
      adjustments, if any, that it deems appropriate in the number of deferred Company
      shares then credited to employees' accounts. Any and all such adjustments shall
      be conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned. 

4.   DISTRIBUTION 

(a)
      At the time an eligible employee
      makes an election to participate in the Plan, the employee shall also make
      an
      election with respect to the distribution (during the employee's lifetime or
      in
      the event of the employee's death) of the amounts credited to the employee's
      deferred account.  Such an election related to awards otherwise
      payable currently in any calendar year shall become irrevocable on the last
      day
      prior to the beginning of such calendar year.  Amounts related to
      awards which would have been distributed in cash in the absence of a deferral
      election shall be distributed in cash.  In the case of amounts
      credited to the employee's account as deferred Company shares, the amount of
      the
      cash distribution shall be determined by multiplying the number of deferred
      Company shares in the employee's account by the price of Company common
      shares.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, the price of Company
      common shares shall be the average of the daily high and low sales prices of
      Company common shares on the NYSE for the last Business Day of the month
      preceding the payment date (described in Section 4(b)).  Amounts
      related to awards which would have been distributed in Company common shares
      in
      the absence of a deferral shall be distributed in the form of an equal number
      of
      Company common shares. 

(b)
      An employee may elect to receive
      the amounts credited to the employee's account in one payment or in some other
      number of approximately equal annual installments (not exceeding
      20).  The first installment (or the single payment of the employee has
      so elected) shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable following
      the
      first day of the calendar quarter next following the earlier of (1) the end
      of
      the month in which the employee attains the age specified in such election
      (not
      earlier than age 55), or (2) the end of the month in which the employee retires
      from a Participating Company, or otherwise terminates employment with any such
      company (except for a transfer to another such company). 

(c)
      Notwithstanding an election
      pursuant to this Section 4, Paragraph 4(b), the entire amount then credited
      to
      the employee's account shall be paid immediately in a single payment if an
      employee is discharged for cause by his company, or if an employee otherwise
      ceases to be employed by his company and becomes a proprietor, officer, partner,
      employee, or otherwise becomes affiliated with any business that is in
      competition with Company or any of its subsidiaries, or becomes employed by
      a
      governmental agency having jurisdiction over the activities of Company or any
      of
      its subsidiaries. 

(d)
      An employee may elect that, in the
      event the employee should die before full payment of all amounts credited to
      the
      employee's account, the balance of the deferred amounts shall be distributed
      in
      one payment or in some other number of approximately equal annual installments
      (not exceeding 10) to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated in writing
      by
      the employee, or if no designation has been made, to the estate of the employee
      in a lump sum. The first installment (or the single payment if the employee
      has
      so elected) shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable following
      the
      first day of the calendar quarter next following the month of
      death. 

(e)
      Installments subsequent to the
      first installment to the employee, or to a beneficiary or to the employee's
      estate, shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable following the
      first day of the applicable calendar quarter in each succeeding calendar year
      until the entire amount credited to the employee's deferred account shall have
      been paid.  Deferred amounts held pending distribution shall continue
      to be credited with interest or additional deferred Company shares,
      as  applicable, determined in accordance with this Section 4,
      Paragraph 3(a), (b) and (c). 

(f)
      The obligation to make distribution
      of deferred amounts credited to an employee's account during any calendar year
      plus the additional amounts credited on such deferred amounts pursuant to this
      Section 4, Paragraph 3(a), (b) and (c) shall be borne by the Participating
      Company which otherwise would have paid the related award
      currently.  However, the obligation to make distribution with respect
      to deferred amounts which are related to amounts credited to an employee's
      account as of the effective date of the Plan, pursuant to this Section 4
      Paragraph 3(a), and with respect to which no Participating Company would
      otherwise have paid the related award currently, shall be borne by the
      Participating Company which employed the employee on the effective date of
      the
      Plan. 

(g)
      For the purposes of this Section 4,
      an election described in Paragraph 4(a) or a beneficiary designation described
      in Paragraph 4(d) made under the comparable provision of the Predecessor Plan
      shall be considered as an election or beneficiary designation, respectively,
      made under this Section 4. 

SECTION
      4A. ADDITIONAL PAYMENT. 

1.   Each
      Participating
      Company shall pay to each Participant, as defined below, an amount determined
      under this Section at those times and in the manner prescribed in this Section
      notwithstanding any other obligation of the Participating Company to any person
      under the other provisions of this Plan. 

2.   For
      purposes of
      this Section: 

A.   "Participant"
      means
      any person who participates in the Nonqualified Plan in a Plan Year and any
      Executive who participates in a Savings Plan in a Plan Year. 

In
      addition to the above requirements, effective January 1, 2008, a Participant
      must have been designated as an Executive prior to January 1, 2008. 

B.   "Plan
      Year" means
      each calendar year, but for the first Plan Year means February 1, 1985 through
      December 31, 1985. 

C.   "Computation
      Date"
      means December 31 of each Plan Year. 

D.   "Payment
      Date"
      means (i) with respect to amounts accrued under this Section 4A prior to May
      1,
      1994, the second anniversary of each Computation Date, and (ii) with respect
      to
      amounts accrued under this Section 4A after April 30, 1994 and prior to January
      1, 2008, the day in each month on which Participants' regular monthly paychecks
      are delivered, and (iii) with respect to amounts accrued under this Section
      4A
      on or after January 1, 2008 and prior to January 1, 2009, the payroll payment
      date immediately following the last day of the month after the close of each
      calendar quarter (e.g., May 5, 2008 for amounts accrued January   March
      2008). 

E.   "Nonqualified
      Plan"
      means the BellSouth Corporation Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
      Plan. 

F.   "Savings
      Plan"
      means the BellSouth Retirement Savings Plan (the "RSP") and any predecessor
      or
      successor plan. 

3.   (A)
      For periods
      prior to May 1, 1994, each Participating Company shall pay to each Participant
      on each Payment Date an amount equal to: 

(1)
      The dollar amount, if any, actually
      deferred by the Participant pursuant to the Nonqualified Plan in the Plan Year
      (or, in the case of Plan Year 1994, the period prior to May 1, 1994) in which
      the Computation Date occurs, notwithstanding the amount that the Participant
      elected to defer pursuant to that plan, if different, plus the amount, if any,
      equal to the remaining base salary paid to the Participant during the Plan
      Year
      (or, in the case of Plan Year 1994, the period prior to May 1, 1994) in excess
      of the amount of such Participant's compensation which may be taken into account
      under Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
      "Code"), or any successor provision, plus, in the case of Participants who
      participate in and make the maximum allowable contribution to the RSP in a
      Plan
      Year (or, in the case of Plan Year 1994, the period prior to May 1, 1994),
      the
      amount of base salary (excluding any base salary taken into account under the
      preceding provisions of this paragraph 4A.3(A)(l)) paid to the Participant
      during the Plan Year in excess of the amount of base salary that would produce
      the maximum contribution to the RSP for a Participant who contributed to the
      RSP
      six percent (6%) of his or her Eligible Compensation, as that term or its
      replacement is defined in the RSP, for the Plan Year (or, in the case of Plan
      Year 1994, the period prior to May 1, 1994), 

(2)
      multiplied by the lesser of six
      percent (6%) or the percentage of such Participant's Salary or Eligible
      Compensation, as those terms or their replacements are defined in the Savings
      Plan, which the Participant actually caused to be contributed as before-tax
      or
      after-tax contributions to the Savings Plans in the Plan Year in which the
      Computation Date occurs (or, in the case of Plan Year 1994, the period prior
      to
      May 1, 1994), notwithstanding the amount elected to be contributed to the
      Savings Plans, if different; provided, however, that Participants who make
      the
      maximum allowable contribution to a Savings Plan in a Plan Year (or, in the
      case
      of  Plan Year 1994, the period prior to May 1, 1994) shall be deemed,
      for purposes of this Paragraph 4A.3(A)(2), to have caused to be contributed
      six
      percent (6%) of such Salary or Eligible Compensation for such Plan Year (or,
      in
      the case of Plan Year 1994, the period prior to May 1, 1994), 

(3)
      multiplied by the applicable
      percentage determined for that Plan Year (or, in the case of Plan Year 1994,
      the
      period prior to May 1, 1994) in which the Computation Date occurs as the
      percentage at which contributions by the Participant to the relevant Savings
      Plan are matched by Company contributions, 

(4)
      plus an amount of interest for the
      period  beginning on the first day of the Plan Year in which the
      Computation Date occurs and ending on the Payment Date, which interest shall
      be
      calculated on the same basis as interest is calculated on cash awards deferred
      under this Plan. 

(B)
      For periods after April 30, 1994
      and prior to January 1, 2009, each Participating Company shall pay to each
      Participant on each Payment Date an amount equal to: 

(1)
      the dollar amount, if any, actually
      deferred by the Participant pursuant to the Nonqualified Plan for the pay period
      in which such Payment Date occurs, notwithstanding the amount the Participant
      elected to defer pursuant to that plan, if different, plus the amount, if any,
      equal to the remaining base salary paid to the Participant for such pay period
      in excess of the amount of such Participant's compensation which  may
      be taken into account under Code Section 401(a)(17), or any successor provision,
      plus, in the case of Participants who participate in and make the maximum
      allowable contribution to the RSP for such pay period, the amount of base salary
      (excluding any base salary taken into account under the preceding provisions
      of
      this paragraph 4A.3(B)(l)) paid to the Participant during such pay period in
      excess of the amount of base salary that would produce the maximum contribution
      to the RSP for a Participant who contributed to the RSP six percent (6%) of
      his
      or her Eligible Compensation, as that term or its replacement is defined in
      the
      RSP, for such day period, 

(2)
      multiplied by the lesser of six
      percent (6%) or the percentage of such Participant's Salary or Eligible
      Compensation, as those terms or their replacements are defined in the Savings
      Plans, which the Participant actually caused to be contributed as before-tax
      or
      after-tax contributions to the Savings Plans for such pay period,
      notwithstanding the amount elected to be contributed to the Savings Plans,
      if
      different; provided, however, that Participants who make the maximum allowable
      contribution to a Savings Plan for a pay period shall be deemed, for purposes
      of
      this paragraph 4A.3(B)(2), to have caused to be contributed six percent (6%)
      of
      such Salary or Eligible Compensation for such pay period, 

(3)
      multiplied by the applicable
      percentage determined for such pay period as the percentage at which
      contributions by the Participant to the relevant Savings Plan are matched by
      Company contributions. 

(C)
      For periods on or after January 1,
      2009, no  additional payment  amounts under Section 4A shall be payable to any
      Participant. 

4.   A
      Participant who
      terminates employment shall be entitled to receive amounts payable under
      Paragraph 3 of this Section 4A on the Payment Dates otherwise scheduled except
      in the case of any termination of employment as described in Section 4,
      Paragraph 4(c), in which event all amounts otherwise payable under Section
      4A,
      Paragraph 3 shall be immediately forfeited. 

5.   In
      the event of a
      Participant's death prior to receipt of all amounts under Paragraph 3 of this
      Section 4A, all such unpaid amounts (except as provided in Section 4A, Paragraph
      4) shall be paid in a lump sum to the participant's estate as soon as is
      practical following his death. 

SECTION
      5. MISCELLANEOUS 

(1)
      The Participating Company only has
      contractual obligations to make payments to, or on behalf of, the Executive
      or
      Participant. The deferred amounts related to each Participating Company shall
      be
      held in the general funds of such company.  A Participating Company
      shall not be required to reserve or otherwise set aside funds for the payment
      of
      such deferred amounts.  Executives and Participants (and any other
      person who acquires a right to receive payments from a Participating Company
      under this Plan) have the status of general unsecured creditors of the
      Participating Company.  Nothing contained in this Plan shall create or
      be construed to create a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between
      any Participating Company and any Executive or Participant.  The
      rights of (or attributable to) any Executive or Participant hereunder may not
      be
      sold, assigned (either at law or in equity), transferred, pledged, encumbered
      or
      subject to attachment, garnishment, levy, execution or other legal or equitable
      process.  Nor shall any interest of the Executive or Participant be
      subject to the claims of any creditor of the Executive or
      Participant.  Finally, no Executive or Participant shall have any
      rights in any specific assets of any Participating Company.  Any
      accounting reserve established as a result of the Plan only reflects a
      contractual obligation of the Participating Company on its books of accounting
      and does not constitute a segregated fund of assets or separation of assets,
      and
      the obligations of each Participating Company only are payable from its
      operating assets at the time the payment is due. 

(2)
      In addition, (i) if any payment is
      made to (or attributable to) an Executive or Participant with respect to
      benefits described in this Plan from any source arranged by Company or a
      Participating Company including, without limitation, any fund, trust, insurance
      arrangement, bond, security device, or any similar arrangement, such payment
      shall be deemed to be in full and complete satisfaction of the obligation of
      the
      Participating Company under this Plan to the extent of such payment as if such
      payment had been made directly by the Participating Company; and (ii) if any
      payment from a source described in clause (i) above shall be made, in whole
      or
      in part, prior to the time payment would be made under the terms of this Plan,
      such payment shall be deemed to satisfy the Participating Company's obligation
      to pay Plan benefits beginning with the benefit which would next become payable
      under the Plan and continuing in the order in which benefits are so payable,
      until the payment from such other source is fully recovered.  In
      determining the benefits satisfied by a payment described in clause (ii), Plan
      benefits, as they become payable, shall be discounted to their value as of
      the
      date such actual payment was made using an interest rate equal to the valuation
      interest rate for deferred annuities as last published by the Pension Benefit
      Guaranty Corporation prior to the date of such actual payment. If the benefits
      which actually become payable under this Plan, after applying the discount
      described in the preceding sentence, are less than the amount of the payment(s)
      described in clause (ii), any such shortfall shall not be collected from or
      enforced against the Executive or Participant as a claim by the Participating
      Company. 

(3)
      The Board of Directors may at any
      time make changes in the Plan or terminate the Plan, but such changes or
      termination shall not adversely affect the rights of any employee or
      Participant, without his consent, to any benefit under the Plan to which such
      employee or Participant may have been previously entitled prior to the effective
      date of such change or termination. The Chairman or the Responsible Officer
      with
      the concurrence of the General Counsel of the Company shall be authorized to
      make minor or administrative changes to the Plan. 

</EX-10.KK>

<EX-10.RR>
 20
 ex10rr.htm
 CINGULAR WIRELESS LONG TERM COMP PLAN

ex10rr.htm 

Exhibit
10-rr 

        CINGULAR
WIRELESS 

        LONG TERM
COMPENSATION PLAN 

        (As
Amended and Restated 

        Effective
as of November 1, 2007) 

1.0            Purpose.  

The
purpose of the Cingular Wireless Long Term Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is to
provide Executives and Non-Executives with long term compensation as set forth
in the Plan and subject to additional objectives and requirements that may be
determined and set forth by the Administrator. The Plan, originally effective
January 1, 2002, was amended and restated in its entirety effective January 1,
2003, and January 1, 2004, and is further amended and restated in its entirety
effective January 1, 2005 as set forth herein. 

2.0            Definitions.  

Each term
set forth in this Section 2.0 shall have the respective meaning set forth
opposite such term for purposes of this Plan, and when the defined meaning is
intended the term is capitalized. 

Administrator 
means the Board, the Compensation Committee, or the Company Administrator, as
applicable. 

AT T 
means AT T Inc. 

Award 
means a final award payable under Section 6.0 following approval by the
Administrator. 

BellSouth 
means BellSouth Corporation. 

Beneficiary 
means the person designated by an Executive to receive any Award paid following
the Executive's death as determined pursuant to Section 8.2. 

"Board "
means the Board of Directors of the Cingular Wireless Corporation. 

Cause 
means willful and gross misconduct on the part of a Participant that is
materially and demonstrably detrimental to the Company (or any subsidiary or
affiliate of the Company) as determined by the Company in its sole
discretion. 

"Chief
Executive Officer" means the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company. 

Chief
Financial Officer  means the Chief Financial Officer of the
Company. 

Chief
Operating Officer  means the Chief Operating Officer of the
Company. 

"Code"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time. 

"Compensation
Committee" means a  committee of the Board which satisfies the
requirement of Section 162(m)(4)(C)(i) of the Code and has responsibility for
oversight of the Company s compensation and benefits programs. 

"Company"
means Cingular Wireless LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. 

Company
Administrator  means the Chief Executive Officer or a person designated by the
Chief Executive Officer 1) to administer the Plan for Executives other than the
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial
Officer and Executives who are direct reports to the Chief Executive Officer,
the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, and 2) to
administer the Plan for Non-Executives. 

"Consolidated
EBITDA" means consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for the Plan Year for which an Award based on Performance Units or
Performance Stock Units is paid, as determined through the audited consolidated
statement of income of the Company, adjusted to omit the effects of
extraordinary items, gain or loss on the disposal of a business segment (other
than provisions for operating losses or income during the phase-out period),
unusual or infrequently occurring events and transactions that have been
publicly disclosed and the cumulative effects of changes in accounting
principles, all as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. 

Corporation 
means Cingular Wireless Corporation, a Delaware corporation. 

Covered
Employee  means a Participant whom the Compensation Committee deems may be or
become a  covered employee,  as defined in Section 162(m)(3) of the Code, for
any Plan Year that such Award may result in remuneration to the Participant and
for which Plan Year such Participant may receive remuneration over $1 million
which would not be deductible under Section 162(m) of the Code but for the
provisions of the Plan and any other  qualified performance-based compensation 
plan (as defined under Section 162(m) of the Code of the Company; provided,
however, that the Compensation Committee may determine that a Participant has
ceased to be a Covered Employee prior to payment of any Award. 

Disability 
means being eligible for and approved for Long Term Disability benefits under
the Company s group long term disability plan for employees. 

Dividend
Equivalent Payments  means a cash payment equal to the dividends paid on a
common share of BellSouth or AT T stock during the Performance
Period.  The Administrator shall determine when dividend equivalent
payments are to be paid. 

Executive 
means any executive employee of the Company or any Subsidiary who is a member of
the executive compensation group under the Company's compensation practices and
who is identified by the Administrator, in its sole discretion, as eligible to
participate in the Plan, and is notified by the Administrator that he is
eligible to participate in the Plan. 

2 

Fair
Market Value  shall mean the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange
( NYSE ) for Shares on the relevant date, or if such date was not a trading day,
the next preceding trading date, all as determined by the
Administrator.  A trading day is any day that the Shares are traded on
the NYSE.  In lieu of the foregoing, the Administrator may select any
other index or measurement to determine the Fair Market Value of the Shares
under the Plan. 

Grant or Grants  means a grant of
Performance Units, Performance Stock Units, Restricted Stock Units or SA Units
to a Participant from the Administrator pursuant to the provisions of Section
6.0 of the Plan. 

Non-Executive 
means any employee that is not a member of the executive compensation group
under the Company s compensation practices and who is identified by the
Administrator , in its sole discretion, as eligible to participate and who is
notified by the Administrator that his is an eligible participant in the
Plan. 

Participant 
means any Executive or Non-Executive who is eligible to participate in this Plan
as determined by the Administrator and is notified in writing by the
Administrator that he is eligible to participate in the
plan.  Individuals classified, according to the Company s personnel or
other records, as leased employees, independent contractor, temporary agency
employees or temporary employees shall not be eligible to participate in the
Plan, even if they are deemed to be common law employees. 

Performance
Stock Units  or  PS Units  shall mean units granted to Participants with the
value of each unit determined by the stock prices of a Share of common stock of
BellSouth and AT T as of the Valuation Date pursuant to Section 6.1 of the
Plan. Each Performance Stock Unit shall be eligible to receive Dividend
Equivalent Payments as determined by the Administrator.  Performance
Stock Units do not have any ownership or voting rights related to the underlying
Shares of common stock of BellSouth or AT T. 

Performance
Units  shall mean cash units awarded to Participants pursuant to this
Plan. 

"Plan"
means this Cingular Wireless Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to
time. 

Plan
Year  means the calendar year. 

Retirement 
means the termination of employment for reasons other than Death or Disability,
on or after the date on which (1) the Participant is first eligible, upon
Termination of Employment, for retiree health coverage in accordance with the
terms of the Company s health plan (or the health plans of AT T Inc.
("AT T") or BellSouth Corporation ("BellSouth") with respect to certain
Participants who transferred from BellSouth and AT T to Cingular Wireless
LLC ("Cingular") as part of the formation of Cingular and met certain age and
service requirements at the time of their contribution to Cingular and whose
retiree health coverage will be provided by either BellSouth or AT T) all as
determined by the Company s health plan and the administrator of such plan, in
its sole discretion, (2) a Participant (who is also a participant in the
AT T 2006 Incentive Plan) is considered by AT T Inc. to be eligible for
 Retirement,  for purposes of the AT T 2006 Incentive Plan or (3) the
Participant is eligible to retire under any other guidelines established by the
Administrator. 

3 

Restricted
Stock Units  or  RS Units  shall mean units granted to Participants with the
value of each unit determined by the stock prices of a Share of common stock of
BellSouth and AT T as of the Valuation Date pursuant to Section 6.3 of the
Plan. Each Restricted Stock Unit shall be eligible to receive Dividend
Equivalent Payments as determined by the Administrator.  Restricted
Stock Units do not have any ownership or voting rights related to the underlying
Shares of common stock of BellSouth or AT T. 

SA
Units  or  Stock Appreciation Units  shall mean the stock appreciation units
granted to Participants pursuant to Section 6.2 of the Plan. 

SA Unit
Exercise Date  means the date on which exercise of a SA Unit occurs under the
Plan. 

SA Unit
Exercise Price  means the Fair Market Value of a Share on the SA Unit Exercise
Date. 

SA Unit
Grant Date  means the date on which a SA Unit is granted to a Participant under
the Plan. 

SA Unit
Grant Price  means the Fair Market Value of a Share on the SA Unit Grant
Date. 

Shares 
means shares of common stock of BellSouth or AT T, as applicable, under
Section 6.2 of the Plan.  When granting Restricted Stock Units,
Performance Stock Units, or SA Units, the Administrator, in its discretion,
shall determine the percentage of each Performance Stock Unit, Restricted Stock
Unit or SA Unit that is attributable to BellSouth Shares and AT T Shares,
respectively. 

"Subsidiary"
means any corporation, joint venture or partnership in which the Cingular
Wireless owns directly or indirectly (i) with respect to a corporation, stock
possessing at least ten percent ( 10% ) of the total combined voting power of
all classes of stock in the corporation, or (ii) in the case of a joint venture
or partnership, a ten percent ( 10% ) or more interest in the capital or profits
of such joint venture or partnership. 

4 

Termination
of Employment  means the event where the Participant is no longer an employee of
the Company or of any Subsidiary or member of the Company s controlled group of
corporations or entities as determined by the Code. 

Valuation
Date  shall mean the date on which the Valuation Price of each Restricted Stock
Unit or Performance Stock Unit is determined. 

Valuation
Price  shall mean the value of each Restricted Stock Unit or Performance Stock
Unit based on the average of the closing prices on the New York Stock Exchange
( NYSE ) for Shares for the 10 trading days preceding the Valuation
Date.  A trading day is any day that the Shares are traded on the
NYSE.  In lieu of the foregoing, the Administrator may select any
other 10 day trading period to determine the value of each Restricted Stock Unit
or Performance Stock Unit. 

5 

3.0            Effective
Date.  

The Plan
was originally effective beginning for Awards granted for the 2002 Plan
Year.  The Plan was amended and restated effective January 1, 2003 and
January 1, 2004, and further amended and restated as set forth herein effective
January 1, 2005 and shall remain in effect until terminated by the
Board. 

4.0            Administration.  

This Plan
shall be administered by the Board or Compensation Committee, as applicable, for
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial
Officer and any Executive who is a direct report to the Chief Executive Officer,
the Chief Operating Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer.  The
Plan shall be administered by the Company Administrator for all other Executives
and Non-Executives.  The Administrator  shall (a) determine
who is an eligible Participant under the Plan, (b) determine the number of
Grants made under the Plan to each Participant, (c) determine the Performance
Goals (as defined in Section 6.1(d) for determining Awards, (d) determine the
terms and conditions of all Grants under the Plan, (e) determine the Fair Market
Value of Shares, (f) approve and provide for payment for all Awards, (g)
establish the Valuation Date and the Valuation Price, (h) interpret the Plan,
and (i) make all other decisions relating to the operation of the Plan. The
Administrator s actions and determinations under the Plan shall be completely at
its sole, absolute and final discretion, and all such actions and determinations
shall be final and binding on all persons.  No Administrator shall be
personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation with respect
to the Plan or Awards.  All Administrators shall be protected and
indemnified by the Company, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law,
in respect of any such action, determination or interpretation. The
Administrator may adopt such regulations and guidelines as it deems are
necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Plan. 

5.0            Eligibility . 

Participants
shall be eligible for Awards under this Plan. Executives are not rendered
ineligible by reason of being a member of the Board. The Administrator may
establish such additional rules for eligibility as it determines are
appropriate. The actual payment of an Award  to any eligible
Participant shall be at the discretion of the Administrator as provided in
Sections 4.0, 6.3 and related sections of the Plan. 

6.0            Grants and Payment of
Awards  

6.1            Performance Units or
Performance Stock Units  

(a)            Grants of Performance Units
or Performance Stock Units .  Subject to the terms of the Plan,
Performance Units or Performance Stock Units may be granted to Participants at
any time and from time, as determined by the Administrator.  The
Administrator shall have complete discretion in determining the number of
Performance Units or Performance Stock Units granted to each Participant and the
conditions for the receipt of an Award based on a Grant of Performance Units or
Performance Stock Units. 

6 

(b)            Value of Performance Units
or Performance Stock Units .  A Performance Unit shall be equal
in value to a fixed dollar amount determined by the Administrator.  A
Performance Stock  Unit shall be equal in value to the Valuation Price
on the Valuation Date as determined by the Administrator.  The
Valuation Price shall be used in establishing the cash payment to be paid once
the vesting requirements as adopted by the Administrator have been
satisfied. 

(c)            Performance
Period .  The Performance Period for Performance Units or
Performance Stock Units is the period over which the Performance Goals are
measured.  The Performance Period shall be set by the Administrator
for each Grant; however, in no event shall a Grant have a Performance Period of
less than two Plan Years. 

(d)            Performance
Goals .  For each Grant of Performance Units or Performance
Stock Units, the Administrator shall establish performance objectives
( Performance Goals ) for determining whether Awards based on Performance Units
or Performance Stock Units are payable.  Performance Goals shall
include payout tables, formula or other any other standards determined by the
Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, to be used in determining the extent
to which the Performance Goals are met and Awards are payable. 

(e)          Awards
Based on Performance Units or Performance Stock Units.  The amount of
any Award to be paid to an eligible Participant shall be determined by the
Administrator in its discretion as set forth in Section 4.0 based on the
attainment of Performance Goals, subject only to the limits of Section
6.1(f).  Awards shall be based on and payable for a Performance
Period.  All Awards for a Performance Period determined by the
Administrator under this Section 6.1 shall be paid by the Company and its
Subsidiaries in cash as soon as is practicable following Administrator
certification as provided in Section 6.1(g).  Except as otherwise
determined by the Administrator, a Participant must be actively employed by the
Company on the last day of the last Plan Year of any Performance Period and on
the date of payment of any Award as a condition precedent to the receipt of any
Award.  Participants not meeting this requirement will be considered
to have not met the requirements for receipt of the Award and shall not be paid
such Award.  Notwithstanding this condition and requirement,
Participants who do not meet this condition due to Death, Retirement or
Disability, shall be entitled to the receipt of a pro-rated payment for the
Performance Period.  No other partial or pro-rated payments are
permitted under the Plan.  In the event of the Participant s death,
any Award payable shall be made to the Participant s Beneficiary, as governed by
Section 7.2.  The Administrator shall have the sole discretion to
determine the date on which payments are made.  Awards payable to
Participants who incur a Termination of Employment on or after November 1, 2007,
shall be governed the provisions of Appendix A to the Plan. 

(f)   Dividend Equivalent Payments
related to Performance Stock Units .  Participants shall be
eligible to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for each Performance Stock Unit
that has been granted to a Participant.  All Dividend Equivalent
Payments will be settled in cash.  The Administrator shall have the
sole discretion to determine the date on which payments are made and sole
discretion to determine if the Dividend Equivalent Payments are subject to
Performance Goals.  The Administrator also reserves the discretion to
reduce or eliminate the amount of Dividend Equivalent Payments payable to a
Participant following the Participant s Termination of Employment. 

7 

(g)  Application of Section
162(m) to Performance Units or Performance Stock Units . 

(1)           In
the event that the Company becomes subject to the requirements of Section 162(m)
of the Code, Awards payable to Covered Employees after such time shall
constitute  qualified performance-based compensation  and shall be subject to
the achievement of an overall performance goal based on Consolidated EBITDA in
order that payments are deductible under Section 162(m) of the
Code. 

(2)           In
the event the Company becomes subject to the provisions of Section 162(m) of the
Code, Awards payable after such time to Covered Employees shall only be payable
under this Plan for a Plan Year if the Company has positive Consolidated EBITDA
for the Plan Year. Furthermore, the maximum award that may be payable under this
Plan for a Plan Year (i) to a Covered Employee who is the Chief Executive
Officer for any part of the Plan Year, and (ii) to each other Covered Employee
will be (i) 0.5% and (ii) 0.3%, respectively, of Consolidated EBITDA for the
Plan Year.  This resulting amount for any Plan Year shall be the limit
established for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, and the actual amount
paid to any Executive shall only be that amount, if any, determined by the
Administrator under Sections 6.1 and related sections of the Plan. 

(3)           In
the event that Awards payable to any Covered Employee become subject to the
limitations of Section 6.1(f)(2) above,  the Compensation Committee
shall determine the maximum amounts that may be paid under Section 6.1(f)(2) for
the Plan Year to any Covered Employee and shall certify that any Awards
determined under Section 6.1 are within such limits. 

(h)            Deferral of Awards Based on
Performance Units or Performance Stock Units . Payments may be subject to
deferral under  any deferral plan established by the Company for this
purpose, provided that in the event Section 162(m) is applicable, any additional
amounts credited to any Covered Employee under any such deferral plan or program
during the period of deferral shall be determined based either on a reasonable
rate of interest or on a specific investment or deemed investment, including
Company stock, as may be determined by the Compensation Committee within the
limits of the regulations under Section 162(m) of the Code. 

6.2            Stock Appreciation
Units  

(a)            Grants of Stock Appreciation
Units .  Subject to the terms of the Plan, Stock Appreciation
Units may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time, as
determined by the Administrator.  The Administrator shall have
complete discretion in determining the number of SA Units awarded to each
Participant. 

(b)            Vesting of SA
Units .  Participants shall vest in SA Units according to the
vesting schedule adopted by the Administrator.  In the event of a
Participant s Death, Retirement or Disability, all outstanding SA Units shall
become fully vested. 

8 

(c)            Exercise of SA
Units .  Subject to subsection (d) below, SA Units, once vested,
shall be exercisable over the period established by the Administrator, which
period shall not exceed (10) years from the date the SA Units are
granted. 

(d)            Lapse of SA
Units . 

(1)   Termination of
Employment .  In the event of his termination of employment with
the Company for any reason, a Participant s vested SA Units shall lapse at the
end of the three month period following the Participant s termination date or
the remaining life of the SA Unit, whichever is earlier.  A terminated
Participant s unvested options shall lapse on his termination
date.  Any lapsed SA Units shall be void, without value and
unexercisable. 

(2)   Termination of Employment
Due to Retirement, Death or Disability .  Notwithstanding the
foregoing subsection, the vested SA Units of Participant who terminates
employment with the Company on account of Death, Retirement or Disability shall
lapse at the end of the five year period following the Participant s Death,
Retirement or Disability or the remaining life of the SA Unit, whichever is
earlier. 

(e)            Payment of Award at
Exercise .  Upon the exercise and settlement of a SA Unit in
accordance with the terms of this Plan and other requirements set forth by the
Administrator, the Participant shall receive a payment equal to the excess, if
any, of the SA Unit Exercise Price for the number of SA Units being exercised at
that time over the SA Unit Grant Price for such SA Units.  Such
payment shall be made in cash.  The Administrator shall have the sole
discretion to determine the date on which payments are made.  The
Administrator also reserves the discretion to reduce or eliminate the amount of
Dividend Equivalent Payments payable to a Participant following the
Participant s Termination of Employment. 

(f)            Transferability During
Lifetime .  During the lifetime of a Participant to whom SA
Units have been granted, only the Participant (or such Participant s legal
representative) may exercise such Grant and receive payment of an
Award.  No Grant of SA Units may be sold, assigned, transferred,
exchanged, or otherwise encumbered or made subject to any creditor s process,
whether voluntary, involuntary or by operation of law, and any attempt to do
shall be of no effect. 

(g)            Transferability Upon
Death .  In the event of a Participant s death, all of such
person s outstanding SA Unit Grants will transfer to the maximum extent
permitted by law to such person s Beneficiary (subject to the provisions of
Section 7.2 of the Plan) subject to additional rules and restrictions that may
be adopted by the Administrator. 

(h)            Application of Section
162(m) on SA Units .  In the event the Company becomes subject
to the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code, Awards based on SA Units shall
constitute  qualified performance based compensation  and the maximum Grant that
may be made to a Covered Employee under the Plan for a Plan Year is 750,000 SA
Units. 

9 

6.3            Restricted Stock
Units  

(a)            Grants of Restricted Stock
Units .  Subject to the terms of the Plan, Restricted Stock
Units may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time, as
determined by the Administrator.  The Administrator shall have
complete discretion in determining the number of RS Units awarded to each
Participant. 

(b)     Vesting of RS
Units .  Participants shall vest in RS Units according to the
vesting schedule adopted by the Administrator.   The date on
which the vesting schedule is fulfilled shall be the Valuation
Date.  

        (c)            Value of RS
Units .  A Restricted Stock Unit shall be equal in value to the
Valuation Price on the Valuation Date as determined by the
Administrator.  The Valuation Price shall be used in establishing the
cash payment to be paid once the vesting requirements as adopted by the
Administrator have been satisfied. 

(d)            Awards Based on Restricted
Stock Units .  Once the vesting requirement adopted by the
Administrator has been fulfilled, an Award shall be paid to an eligible
Participant based on the Valuation Price on the Valuation Date as determined by
the Administrator.  All Awards shall be paid by the Company and its
Subsidiaries in cash as soon as is practicable following the Valuation
Date.  Except as otherwise determined by the Administrator, a
Participant must be actively employed by the Company on the Valuation Date to
receive an Award.  Any unvested Grant will be cancelled following
separation of employment.  Notwithstanding this condition and
requirement, Participants who do not meet this condition due to Death,
Retirement or Disability, shall be entitled to the receipt of a pro-rated
Award.  In the event of the Participant s death, any Award payable
shall be made to the Participant s Beneficiary, as governed by Section
7.2.  The Administrator shall have the sole discretion to determine
the date on which payments are made.  Awards payable to Participants
who incur a Termination of Employment on or after November 1, 2007, shall be
governed the provisions of Appendix A to the Plan. 

(e)   Dividend Equivalent Payments
related to Restricted Stock Units .  Participants shall be
eligible to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for each unvested Restricted
Stock Unit that has been granted to a Participant.  All Dividend
Equivalent Payments will be settled in cash.  The Administrator shall
have the sole discretion to determine the date on which payments are
made. 

(f)            Maximum
Grant .  The maximum Grant of RS Units that can be made to a
Participant is  250,000 RS Units. 

6.4            Complete
Discretion .  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan
or related documents, the Administrator shall, at all times, have the sole and
complete discretion to determine whether any Awards are to be paid under the
Plan, the amount of any such Awards and the recipient of any such
Awards. 

10 

7.0            Miscellaneous Administrative
Provisions.  

7.1.            Amendment and Termination.
 The Administrator shall have the unilateral right to amend, modify,
suspend or terminate the Plan at any time for any reason; provided, that in the
event Section 162(m) is applicable, approval by shareholders shall be required
as provided in the regulations under Section 162(m) of the Code for any
amendment that would have the effect of changing the class of employees eligible
for consideration for Awards under Section 5.0, materially changing the
definition of Consolidated EBDITA, changing the formula in Sections 6.1(f)(2)
and 6.2(h) for determining the maximum amount of Grants or Awards paid to any
Executive or changing the provisions of Section 6.1(g) regarding the credit of
additional amounts on deferred Awards. 

7.2.            Beneficiary
 .  A Participant may name, from time to time, any beneficiary
or beneficiaries (which may be named contingently or successively) as his or her
Beneficiary for purposes of the Plan.  Each designation shall be on a
form prescribed by the Administrator, will be effective only when delivered to
the Company, and when effective will revoke all prior designations by the
Participant.  If a Participant dies with no such beneficiary
designation in effect, or if the Administrator determines that there is any
question about the legal right of the designated beneficiary , such
Participant's Beneficiary shall be his or her estate.  The
Administrator shall set forth additional rules and requirements regarding the
rights of Beneficiaries to receive payment of an Award or exercise a vested SA
Unit following the Participant s death. 

7.3.            No Right to Awards.
 No person shall have any claim to receive a Grant or to be paid an Award
under the Plan and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of
eligible Participants under the Plan. The selection of a Participant to receive
Grants or be paid Awards and the amount and payment of Awards rests completely
in the absolute and final discretion of the Administrator. The Administrator's
discretion is limited only by the maximum amount of a Grant or Award that it may
pay as provided in Sections 6.1(f)(2) and 6.2(h), if applicable. Neither the
existence of this maximum, nor any prior practice by the Administrator as to the
payment or amount of awards, creates an obligation by the Committee to pay any
award for any Plan Year or to pay an award equal to the maximum or any other
amount 

7.4            No Right to
Employment/Continued Service or Awards .  The making of a Grant
or payment of an Award under the Plan shall impose no obligation on the Company
or any Subsidiary to continue the employment or service of a Participant and
shall not lessen or affect the Company s or Subsidiary s right to terminate the
employment or service of such Participant.  No Participant or other
Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation
for uniformity of treatment of Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of
Awards.  The terms and conditions of Grants and Awards and the
Administrator s determinations and interpretations with respect thereto need not
be the same with respect to each Participant (whether or not such Participants
are similarly situated). 

11 

7.5.            No Funding.  This Plan
shall be unfunded and no assets of the Company or a Subsidiary shall be
segregated for the purpose of paying any Awards. 

7.6.            Taxes or Deductions. 
The Company or any Subsidiary shall withhold from any payment under the Plan
such taxes as it deems are sufficient to cover any withholding taxes that may
become required with respect to such payment. The Company or any Subsidiary
shall have the right to require the payment to it of any such taxes and require
that any person furnish information deemed necessary by such company to meet any
tax reporting obligation before making any payment under the
Plan.  The Company shall also withhold any other authorized or
required amounts or deductions. 

7.7            Other Incentive
Plans .  Nothing in this Plan shall prevent the Company and its
subsidiaries from maintaining other incentive compensation plans providing for
the payment of incentive awards to employees, provided that the requirements of
Section 162(m), if applicable, are met by the Company in the administration and
operation of such other plans. 

7.8            Company Benefit
Plans.   The terms of the Company s benefit plans shall
determine whether Awards are included as compensation or earnings under the
particular benefit plan. 

7.9       Governing Law and Venue.
 This Plan and all related documents shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Georgia, without regard to the conflict of laws provisions thereof
(except to the extent provisions of federal law may be
applicable).  Acceptance of a Grant shall be deemed to constitute
consent to the jurisdiction and venue of the Superior Court of Fulton County,
Georgia and the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Georgia for all purposes in connection with any suit, action, or other
proceeding relating to such Grant or a corresponding Award, including the
enforcement of any rights under this Plan or other document, and shall be deemed
to constitute consent to any process or notice of motion in connection with such
proceeding being served by certified or registered mail or personal service
within or without the State of Georgia, provided a reasonable time for
appearance is allowed.   

12 

Appendix
A   

Terminations of Employment on
or  

         After November 1,
2007  

Notwithstanding
the provisions of Sections 6.1(e) and 6.3(d) of the Plan requiring a Participant
to be actively employed on the last day of the Plan Year of any Performance
Period and on the date of payment of any Award as a condition precedent to the
payment of an Award (and the provisions related to payments in the event of
Death, Disability and Retirement), Participants who do not meet these
requirements due to a Termination of Employment on or after November 1, 2007,
shall be eligible to receive the following payments for a Performance
Period: 

Reason for Termination of
      Employment  

Payment of Performance Units,
      Performance Stock Units or Restricted Stock Units Granted
      for  

                   a Performance
      Period  

Death
      or Disability (not eligible for Retirement) 

The
      entire Award will be distributed in a lump sum payment in the year
      following the Participant s Termination from Employment as if the
      Performance Goals were met at a level of 100%. 

For
      Cause (even if eligible for Retirement) 

The
      entire Award will be immediately forfeited at the time of the
      Participant s Termination of Employment. 

Other
      Reasons (not eligible for Retirement) 

Participant s
      Award is reduced and the Participant may receive no more than a pro-rated
      payout of the Award, based on the number of months during which the
      Participant was actively employed during the Performance Period.   1    

Retirement
      (all reasons except for Cause) 

The
      entire Award may be paid out under the same terms as if the Participant
      were still actively employed by the Company or a Subsidiary on the last
      day of the last Plan Year of the Performance Period and on the date of
      payment of the Award.   1    

1   Payment, if
any, will be at the regular time for payment ( i.e ., following the
completion of the Performance Period and certification by the Administrator of
the Performance Goals and level of payment), and the Award payment will be based
upon the Company s actual results with respect to the Performance Goals and
other conditions as set forth in the Plan and as determined by the
Administrator.  Also, within its sole discretion and without
limitation, the Administrator may reduce or eliminate the Award before the
payout of the Award, but only to the extent such Award would not have been
payable but for this amendment. 

Except as
herein modified, the remaining provisions of Section 6.1(e) and 6.3(d) of the
Plan, as applicable, shall remain in full force and effect. 

14  

</EX-10.RR>

<EX-10.YY>
 21
 ex10yy.htm
 CINGULAR WIRELESS CASH DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10yy.htm 

Exhibit
10-yy 

CINGULAR WIRELESS CASH DEFERRAL
PLAN  

Effective:
November 1, 2001 

ARTICLE 1
- - STATEMENT OF PURPOSE 

The
purpose of the Cingular Wireless Cash Deferral Plan ("Plan") is to provide a
select group of management employees of Cingular Wireless LLC ("CWLLC") and
affiliate companies that participate in the Plan with an opportunity (i) to
defer the receipt and income taxation of a portion of such individual's
compensation; and (ii) to receive an investment return on those deferred
amounts. 

ARTICLE 2
- - DEFINITIONS 

For
the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings indicated, unless the context indicates otherwise: 

ADMINISTRATOR.
The Board or Committee, if such Committee is appointed, as determined by the
Board. The Board/Committee may delegate administrative authority to the Chief
Executive Officer, the senior Human Resources division officer or another
individual. The Administrator may select an outside third party as the
recordkeeper of the Plan. 

AFFILIATE.
Any corporation, partnership, venture or other entity in which Cingular Wireless
or CWLLC holds, directly or indirectly, a 10% or greater ownership interest. The
Administrator may, in its sole discretion, designate any other corporation,
partnership, venture or other entity an Affiliate for the purpose of allowing it
to participate in the Plan. 

BASE
SALARY. The annual base salary, as determined by the Administrator, paid by an
Employer, before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to this Plan or
reduction pursuant to any deferral plan of an Employer, including but not
limited to a plan that includes a qualified cash or deferred arrangement under
Section 401(k) of the Code. 

Payments
by an Employer under a Disability plan made in lieu of any Base Salary shall be
deemed to be a part of the respective form of compensation it replaces for
purposes of this definition. Base Salary does not include zone allowances or any
other geographical differential and shall not include payments made in lieu of
unused vacation or other paid days off, and such payments shall not be deemed to
be contributed to this Plan. 

BOARD.  The
Board of Directors of Cingular Wireless. 

BONUS
AWARD. An incentive award based on an assessment of performance, payable by the
Employer to a Participant with respect to the Participant's services during a
given fiscal year of the Employer. Such amounts shall be deemed earned only upon
award by the Employer. For purposes of the Plan, "Bonus Award" shall not include
incentive awards which relate to a period exceeding one (1) fiscal
year. 

BUSINESS
DAY. Any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banks in Atlanta,
Georgia, are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to
close. 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS.  Cingular Wireless Corporation. 

CODE.
The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

COMMITTEE.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Cingular Wireless, if
such committee is appointed, or other committee with responsibility for
oversight of the compensation and benefit programs. 

CONTRIBUTION
ACCOUNT. The accounting entry as to each Participant showing the amount of such
Participant's Contributions, interest credits and Matching Contributions
credited to such account. 

CWLLC.
Cingular Wireless LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, of which Cingular
Wireless is the manager. 

DISABILITY.
Absence of an Employee from work with an Employer under the relevant Employer's
disability plan, but only while such Employee is deemed by the Employer to be an
Employee of such Employer. 

ELIGIBLE
EMPLOYEE.  An Employee who: 

(a)
is a full time, salaried Employee who is on active duty, Disability or Leave of
Absence, 

(b)
is, as determined by the Administrator, a member of the Employer's "select group
of management or highly compensated employees" such that the Plan will qualify
for treatment as a "Top Hat" plan within the meaning of ERISA, 

(c)
has an employment status which has been approved by the Administrator to be
eligible to participate in this Plan and 

(d)
has been notified in writing by the Administrator that he is eligible to
participate in the Plan. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Administrator may, from time to time, exclude any Employee or
group of Employees from being deemed an "Eligible Employee" under this
Plan. 

In the
event a court or other governmental authority determines that an individual was
improperly excluded from the class of persons who would be considered Eligible
Employees during a particular time for any reason, that individual shall not be
an Eligible Employee for purposes of the Plan for the period of time prior to
such determination. 

EMPLOYEE.
Any person classified as an "employee" according to the payroll and personnel
records of an Employer, excluding persons hired for a fixed maximum term and
excluding persons who are neither citizens nor permanent residents of the United
States, all as determined by the Administrator. Individuals classified as leased
employees or independent contractors according to an Employer's payroll and
personnel records shall not be eligible to participate. For purposes of this
Plan, a person on Leave of Absence who otherwise would be an Employee shall be
deemed to be an Employee. 

EMPLOYER.
CWLLC or any Affiliates that adopt the Plan with the consent of the Chief
Executive Officer. 

ERISA.
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 

EXECUTIVE.
An Employee who is in a position that is eligible to participate in the
Employer's Executive Compensation Programs as determined by the
Administrator. 

LEAVE
OF ABSENCE. Where a person is absent from employment with an Employer on a
formally granted leave of absence (i.e., the absence is with formal permission
in order to prevent a break in the continuity of term of employment, which
permission is granted (and not revoked) in conformity with the rules of the
Employer which employs the individual, as adopted from time to time). For
purposes of this Plan, a Leave of Absence shall be deemed to also include a
transfer of an individual to an entity that is not an Affiliate by an Employer
for a rotational work assignment. In the event a transfer to such an entity
lasts more than 5 years or the entity's rotational work assignment status is
canceled by Cingular Wireless, it shall be deemed a Termination of Employment at
that time for purposes of this Plan. To be a rotational work assignment, the
Employer must have indicated in writing to the individual that the individual
was to be rehired by the Employer on termination of the rotational work
assignment. 

LONG-TERM
INCENTIVE AWARD. An incentive award, based on an assessment of performance over
a period greater than one (1) year, payable by the Employer to a Participant and
shall be deemed earned only upon award by the Employer. 

MATCHING
CONTRIBUTIONS. The contributions credited to a Participant's Contribution
Account pursuant to Section 4.4. 

PARTICIPANT.
An Eligible Employee or former Eligible Employee who participates in the
Plan. 

PARTICIPANT
CONTRIBUTIONS. The amounts Eligible Employees are deemed to contribute, by
deferring amounts otherwise payable to them, pursuant to Sections 4 of the
Plan. 

PLAN.
Cingular Wireless Cash Deferral Plan. 

RETIREMENT
OR RETIRE. The Termination of Employment for reasons other than death or
Disability, on or after the date on which (1) the Employee is first eligible,
upon terminating employment, for retiree health coverage in accordance with the
terms of the Employer's health plan; or (2) the Employee is eligible to retire
under any other guidelines established by the Administrator. 

SALES
INCENTIVES. An incentive award, based on an assessment of performance under an
approved sales incentive compensation plan, that is determined by the
Administrator to qualify as eligible compensation under this Plan. 

TERMINATION
OF EMPLOYMENT. References herein to "Termination of Employment," "Terminate
Employment" or a similar reference, shall mean the event where the Employee
ceases to be an Employee of any Employer, including but not limited to where the
employing company ceases to be an Employer. 

ARTICLE 3
- - ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

3.1      THE
ADMINISTRATOR. 

The
Administrator will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and apply its
provisions in accordance with its terms. The Administrator may further
establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as such person may deem
necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. References to
determinations or other actions by the Administrator, herein, shall mean actions
authorized by such person or his respective successors or duly authorized
delegates, in each case in the discretion of such person. All decisions by the
Administrator shall be final and binding. 

3.2      CLAIMS
PROCEDURE. 

If a
request for benefits by a Participant or beneficiary is wholly or partially
denied, the Administrator will provide such claimant written notice setting
forth the denial. A review procedure is available upon written request by the
claimant to the Administrator within 90 days after the date of the
Administrator's written notice of the denial of the claim, and includes the
right to examine pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing
to the Administrator. The decision on review will be made within 90 days after
receipt of the request for review, unless circumstances warrant an extension of
time not to exceed an additional 90 days, and shall be in writing. If a decision
on review is not made within such period, the Participant's claims shall be
deemed denied. 

3.3      DECISIONS
BINDING. 

The
Administrator shall have the exclusive discretion to construe and interpret the
Plan and make all determinations hereunder. All determinations and decisions of
the Administrator as to any disputed question arising under the Plan, including
questions of construction and interpretation, shall be final, conclusive and
binding on all parties and shall be subject to the fullest discretion afforded
by law. 

ARTICLE 4
- - CONTRIBUTIONS 

4.1      EMPLOYEE
ELECTION TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS. 

(a) 

Each
      year, an Eligible Employee may make an election to make Participant
      Contributions with respect to Base Salary, Bonus Awards, Sales Incentives,
      or any other award eligible under this Plan, paid during the immediately
      following calendar year. The enrollment period for making such elections
      shall be established by the Administrator. Any such election is
      irrevocable. 

(b) 

An
      Eligible Employee may elect to contribute from 6% to 30%  (in
      whole percentage increments) of Base Salary, Bonus Awards, or eligible
      Sales Incentives, as the same may change from time to time, and such
      Participant Contributions shall be credited to his/her Contribution
      Account. 

(c) 

An
      Eligible Employee who is an Executive may elect to contribute up to an
      additional 20% (in whole percentage increments) of Base Salary and/or up
      to an additional 45% of Bonus Awards, as the same may change from time to
      time, and such Participant Contributions shall be credited to his/her
      Contribution Account. 

(d) 

An
      Eligible Employee who is an Executive may elect to contribute up to 75%
      (in whole percentage increments) of any Long-Term Incentive Award paid by
      Cingular Wireless, as the same may change from time to time, and such
      Participant Contributions shall be credited to his/her Contribution
      Account. 

(e) 

The
      Administrator may refuse or terminate any election by an Eligible Employee
      to make Participant Contributions at any time; provided, however, only the
      Board/Committee may take such action with respect to persons who are
      "executive officers" of CWLLC. Page 9 of
9 

4.2      DURATION
AND CREDITING OF PARTICIPANT CONTRIBUTIONS. 

(a) 

Participant
      Contributions (as well as any corresponding Matching Contributions) shall
      be made solely pursuant to a proper election and only during the
      Participant's lifetime and while the Participant remains an Eligible
      Employee (if the Participant ceases to be an Eligible Employee, his or her
      election to make Employee Contributions shall be cancelled); provided,
      however, Termination of Employment of an Eligible Employee shall not
      constitute loss of eligibility solely with respect to contribution of Base
      Salary, Bonus Awards, or Sales Incentives earned prior to termination but
      paid within 60 days thereafter or with respect to a Bonus or Long-Term
      Incentive Award paid after Retirement (and such person shall be deemed an
      Eligible Employee for such
contributions). 

(b) 

Participant
      Contributions shall be credited to a Contribution Account when the
      compensation would have otherwise actually been paid were it not for an
      election under this Plan. A contribution from any eligible payment that is
      delayed for any reason shall be credited when the delayed payment is
      made. 

4.3      CREDITING
OF INTEREST. 

Interest
is to be credited to the Participant's Contribution Account pursuant to the
provisions of this Section 4.3 and the procedures adopted by the Administrator
for crediting interest. The annual interest rate for each calendar year shall be
a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Vice President and Treasurer
with the concurrence of the Chief Financial Officer. However, in no event will
the interest rate for any calendar year be less than the Moody's Corporate Bond
Yield Average as published by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. (or any successor
thereto) for the month ending two months prior to the month in which Eligible
Employees make their annual deferral elections under the Plan. 

4.4      MATCHING
CONTRIBUTIONS. 

When an
Eligible Employee makes a Participant Contribution, his/her Contribution Account
shall be credited with an amount found by multiplying the matching contribution
rate provided in the Cingular Wireless 401(k) plan, including any special
transition rates, by: 

(a) 

6%
      (or such other percentage as approved by the Committee) of the Participant
      Contributions; plus, 

(b) 

6%
      of any eligible compensation, excluding the Participant Contribution, that
      is in excess of the Code Section 401(a)(17)
  limits. 

(c) 

6%
      of any amount refunded to a participant from the Cingular Wireless 401(k)
      Saving Plans as a result of the Code Section 401(k) non-discrimination
      testing or other amounts determined within the discretion of the
      Administrator. 

Compensation
paid in the form of a Long Term Incentive Award is not eligible for Matching
Contributions. 

ARTICLE 5
- - OTHER COMPENSATION AWARDS 

5.1      OTHER
COMPENSATION AWARDS. 

(a) 

Any
      Eligible Employee who (i) would receive from an Employer
      a  distribution of cash pursuant to any plan or award
      specifically  permitted to be contributed to this Plan by the
      Administrator and (ii)  has not recognized any part of such
      distribution as income for Federal  income taxation purposes,
      may make an election, during an enrollment  period as determined
      by the Administrator, to convert such distribution  into a
      contribution under this Plan, provided such person remains
      an  Eligible Employee at the time of such contribution.
      Distribution of  such contributions shall be governed solely by
      the provisions of this  Plan. The Administrator may refuse or
      terminate any election under this  Section 5.1 at any time;
      provided, however, only the Board/Committee  may take such
      action with respect to persons who are "executive  officers" of
      CWLLC. 

(b) 

In
      no event shall a Contribution pursuant to this Section 5.1 result in the
      crediting of Matching
Contributions. 

ARTICLE 6
- - DISTRIBUTIONS 

6.1     EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTIONS FROM
PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS AT TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. 

Eligible
Employees shall designate the time for a distribution from their Participant
Accounts during the enrollment period. Eligible Employees may elect to receive a
distribution according to the following guidelines: 

Participants
may elect to receive a distribution from their account at Termination of
Employment. Participants, who are eligible for Retirement at the time of their
Termination of Employment, may elect to receive their distributions in 1 to 10
payments beginning in March of the year following termination of
Employment. 

Participants,
who are not eligible for Retirement at the time of Termination of Employment,
may elect to receive their distributions in 1 to 3 payments beginning in March
of the year following Termination of Employment. 

If
Participants do not have a valid election on file, distributions will be made in
10 payments, for Participants who are eligible for Retirement at the time of
Termination of Employment, and 3 payments, for Participants who are not eligible
for Retirement at the time of separation. 

6.2 

EMPLOYEE
      ELECTIONS TO RECEIVE DISTRIBUTIONS FROM PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS PRIOR TO
      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. 

In lieu
of an election to receive a distribution at Termination of Employment, Eligible
Employees may elect to receive a distribution from their Participant Accounts
prior to Termination of Employment. Such election must be made during the
enrollment period. Eligible Employees may elect to receive an "in-service"
distribution according to the following guidelines: 

Participants
may elect to receive an in-service distribution in any year of an 8 year period
beginning in the third year following the year of the deferrals. For example,
for deferrals in 2002, in-service distributions can be elected in 2005 through
2012. 

All
in-service distributions will be paid in March of the year of the requested
distribution. The total value, consisting of Participant and Company Match
Contributions plus accrued interest as of March 1 (the Valuation Date) related
to the specific deferral, will be paid in a single payment. 

Notwithstanding
any of the provisions of this paragraph 6.2, if a Participant terminates
employment prior to a scheduled in-service distribution, value of the Employee's
Contribution Account will be distributed in accordance with the guidelines for a
distribution at Termination of Employment. 

6.3       DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS. 

(a) 

All
      distributions will be based on the value of the Employee's Contribution
      Account as of March 1 (or such other date as determined by the
      Administrator) of the year of the distribution. Generally, Participants
      should receive distribution payments within 10
  workdays. 

(b) 

Multi-year
      distributions will be based on the Value of the Employee's Contribution
      Account as of March 1 (or such other date as determined by the
      Administrator). Distributions are to be equal to the Participant's
      Contribution Account balance divided by the number of remaining
      distributions. 

(c) 

Notwithstanding
      the provisions of (a) or (b) above or any provision in the Plan, if the
      Value of the Employee's Contribution Account is (1) less than $50,000 as
      of March 1 of the year of the initial distribution payment, the number of
      multi-year payments can not exceed three, or (2) less than $10,000 of the
      year of the initial distribution, the total Contribution Account balance
      will be paid in a single payment. 

6.4      REVOKED
OR AMENDED ELECTIONS. 

A
Participant, who has previously elected to receive a distribution prior to
Termination of Employment, may revoke such election during an enrollment period
as specified by the Administrator. Generally, the enrollment period for revoking
such elections will be prior to the year preceding the year of the
distribution.    If an
election to receive a distribution prior to Termination of Employment is
revoked, the value of the distribution will remain in the Employee's
Contribution Account and will be distributed at Termination of Employment and no
further changes may be elected at any time. 

A
Participant who has elected to receive a distribution at Termination of
Employment, may amend that election to change the number of distribution
payments to be received following a Termination of Employment. To be valid, a
revised election must be submitted during the enrollment period prior to the
year preceding the year of the distribution. 

In the
event the Participant incurs a Termination of Employment for reasons other than
Retirement, the Administrator may, at its sole discretion, accelerate the
distribution of all or part of the Participant's Account to the date of the
Administrator's choosing, without notice to, or the consent of, the
Participant. 

6.5      DESIGNATION
OF BENEFICIARY; DISTRIBUTIONS AT DEATH. 

Each
Participant may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named
contingently or successively) who, upon the Participant's death, will receive
the amounts that otherwise would have been paid to the Participant under the
Plan. All designations shall be signed by the Participant, and shall be in such
form as prescribed by the Administrator. Each designation shall be effective as
of the date received from the Participant. 

Participants
may change their designations of beneficiary on a form prescribed by the
Administrator. The payment of amounts deferred under the Plan shall be in
accordance with the last unrevoked written designation of beneficiary that has
been signed by the Participant and delivered by the Participant to the
Administrator or a designated third party. 

In the
event that all the beneficiaries named by a Participant pursuant to this Section
6.5 predecease the Participant, the deferred amounts that would have been paid
to the Participant or the Participant's beneficiaries shall be paid to the
Participant's estate. 

In the
event a Participant does not designate a beneficiary, or for any reason such
designation is ineffective, in whole or in part, the amounts that otherwise
would have been paid to the Participant or the Participant's beneficiaries under
the Plan shall be paid to the Participant's estate. 

In the
event of death, the Participant's Contribution Account will be paid in 1 to 10
payments, as specified by the Participant on the Beneficiary Designation Form,
subject to the rules contained in Section 6.3(c). If no Beneficiary Designation
Form is on file, payments will be made in a single lump sum
payment. 

6.6      INELIGIBLE
PARTICIPANT. 

Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if the Administrator or CWLLC
receives an opinion from counsel selected by CWLLC, or a final determination is
made by a Federal, state or local government or agency, acting within its scope
of authority, to the effect that an individual is not, or was not at the time of
his or her making Participant contributions to this Plan, to be a "management or
highly compensated employee" within the meaning of ERISA, then such person will
not be eligible to participate in this Plan and shall receive an immediate
distribution of contributions and interest thereon corresponding to the vested
portion of his or her account. Upon such distribution, no other distribution
shall thereafter be payable under this Plan either to the individual or any
beneficiary of the individual. 

6.7      DISTRIBUTION
PROCESS. 

As to a
Participant's deferrals of cash compensation, the payment of which would have
been deductible by an Employer under Section 162(m) of the Code, regardless of
the size of the cash compensation, shall be deemed to be distributed
first. 

ARTICLE 7
- - DISCONTINUATION, TERMINATION, AMENDMENT. 

CWLLC
hereby reserves the right to amend, modify or terminate the Plan at any time by
action of the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Senior Vice
President of Human Resources may make ministerial amendments to the plan to
conform the plan to the intent of the Administrator. 

The Plan
is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred
compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly compensated"
within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA, and therefore be
exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA. Accordingly,
the Board may terminate the Plan and commence termination payout for all or
certain Participants, or remove certain employees as Participants, if it is
determined by the United States Department of Labor or a court of competent
jurisdiction that the Plan constitutes an employee pension benefit plan within
the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA which is not so exempt. If payout is
commenced pursuant to the operation of this Article 7, the payment of such
amounts shall be made in a lump sum regardless of the manner selected by each
Participant under Article 6 herein as applicable. 

ARTICLE 8
- - MISCELLANEOUS 

8.1      TAX
WITHHOLDING. 

Upon
distribution the Administrator shall withhold amounts required to satisfy the
Federal, state, and local taxes required by law to be withheld as a result of
such distribution. 

8.2      ELECTIONS
AND NOTICES. 

Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of
every kind shall be made on forms prepared by the Administrator or made in such
other manner as permitted or required by the Administrator, including through
electronic means, over the Internet or otherwise. An election shall be deemed
made when received by the Administrator, which may waive any defects in form.
Unless made irrevocable by the electing person, each election with regard to
making Participant contributions or distributions shall become irrevocable at
the close of business on the last day to make such election. The Administrator
may limit the time an election may be made in advance of any
deadline. 

Any
notice or filing required or permitted to be given to CWLLC under the Plan shall
be delivered to the principal office of CWLLC, directed to the attention of the
Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources of CWLLC or his or her
successor. Such notice shall be deemed given on the date of
delivery. 

Notice to
the Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the
Participant's work or home address as shown on the records of CWLLC or, at the
option of the Administrator, to the Participant's e-mail address as shown on the
records of CWLLC. It is the Participant's responsibility to ensure that the
Participant's addresses are kept up to date on the records of CWLLC. In the case
of notices affecting multiple Participants, the notices may be given by general
distribution at the Participants' work locations. 

8.3      RIGHTS
OF PARTICIPANTS; UNSECURED GENERAL CREDITOR. 

The Plan
shall create a contractual obligation on the part of CWLLC to make payments from
the Participant's accounts when due. Payment of account balances shall be made
out of the general funds of the CWLLC. 

Participants
and their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, and assigns shall have no legal or
equitable rights, interest, or claims in any property or assets of any Employer.
No assets of any Employer shall be held under any trust for the benefit of
Participants, their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or assigns, or held in any
way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations of any Employer
under this Plan. Any and all of each Employer's assets shall be, and remain, the
general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of such Employer. The only obligation of
an Employer under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured
promise of CWLLC to distribute amounts deferred and interest theron under the
Plan. 

CWLLC may
establish one or more trusts, with such trustee(s) as the Administrator may
approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of deferred amounts. Any
such trust created by the CWLLC will conform to the terms of the model trust
approved by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to Revenue Procedure 92-64, or
any amendment thereof or successor to the claims of the CWLLC's general
creditors. To the extent any deferred amounts under the Plan are actually paid
from any trust, the CWLLC shall have no further obligation with respect thereto,
but to the extent not so paid, such deferred amounts shall remain the obligation
of, and shall be paid by, CWLLC. 

8.4      OFFSET. 

The
Administrator may offset against the Contribution Account otherwise
distributable to a Participant, any amounts due an Employer by a Participant,
including but not limited to overpayments under any compensation or benefit
plans. 

8.5      NON-ASSIGNABILITY. 

Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign,
transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt of such amounts under the
Plan, if any, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are,
expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable. No part of the
Participant's Contribution Account, prior to actual distribution, be subject to
seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or
separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be
transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other
person's bankruptcy or insolvency. 

8.6      EMPLOYMENT
NOT GUARANTEED. 

Nothing
contained in this Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a
contract of employment or as giving any employee any right to be retained in the
employ of an Employer. 

8.7      ERRORS. 

At any
time the Administrator may correct any error made under the Plan without
prejudice to CWLLC, Cingular Wireless or any Affiliates. Such corrections may
include, among other things, refunding contributions to a Participant with
respect to any period he or she made Participant Contributions while not an
Eligible Employee, or canceling the enrollment of a non-Eligible
Employee. 

8.8      CAPTIONS. 

The
captions of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of this Plan are for
convenience only and shall not control nor affect the meaning or construction of
any of its provisions. 

8.9      GOVERNING
LAW. 

To the
extent not preempted by ERISA, this Plan shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Georgia, excluding any
conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer
constructive or interpretation of this Plan to provisions of the substantive law
of any jurisdiction other than the State of Georgia. Any action seeking to
enforce the rights of an employee, former employee or person who holds such
rights through, from or on behalf of such employee or former employee under this
Plan may be brought only in a Federal or state court located in Fulton County,
Georgia. 

8.10     VALIDITY. 

In the
event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the
same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this Plan. 

8.11     SUCCESSORS
AND ASSIGNS. 

This Plan
shall be binding upon CWLLC and Affiliates that have adopted the Plan, and their
successors and assigns. 

</EX-10.YY>

<EX-10.ZZ>
 22
 ex10zz.htm
 BELLSOUTH CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN

ex10zz.htm 

BELLSOUTH
      CORPORATION  

SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE
      RETIREMENT PLAN  

BELLSOUTH
      CORPORATION  

SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE
      RETIREMENT PLAN  

ARTICLE
I.   STATEMENT OF PURPOSE 

The
purpose of the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan is
to provide supplemental pension benefits to Executives and certain other
employees of BellSouth Corporation and certain subsidiaries of BellSouth
Corporation, hereinafter referred to as Participants, who retire or terminate
from service. The Plan was originally effective as of January 1, 1984 and was
subsequently amended from time to time. The Plan is now hereby amended and
restated, effective as of January 1, 2005, and as so amended and restated is
intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), with respect to all benefits accrued and
vested on or after January 1, 2005. Further, with respect to all benefits of
Participants employed on or after January 1, 2007, the Plan is intended to fully
comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A. 

ARTICLE
      II. DEFINITIONS 

1.             The term "   ADEA   " shall mean the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act of 1967, as amended from time to time.  

2.             The term "   Affiliate   " shall mean any corporation, other
than BellSouth Corporation (or a Participating Company), which is a member of
the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Code Section
414(b)) as BellSouth Corporation and any trade or business (whether or not
incorporated) which is under common control with BellSouth Corporation within
the meaning of Code Section 414(c).  

3.             The term "   Annual Bonus
Award   " shall mean
the bonus amount paid annually to a Participant that is included in the
calculation of pension benefits under the Pension Plan.  

4             The terms "   BellSouth
Corporation   " and
"   Company   " shall mean BellSouth Corporation, a
Georgia corporation, or its successors.  

5.             The terms "   Chairman of the
Board   ",
"   President   " and "   Board of
Directors   " or
"   Board   " shall mean the Chairman of the Board
of Directors, President and Board of Directors, respectively, of the
Company.  

6.             The term     Claim Review
Committee     shall
mean the Employees  Benefit Claim Review Committee appointed by the Committee to
be the claims fiduciary for any claims brought under the Pension
Plan.  

7.             The term "   Code   " shall mean the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended from time to time.  

8.             The term "   Committee   " shall mean the Employee Benefit
Committee appointed by the Company to administer the Pension
Plan.  

9.              The term "   Disabled   " or     Disability     means the
following:  

(a)             the inability of the Participant to
engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically
determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in
death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12
months; OR  

(b)             the Participant is, by reason of any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to
result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less
than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less
than 3 months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the
Employer;  

10.             The term "   Executive   " shall mean an employee on the active
payroll of any Participating Company who holds a position that the Board of
Directors has designated to be within the Company s executive compensation
group.  

11.             The term     Executive Severance
Agreement     means a
BellSouth executive change in control agreement entered into by and between an
executive who is a Participant in this Plan and BellSouth, as amended and/or
superseded from time to time, providing certain benefits in the event of a
change in corporate control of BellSouth Corporation.  

12.             The term "   Former
Affiliate   " shall
have the same meaning as is attributed to such term under the Pension
Plan.  

13.             The term "   Included
Earnings   " shall
have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 4(a)(ii) of Article IV of this
Plan.  

14.             The term "   Interchange
Company   " shall have
the same meaning as is attributed to such term under the Pension
Plan.  

15.             The term "   Mandatory Retirement
Age   " shall have the
same meaning as is attributed to such term under the Pension
Plan.  

16.             The term     Merger     shall mean the planned merger,
pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of March 4, 2006 (the
 Merger Agreement ), by and among BellSouth, AT T Inc. ( AT T ), and ABC
Consolidation Corp., a Georgia corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of
AT T ( Merger Sub ), pursuant to which, at the  Effective Time  (as defined
in the Merger Agreement), BellSouth will be merged with and into the Merger
Sub.  

17.             The term     Merger Severance
Plan     means a
severance plan (or plans) adopted under the terms of the Company Disclosure
Letter to the Merger Agreement (as defined in Section 16 of this Article
II).  

18.             The term "   Net Credited
Service   ", except as
expressly limited or otherwise provided in this Plan or under an individual
Participant s employment related agreement with the Company, shall have the same
meaning as is attributed to such term under the Pension Plan and shall be
interpreted in the same manner as that term is interpreted for purposes of the
Pension Plan.  

19.             The term "   Participants   " shall mean all Executives as defined
herein, as well as all other management employees (   i.e.,    non-collectively bargained employees)
at pay grade E01 (or equivalent) and above and any other employees designated by
the Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth Corporation or his or her delegated
representative.  

20.             The term "   Participating
Company   " shall mean
BellSouth Corporation, and each subsidiary of BellSouth Corporation which shall
have determined, with the concurrence of the senior human resources officer of
BellSouth Corporation, to participate in the Plan.  

21.             The term "   Pension Act 
   shall mean the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) as it may be amended
from time to time.  

22.             The term "   Pension Commencement
Date   " shall have
the same meaning as is attributed to such term under the Pension Plan.

23.             The term "   Pension
Plan   " shall mean
the BellSouth Personal Retirement Account Pension Plan as in effect on the date
of the Merger.  

24.             The term "   Plan   " shall mean this BellSouth Corporation
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.  

25.             The term "   Post-04
Benefit     shall mean
the Participant s Plan benefit accrued on or after January 1, 2005 determined in
accordance with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  

26.             The term "   Pre-05
Benefit     shall mean
the Participant s Plan benefit accrued and vested as of December 31, 2004
determined in accordance with the provisions of Code Section
409A.  

27.             The term     Rabbi Trust
Agreement     shall
mean each and all of the following: (i) BellSouth Corporation Trust Under
Executive Benefit Plan(s); (ii) BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Trust Under
Executive Benefit Plan(s); (iii) BellSouth Enterprises, Inc. Trust Under
Executive Benefit Plan(s); (iv) BellSouth Corporation Trust Under Executive
Benefit Plan(s) for Mobile Systems Executives; (v) BellSouth Corporation Trust
Under Executive Benefit Plan(s) for Advertising and Publishing Executives; (vi)
BellSouth Corporation Trust Under Executive Benefit Plan(s) for Certain
BellSouth Companies; in each case, as amended from time to
time.  

28.             The term "   Standard Annual
Bonus   " shall mean
an amount determined by applying a target percentage of a Participant s base pay
rate as determined by the annual compensation plan and the Participant s current
job or pay grade.  

29.           The
term "Vesting Service Credit", except as expressly limited or otherwise provided
in this Plan or under an individual Participant s employment related agreement
with the Company, shall have the same meaning as is attributed to such term
under the Pension Plan and shall be interpreted in the same manner as that term
is interpreted for purposes of the Pension Plan. 

30.             The use in this Plan of personal
pronouns of the masculine gender is intended to include both the masculine and
feminine genders.  

ARTICLE
      III. ADMINISTRATION 

1.            The Company shall be the Plan
Administrator and the Plan Sponsor of the Plan as those terms are defined in the
Pension Act. The Company may allocate all or any part of its responsibilities
for the operation and administration of the Plan, except to the extent expressly
prohibited by the Plan's terms. The Company may designate in writing other
persons to carry out its responsibilities under the Plan, and may employ persons
to advise it with regard to such responsibilities. The Company, acting through
the Committee, the Claim Review Committee or any other person designated by the
Company, as applicable, shall have the exclusive responsibility and complete
discretionary authority to interpret the terms of the Plan (including the power
to construe ambiguous or uncertain terms), to control the operation and
administration of the Plan and to resolve all questions in connection therewith,
with all powers necessary to enable it to properly carry out such
responsibilities, including without limitation the powers and responsibilities
set forth in this Section 3, and its determinations shall be final, conclusive
and binding on all persons.  

2.            The Plan Administrator shall have the
power to determine status, coverage, eligibility for and the amount of benefits
under the Plan and all questions arising in connection therewith, with respect
to employees of each Participating Company, respectively, and shall have the
power to authorize disbursements according to this Plan.  

3.            The review and final determination of
claims and appeals for Participants and beneficiaries under the Plan shall be
determined by, and in the complete discretion of, the Plan Administrator acting
through the Claim Review Committee and in accordance with the claims and appeals
procedures set forth in the summary plan description for the Pension Plan and
shall be administered and interpreted in accordance with the Pension Act and
procedures in effect under the Pension Plan. All determinations of the Plan
Administrator shall be final and binding and not subject to further
administrative review.  

4.            The expenses of administering the Plan
shall be borne by the Company and/or the applicable Participating
Company.  

5.            The Company, the Committee and the
Claim Review Committee, and each other Plan Administrator described herein, are
each a named fiduciary as that term is used in the Pension Act with respect to
the particular duties and responsibilities herein provided to be allocated to
each of them.  

6.            Any person or group of persons may
serve in more than one fiduciary capacity with respect to the
Plan.  

7.            Notwithstanding the preceding,
effective as of the date of the Merger, responsibility for administration of the
Plan shall be determined under the terms of the Rabbi Trust Agreements. As
provided in the Rabbi Trust Agreements, claims for benefits, appeals of benefit
denials and Plan interpretations shall be made by a  Trust Contractor  or
 Independent Fiduciary  (as such terms are defined in the Rabbi Trust
Agreements), as the case may be. At any time during which a Trust Contractor or
Independent Fiduciary shall, under the terms of the Rabbi Trust Agreements, have
such Plan administrative responsibilities, the term  Plan Administrator  as used
in this Plan shall refer to such Trust Contractor or Independent
Fiduciary.  

ARTICLE
      IV. BENEFITS 

1.           Participation   

All
persons included in the definition of the term "Participants" are deemed
participants in this Plan. In addition, each individual who has participated in
this Plan but who has ceased to be included in the definition of "Participants",
whether due to demotion, termination or otherwise, shall continue to be a
Participant in this Plan, except for purposes of accruing additional benefits
under Section 4 of this Article IV, and shall be entitled to a benefit under
this Plan if, at the time such individual ceased to be included in the
definition of "Participants", he or she had satisfied the service requirements
for a deferred vested pension under the Pension Plan. Each such individual shall
receive a benefit under the terms of the Plan as in effect immediately prior to
the effective date of such demotion, termination or other event, the amount of
such benefit to be calculated as if the individual retired (or otherwise
terminated employment) on such date, it being the Company's intent that any such
demotion, termination or other event removing individuals from the definition of
"Participants" shall not adversely affect entitlement to such
benefits. 

2.           Mandatory Retirement
Age   

Each
Participant, whether or not eligible for benefits under this Plan, shall cease
to be eligible for continued employment no later than the last day of the month
in which such Participant attains the Mandatory Retirement Age. 

3.           Eligibility   

(a)              Service
Benefit   

An
individual who is both a Participant in this Plan and who is eligible for a
service pension pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan at the time of
employment termination or whose age and Net Credited Service recognized under
this Plan would satisfy the eligibility requirements of the Pension Plan for a
service pension is eligible for a service benefit pursuant to this Plan.
Additionally, each Participant who has attained age 62 or older and whose Net
Credited Service is ten years or more at the time of employment termination is
eligible for a service benefit under this Plan. Each Participant whose
employment terminates pursuant to and under the terms of the Merger Severance
Plan may also be eligible for a service benefit under this Plan, if at the time
of employment termination the Participant's age and Net Credited Service meets
the requirements established under such severance program to be deemed service
pension eligible for purposes of this Plan. Each Participant whose employment
terminates pursuant to and under the terms of an Executive Severance Agreement
shall be deemed to be eligible for a service pension for purposes of this
Plan. 

(b)              Deferred
Benefit   

(i)             Any individual not described in Section
3(a) of this Article IV who is a Participant in this Plan at the time of
voluntary employment termination is eligible for a deferred vested pension
pursuant to this Plan, provided he is eligible for a deferred vested pension
pursuant to the Pension Plan.  

(ii)             In the event that a Participant s
employment is terminated involuntarily prior to his or her becoming eligible for
a deferred benefit under this Plan, and the termination is not for cause, such
Participant shall nevertheless be entitled to a deferred benefit hereunder,
based upon the Participant s Vesting Service Credit at his or her date of
termination.  

(c)              Disability
Pension   

An
individual who while a Participant in this Plan has become eligible for a
disability pension pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan and who is also
determined to be Disabled shall be eligible for a disability pension hereunder,
calculated as follows: the amount is determined in accordance with Section 4 of
this Article IV calculated to one year after date of Disability (pro-rata if
less than 20 years of service) with no reduction factor but offset by the actual
service or deferred benefit determined under Section 4 of this Article IV
applying all applicable early retirement reduction factors (determined assuming
that the service or deferred benefit is payable as an annuity). Should the
disability pension be discontinued pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan,
the disability pension hereunder shall be discontinued as well. 

4.           Benefit
Amounts   

(a)              Computation of
Benefit   

(i)              (A)               Benefit
Formula   

The
aggregate annualized benefit of each Participant payable as provided in the Plan
shall be determined by adding the sum of two percent (2%) of Included Earnings
for each year of the Participant's Vesting Service Credit for the first twenty
years, plus one and one-half percent (1.5%) of Included Earnings for each year
of the Participant's Vesting Service Credit for the next ten years, plus one
percent (1%) of Included Earnings for each year of the Participant's Vesting
Service Credit for each additional year up to the month in which the Participant
retires  less 
(1) 100% of the retirement benefit (unreduced for survivor annuity) payable from
the Pension Plan and (2) 100% of the Primary Social Security benefit payable at
age 65.          

(B)               Special
Rules   

(1)  

With respect to service benefits,
      the benefit reduction to be applied pursuant to Section 4(a)(i)(A)(1)
      above for the benefit payable from the Pension Plan shall be the amount of
      such benefit that would be payable on the date that benefits are eligible
      to be paid (or become payable) under this Plan (regardless of the
      Participant s actual pension commencement date under the Pension Plan) and
      determined assuming that the Participant elected a single life annuity
      (regardless of the actual form of benefit elected under the Pension
      Plan).  

(2)             With respect to deferred vested
benefits, the benefit reduction to be applied pursuant to Section 4(a)(i)(A)(1)
above for the benefit payable from the Pension Plan shall be the amount of such
benefit that would be payable on the Participant s 65   th    birthday (regardless of the
Participant s actual pension commencement date under the Pension Plan) and
determined assuming that the Participant elected a single life annuity
(regardless of the actual form of benefit elected under the Pension
Plan).  

(3)             In the case of any Executive (i) who
has attained the age of sixty-two (62) or more or who is deceased, (ii) who was
previously employed by a Former Affiliate, (iii) who serves or has served as an
officer (as such term is used in the employment practices and policies of the
relevant company) of BellSouth Corporation or an Affiliate, and (iv) whose
service with a Former Affiliate is disregarded in determining the Executive's
Vesting Service  Credit under the Pension Plan, for purposes of this Plan,
the Executive s Vesting Service Credit and Net Credited Service shall be
increased by  

(x) the
Executive's Vesting Service Credit and Net Credited Service with the Former
Affiliate(s) (determined under the rules of the Pension Plan as if the Executive
had been employed by BellSouth Corporation during such period and had no other
service covered under the Pension Plan),  multiplied 
by 

(y) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of whole years (not to exceed ten
(10)) of such Executive's Net Credited Service as an officer of BellSouth
Corporation or an Affiliate and the denominator of which is ten
(10). 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, no Executive's Vesting Service Credit or Net Credited Service,
for purposes of this Plan shall be increased for service with a Former Affiliate
to the extent that any such service would otherwise be considered, directly or
indirectly, in determining such Executive's benefits under this Plan by virtue
of the terms of any other agreement, plan or arrangement.       

(4)             In the case of any Participant whose
Vesting Service Credit or Net Credited Service includes a period of service with
an employer with respect to which the Participant is entitled to any retirement
benefit payable from defined benefit pension plan(s ) (including qualified plans
and nonqualified plans such as excess benefit and supplemental executive
retirement plans), including any Executive whose Vesting Service Credit and Net
Credited Service under this Plan is increased pursuant to Section 4(a)(i)(B)(3)
preceding, the benefit reduction described in Section 4(a)(i)(A)(1) above for
the retirement benefit payable from the Pension Plan shall include any such
retirement benefit payable by such employer. The determination of the benefit
reduction for any such benefit shall be made using approaches which approximate
as nearly as practicable the approaches used in making such determinations with
respect to benefits payable under the Pension Plan, as described above in this
Section 4(a)(i). In the case of any Executive whose Vesting Service Credit and
Net Credited Service under this Plan is increased pursuant to paragraph (B)(3)
of this Section 4(a)(i), the benefit payable by such employer shall first be
multiplied by the fraction described in that paragraph and the product thereof
shall be the amount of the benefit reduction.  

(5)             A Participant s service or deferred
benefit (the value of which is expressed as an annuity) at the time of
termination of employment shall not be less than the service or deferred benefit
that would have been payable to the Participant if the Participant had
terminated employment on any prior December 31 (using pay, service, offsets and
all factors applicable on the previous dates and assuming an immediate benefit
commencement).  

(6)             In the case of each Participant who
terminates employment pursuant to the terms of the Merger Severance Plan, the
service benefit or deferred vested benefit calculated hereunder shall be
calculated by adding additional months of Vesting Service Credit and an equal
amount of months of age with the amount of such months equaling (i) 24,
minus (ii) the number of months that have elapsed since the closing of the
Merger (but not below zero).  

(ii)               Included
Earnings   

Included
Earnings shall equal the 12 month average of the sum of (1) the last sixty (60)
months of base pay, plus (2) the Annual Bonus Awards payable during or after
that sixty (60) month period. The amounts of base pay and other payments used to
determine Included Earnings as described above include all amounts during the
specified period including those amounts previously deferred pursuant to other
plans. If a Participant terminates employment eligible for a benefit under this
Plan and thereafter receives compensation of the types described in clause (ii)
of this Section 4(a), the additional Included Earnings shall be deemed to have
been paid as of the date the Participant terminated employment, and the amount
of benefit payable under this Plan shall be corrected accordingly.             

(b)              Minimum
Benefit   

In no
event shall a Participant, whose Vesting Service Credit has been five years or
more, who terminates employment on or after his or her sixty-second birthday, or
who is retired on a service or disability pension under the Pension Plan or is
otherwise eligible for a service pension benefit hereunder, receive a total
annual retirement benefit (including any benefit under the Pension Plan) from
the Company of less than 15% of the employee's annual base salary plus Standard
Annual Bonus in effect on the employee's last day on the active
payroll. 

(c)              Early Retirement
Discount   

(i)  

The service benefit amount,
      determined in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for each
      Participant who is granted a service benefit, shall be reduced (before the
      offset for benefits under the Pension Plan) by one-half percent (0.5%) for
      each calendar month or part thereof by which the commencement of benefits
      under this Plan precedes the Participant s 62nd birthday, except that each
      employee retired with thirty (30) or more years of service (either Net
      Credited Service or Vesting Service Credit) shall receive a service
      benefit reduced by one-quarter percent (0.25%) for each calendar month or
      part thereof by which the commencement of benefits under this Plan
      precedes the Participant s 62nd birthday. With respect to Participants who
      terminate employment and receive benefits under the Merger Severance Plan,
      the preceding sentence shall be applied by substituting  twenty-eight (28)
      or more  for the words  thirty (30) or more.  Further, with respect to a
      Participant who retires during 2006, in no event shall the amount by which
      such Participant s benefit is reduced pursuant to this provision be
      greater than the amount by which such benefit would have been reduced
      pursuant to this provision had the Participant retired on December 31,
      2005.       

(ii)  

The deferred vested benefit
      amount, determined in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4,
      for each Participant who is granted a deferred vested benefit, shall be
      reduced (after the offset for benefits under the Pension Plan) by an
      actuarially equivalent amount, using mortality rates and other assumptions
      then in effect under the Pension Plan, for each calendar month or part
      thereof by which the commencement of benefits under this Plan precedes the
      Participant s 65th birthday.  

(d)            Survivor/Death Benefits for
Participant Deaths occurring prior to January 1, 2007.  

(i)                
   Benefit Payable Before
Benefit Commencement   .  

If a
Participant who has not made a valid lump sum election with respect to his or
her Pre-2005 Benefit dies prior to termination of employment (or commencement of
benefits for Participant s with a deferred benefit) and leaves a surviving
spouse at the time of his death, a pre-retirement survivor benefit is payable to
the surviving spouse as an immediate life annuity equal to 100% of the service
benefit or deferred benefit that the Participant would have received with
respect to his or her Pre-2005 Benefit had he survived and terminated employment
on the date of his death and commenced benefit payments. In addition, with
respect to the Participant s Post-2004 Benefit, such benefit shall be paid to
the surviving spouse as soon as administratively feasible following the
Participant s death in a single sum payment calculated in accordance with
Section 5 of this Article IV. If such Participant does not have a surviving
spouse at the time of his death, the entire survivor benefit described in this
paragraph shall be paid to the Participant s estate as soon as administratively
feasible following the Participant s death (even if the Participant was a Band
BB officer or above) in the form of a single sum payment calculated in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5 of this Article IV. 

(ii)                
   Benefit Payable After
Benefit Commencement.   

If the
Participant was receiving benefits in the form of an annuity with respect to his
Pre-2005 Benefit (or was eligible to receive benefits in the form of an annuity
because of termination of employment), and leaves a surviving spouse at the time
of his/her death, then such surviving spouse shall automatically receive a
survivor annuity for life equal to 50% of the net pension benefit that the
Participant was receiving (or eligible to receive) just prior to his death. If
the Participant was eligible to receive payment of his Post-2004 Benefit but had
not yet received such payment, then his Post-2004 Benefit shall be paid in the
form of a single lump sum payment calculated in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5 of this Article IV. 

(iii)            
    Lump Sum
Election   .  

In the
event of the death of a Participant who has made a valid lump sum election under
the Plan with respect to his or her Pre-2005 Benefit, his surviving spouse (or
his estate if there is no surviving spouse) shall be entitled to receive 100% of
the lump sum payment that would have been payable to the Participant had he
survived and terminated employment on the date of his death (including the lump
sum payment of the Participant s Post-2004 Benefit), and such lump sum shall be
payable as soon as administratively feasible following the Participant s death
(even if the Participant was an Executive designated as a Band BB officer or
above). 

(iv)         
    Lump Sum
Settlement   .  

If a
Participant has already received a lump sum settlement of his entire benefit
under the Plan, then no further benefits are payable under this subparagraph
(d). 

(e)            Survivor/Death Benefits for
Participant Deaths occurring on or after January 1, 2007.  

(i)              Benefit Payable Before
Benefit Commencement   .  

If a
Participant dies prior to termination of employment and leaves a surviving
spouse at the time of his death, a pre-retirement survivor benefit is payable to
the surviving spouse in the same form as elected by the Participant for payment
of his benefit ( i.e.,  single lump sum,
10 year installments, or single life annuity) in an amount equal to 100% of the
service benefit or deferred benefit that the Participant would have received
with respect to his benefit had he survived and terminated employment on the
date of his death and commenced benefit payments; provided, if the survivor
benefit is payable in a single life annuity, there will be no payment of an
additional survivor annuity upon the surviving spouse s death. If such
Participant does not have a surviving spouse at the time of his death, the
entire survivor benefit described in this paragraph shall be paid to the
Participant s estate as soon as administratively feasible following the
Participant s death (even if the Participant was a  specified employee  as
defined under Code Section 409A) in the form of a single sum payment calculated
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 of this Article IV. 

(ii)              Benefit Payable After
Benefit Commencement.   

(A)  

Life
      Annuity   . If
      the Participant leaves a surviving spouse and was receiving benefits in
      the form of an annuity (or was eligible to receive benefits in the form of
      an annuity because of termination of employment and because the
      Participant had elected an annuity form of payment in accordance with
      Section 5 of this Article IV), then such surviving spouse shall
      automatically receive a survivor annuity for life equal to 50% of the net
      pension benefit that the Participant was receiving (or eligible to
      receive) just prior to his death. If the Participant does not leave a
      surviving spouse and was receiving benefits in the form of an annuity (or
      was eligible to receive benefits in the form of an annuity because of
      termination of employment and because the Participant had elected an
      annuity form of payment in accordance with Section 5 of this Article IV),
      then no further benefits will be payable after the Participant s
      death.  

(B)  

10-Year
      Installments   .
      If the Participant leaves a surviving spouse and was receiving benefits in
      the form of 10-year installments, then the remaining installments shall
      continue to be paid to the surviving spouse. If the Participant was
      receiving benefits in the form of 10-year installments and does not leave
      a surviving spouse, then the remaining installments shall be paid in the
      form of a single lump sum payable to his
  estate.  

(C)  

Lump Sum
      Payment   . If
      the Participant was eligible to receive a single lump sum payment of his
      Plan benefit but dies prior to the payment being made, then the single
      lump sum payment shall be made to his surviving spouse, if applicable, and
      otherwise to his estate.  

(iii)              Lump Sum
Settlement   .  

If a
Participant has already received a lump sum settlement of his entire benefit
under the Plan, then no further benefits are payable under this subparagraph
(e). 

(f)              Special
Increases   

Service
and disability benefit payments, as determined under this Section 4(a) and (b)
of this Article IV, of retired Participants shall be increased by the same
percentage and pursuant to the same terms and conditions as are set forth in the
Pension Plan. 

5.              Form of Benefit Payments

(a)   

Rules Applicable to
      Participants who terminate Employment Prior to January 1,
      2007  

(i)            Annuity Payments.
   With respect to a
Participant who has not made a valid lump sum election in accordance with
subparagraph (ii) hereof, such Participant s Pre-2005 Benefit shall be paid in
monthly disbursements or at such other periods as the Committee may determine in
each case. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at the time of the Participant s
termination of employment, the present value of the benefit of a Participant,
whether payable as a service benefit, a deferred benefit, or a survivor s
benefit, is less than $20,000, such benefit shall be paid in the form of a
single lump sum payment, calculated in accordance with subparagraph (iii)
hereof.  

(ii)            Lump Sum Benefit
Payment.   

(1)  

Pre-2005
      Benefit   . A
      Participant may elect to receive his Pre-2005 Benefit hereunder, whether
      payable as a service benefit, a deferred benefit or a survivor s benefit,
      paid in the form of a single lump sum payment, calculated in accordance
      with the provisions of Paragraph (c) hereof; provided, any such election
      must be made in accordance with procedures established by the Company and
      must be on file with the Company, or its designee, for at least 12
      consecutive calendar months prior to the Participant s termination of
      employment or death in order to be valid and in
    effect.  

(2)  

Post-2004
      Benefit   . All
      Post-2004 Benefits, whether payable as a service benefit or a deferred
      benefit shall be paid in the form of a single lump sum payment, calculated
      in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph (c)
      hereof.  

(b)         Rules Applicable to
Participants who terminate Employment on or after January 1,
2007  

(i)  

Lump Sum Benefit
      Payment.   
      Absent an election to the contrary in accordance with subparagraph (iv)
      hereof, a Participant s entire benefit under the Plan, whether payable as
      a service benefit or a deferred benefit, shall be paid in the form of a
      single lump sum payment, calculated in accordance with the provisions of
      Paragraph (c) hereof.  

(ii)  

10-year
      installments   .
      If a Participant made a valid election for 10-year installments under
      subparagraph (iv) hereof, such Participant s entire benefit under the
      Plan, whether payable as a service benefit or a deferred benefit, shall be
      paid in the form of annual installments payable over a period of 10 years.
      The amount of the annual installments shall be determined by calculating
      the Participant s benefit under the Plan as a single lump sum in
      accordance Paragraph (c) hereof and then paying 1/10   th    of the amount each year plus
      interest annually at the rate then specified under the Pension
      Plan.  

(iii)  

Life
      Annuity   . If a
      Participant made a valid election for a life annuity under subparagraph
      (iv) hereof, such Participant s entire benefit under the Plan, whether
      payable as a service benefit or a deferred benefit, shall be paid in the
      form of monthly payments payable over the life of the Participant. The
      amount of the monthly payments shall equal the Participant s annualized
      benefit determined under Section 4(a)(i)(A) of Article IV divided by
      12.  

(iv)            Election
Opportunity   .  

(1)  

Initial
      Election   .
      Participant s who are participating in the Plan as of September 30, 2006
      (or become newly eligible during October 2006) may elect a single lump sum
      payment, 10-year installments or a life annuity during the period between
      October 1, 2006 and November 30, 2006. Participants who first become
      Participants in the Plan on or after November 1, 2006 may elect a single
      lump sum, 10-year installments or a life annuity; provided such election
      must be made within 30 days of the Participant s initial participation in
      the Plan.  

(2)  

Subsequent
      Elections   .
      Participants may elect to change the form of payment (and the timing of
      payment) during a time other than that specified under subparagraph (1)
      above; however, such election must comply with the requirements of Code
      Section 409A and applicable regulations thereunder, which means that the
      subsequent election will only be effective if made at least one year prior
      to the time at which the distribution would be made absent the subsequent
      election AND if the first payment under the form of payment elected is
      delayed for at least a five year
period.  

(v)  

De Minimis
      Cash-Out   .
      Notwithstanding any election made under subparagraph (iv) hereof, if at
      the time of the Participant s termination of employment, the present value
      of the benefit of a Participant, whether payable as a service benefit or a
      deferred benefit, is less than $20,000, such benefit shall be paid in the
      form of a single lump sum payment, calculated in accordance with Paragraph
      (c) hereof.  

(c)               Lump Sum
Calculation   .  

Benefits
payable in a single lump sum in accordance with the Plan shall be the amount
that is the actuarial present value of the Participant s benefit, or applicable
portion thereof, expressed as a single life annuity and shall be determined
using (i) the applicable interest rate then in effect under the Pension
Plan, and (ii) the applicable mortality table then in effect under the Pension
Plan. 

6.               Timing of Payment of
Benefits   

Except
for the reasons specified below, benefits granted under this Plan shall commence
on the day following the date of termination of employment from the Company and
all Affiliates. 

(a)              For Terminations of
Employment Occurring prior to January 1, 2007   .  

(i)  

An Executive who is a Band BB
      officer or above and who has made a valid lump sum election shall receive
      the lump sum payment (including interest accrued annually at the
      applicable interest rate in effect under the Pension Plan) as soon as
      administratively feasible following the date that is 2 years following his
      date of retirement or other termination of
    employment.  

(ii)  

Participants eligible for a
      deferred vested benefit will have their Post-2004 benefit commence at such
      time as the individual otherwise elects to commence payment of benefits
      under the Pension Plan.  

(iii)  

Participants who have a Post-2004
      Benefit and who are Executives or otherwise considered specified employees
      under Code Section 409A at the time of his or her termination of
      employment shall receive the lump sum payment (including interest accrued
      annually at the applicable interest rate in effect under the Pension Plan)
      as soon as administratively feasible following the date that is 6 months
      following his or her date of retirement or other termination of
      employment.  

(b)              For Terminations of
Employment On or After January 1, 2007   .  

(i)  

Participants electing a single
      lump sum payment or 10-year installment payments and who are Executives or
      otherwise considered specified employees under Code Section 409A at the
      time of his or her termination of employment shall receive the single lump
      sum payment or the first installment under the 10-year installment form of
      benefit (each including interest accrued annually at the applicable
      interest rate in effect under the Pension Plan) as soon as
      administratively feasible following the date that is 6 months following
      his or her date of retirement or other termination of
      employment.  

(ii)  

Participants electing a life
      annuity payment form and who are Executives or otherwise considered
      specified employees under Code Section 409A shall receive the first
      annuity payment as soon as administrative feasible following the date that
      is 6 months following his or her retirement date or other termination of
      employment and this first payment shall equal 7 monthly annuity
      payments.  

7.               Treatment During Subsequent
Employment   

Employment
with any Participating Company or Affiliate for which a Participant is an
eligible employee, subsequent to retirement or termination of employment with
entitlement to any type of benefits described heretofore shall result in the
permanent suspension of the benefit for the period of such employment or
reemployment. Upon termination of such subsequent employment, the full benefit
payable hereunder shall be recalculated and then offset by any amounts
previously paid to the Participant using assumptions set forth under the Pension
Plan. The benefit will commence following the subsequent termination of
employment but shall be subject to the provisions set forth in Section 6 of this
Article IV regarding the timing of payment of benefits. 

8.               Employment with
Cingular   

Individuals
who were Participants as of December 23, 2001 and who transferred to Cingular
Wireless, LLC on or before December 23, 2001 pursuant to the Contribution
Agreement by and between BellSouth Corporation and AT T Inc. (formerly SBC
Communications, Inc.) continue to be actively employed by the Company for all
purposes of this Plan through December 31, 2006 and thereafter will continue to
be considered to be employed by the Company for all purposes except for the
accrual of future benefits ( i.e.,  final average pay and
Vesting Service Credit freezes but Net Credited Service continues to accrue)
until such time as the Participant terminates employment with Cingular Wireless,
or a successor company, and all its affiliated companies. 

ARTICLE
      V. DEATH BENEFITS 

1.              Eligibility and
Administration   

All
individuals who became eligible to participate in the Plan prior to January 1,
2006 shall be eligible for death benefits under this Plan. With respect to
individuals who become eligible to participate in the Plan on or after January
1, 2006, no death benefits shall be payable pursuant to this Article V. Death
benefits described herein are in addition to death benefits payable under the
Pension Plan but shall be subject to the same terms and conditions of, and
administered in the same manner as, corresponding death benefit provisions of
the Pension Plan. 

2.               Amount of Death
Benefit.   

For an
Executive, the benefit equals the annual base salary plus two times the Standard
Annual Bonus. The above stated amounts of base salary and Standard Annual Bonus
are those amounts in effect at the earlier of retirement or death including
those amounts previously deferred pursuant to other plans. For all other
Participants, the benefit equals the Standard Annual Bonus in effect at the
earlier of retirement or death. In addition, the death benefit for all
Participants will include the amount of death benefit, if any, that would
otherwise have been payable under the Pension Plan had there been no deferral of
compensation under any plan of the Company. The benefit amount will also include
the amount of death benefit, if any, that would otherwise have been payable
under the Pension Plan had the restriction on the amount of compensation that
may be taken into account under Code Section 401(a)(17) not been
applicable. 

3.               Death Benefits After
2005   .  

Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 2 of this Article V preceding, with respect to each
Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2005, the amount of any death
benefit payable pursuant to Section 1 of this Article V shall in no event be
based on base salary and/or Standard Award amounts greater than such
Participant s base salary and the Standard Award applicable with respect to such
Participant on December 31, 2005. 

4.              Form and Source of
Payments   

All death
benefits payable pursuant to this Article V of the Plan shall be paid in a
single lump sum as soon as administratively feasible following the death of the
Participant and shall be paid from Company or Participating Company's operating
expenses, or through the purchase of insurance from an Insurance Company as the
Company may determine. 

ARTICLE
VI. GENERAL PROVISIONS 

1.               Effective
Date   

This Plan
was originally effective January 1, 1984 and this restatement of the Plan is
effective January 1, 2005. 

2.               Rights to
Benefit   

There is
no right to any benefit under this Plan except as may be provided by the Company
or each Participating Company. Participants have the status of general,
unsecured creditors of the Participating Company and the Plan constitutes a mere
promise by the Participating Company to make benefit payments in the future. A
Participant shall have only a contractual right to receive the benefits provided
for hereunder if and when he complies with all of the conditions set forth
herein. Nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to the
provisions of this Plan shall create or be construed to create a trust of any
kind. The Plan is intended to be "unfunded" for purposes of the Pension Act and
the Code. If any payment is made to a Participant, his or her surviving spouse
or other beneficiary with respect to benefits described in this Plan from any
source arranged by the Company or a Participating Company including the Rabbi
Trust Agreements and also including, without limitation, any other fund, trust,
insurance arrangement, bond, security device, or any similar arrangement, such
payment shall be deemed to be in full and complete satisfaction of the
obligation of the Company or Participating Company under this Plan to the extent
of such payment as if such payment had been made directly by the Company or
Participating Company; and (ii) if any payment from a source described in clause
(i) above shall be made, in whole or in part, prior to the time payment would be
made under the terms of this Plan, such payment shall be deemed to satisfy the
obligation of the Company or Participating Company to pay Plan benefits
beginning with the benefit which would next become payable under the Plan and
continuing in the order in which benefits are so payable, until the payment from
such other source is fully recovered. In determining the benefits satisfied by a
payment described in clause (ii), Plan benefits, as they become payable, shall
be discounted to their value as of the date such actual payment was made using
an interest rate equal to the valuation interest rate for deferred annuities as
last published by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation prior to the date of
such actual payment. If the benefits which actually become payable under this
Plan, after applying the discount described in the preceding sentence, are less
than the amount of the payment described in clause (ii), any such shortfall
shall not be collected from or enforced against the Participant as a claim by
the Company or Participating Company. 

3.               Liability for Payment of
Benefits   

Where a
Participant's period of service includes service in more than one Participating
Company or in a company that is not a Participating Company, the last
Participating Company to employ him or her immediately prior to his or her
retirement or termination of employment with entitlement to a benefit hereunder
shall be responsible for the full benefit under this Plan. 

4.               Governing
Law   

The
Company intends that this Plan be an unfunded deferred compensation plan
maintained primarily for a select group of management and highly compensated
employees exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of the Pension Act by reason
of the exemptions set forth in Sections 201(a), 301(a) and 401(a) of the Pension
Act and from Part 1 of the Pension Act by reason of the exemption set forth in
Section 2520.104-23 of applicable United States Department of Labor regulations.
This Plan shall be interpreted and administered accordingly. This Plan shall be
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia to the extent such
laws are not preempted by the Pension Act. Notwithstanding any provision to the
contrary in this Plan, each provision of this Plan shall be interpreted to
permit the deferral of compensation and the payment of deferred amounts in
accordance with Code Section 409A and any provision that would conflict with
such requirements shall not be valid or enforceable. 

5.               Assignment or
Alienation   

Benefits
payable, and rights to benefits, under this Plan may not in any manner be
anticipated, sold, transferred, assigned (either at law or in equity),
alienated, pledged, encumbered or subject to attachment, garnishment, levy,
execution or other legal or equitable process. 

6.               Employment at
Will   

Nothing
contained in this Plan shall be construed as conferring upon a Participant the
right to continue in the employ of the Company. 

7.               Savings
Clause   

In the
event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason,
the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan,
and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid
provision had not been included. 

8.               Payments to
Others   

Benefits
payable to a former employee or retiree unable to execute a proper receipt may
be paid to other person(s) in accordance with the standards and procedures set
forth in the Pension Plan. 

9.               Plan
Termination   

Subject
to the limitations described below, the Company retains the right to terminate,
in whole or in part, and each Participating Company retains the right to
withdraw from this Plan, at any time, for any reason, with or without notice.
The Company will continue to make payments, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the Plan, to all Participants who were either retired or
terminated prior to Plan termination, and will also continue to recognize its
obligation to the surviving spouse of the aforementioned individuals.
Additionally, Participants who have satisfied the service requirements for a
deferred vested pension under the Pension Plan on the date of Plan termination
shall receive benefits under the terms of the Plan as in effect immediately
prior to its termination, the amount of such benefit to be calculated as if the
Participant retired (or otherwise terminated employment) on the termination date
of the Plan, it being the Company's intent that termination of the Plan shall
not adversely affect any entitlement to such benefits and any amendment,
modification or termination of this Plan inconsistent with this expression of
intent shall be null and void. 

ARTICLE
VII. INTERCHANGE OF BENEFIT OBLIGATION 

The same
transfer of service credit provisions contained in interchange agreements
presently in existence under the Pension Plan, or as they may be amended from
time to time, by and between the Company, on behalf of all Participating
Companies, and any Interchange Company shall apply to the transfer of service
credit for purposes of this Plan. 

ARTICLE
VIII. PLAN MODIFICATION 

The
Company may, in its sole discretion, from time to time make any changes in the
Plan as it deems appropriate, provided, that no such action shall accelerate or
postpone the time or schedule of payment of any Plan benefit except as may be
permitted under Code Section 409A and regulations thereunder; and provided
further, such modifications shall not result in a reduction of benefits to
either: (i) those participants or their surviving spouses already receiving
benefits under this Plan, or (ii) those participants who have satisfied the
service requirements for a deferred vested pension under the Pension Plan.
Specifically, no Plan modification shall have the effect of reducing a
Participant's benefits under the Plan to which he or she would be entitled under
the terms of the Plan as in effect in immediately prior to its modification, the
amount of such benefit to be calculated as if the Participant retired (or
otherwise terminated employment) on the date the Plan was modified, it being the
Company's intent that any modification of the Plan shall not adversely affect
any entitlement to such benefits and any amendment, modification or termination
of this Plan inconsistent with this expression of intent shall be null and void.
In addition, the Company may authorize the execution of agreements providing
retirement benefits subject generally to the terms and conditions of the Plan
and benefits under such agreements shall be deemed provided hereunder, and any
such amendments authorized prior to the amendment and restatement of the Plan
shall be incorporated herein by reference. 

</EX-10.ZZ>

<EX-10.ZZ_I>
 23
 ex10zz1.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE BELLSOUTH CORP SUPPLEMENTAL EXEC RETIREMENT PLAN

ex10zz1.htm 

Exhibit
10-zz(i) 

AMENDMENT TO THE BELLSOUTH
CORPORATION  

       SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT
PLAN  

THIS AMENDMENT is made to the BellSouth
Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "Plan"), effective as of
December 31, 2005. 

WITNESSETH: 

WHEREAS, BellSouth Corporation (the
"Company") sponsors the Plan, which was amended and restated effective November
1, 1997; and 

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the
Company has delegated to the Executive Nominating and Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") authority to approve
amendments to existing executive compensation plans or programs, other than
amendments involving significant policy considerations or as otherwise
appropriate; and 

WHEREAS, the Plan has previously been
amended pursuant to actions of the Compensation Committee at its November 24,
2003 and June 28, 2004 meetings; and 

WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee, at
its November 28, 2005 meeting and at its special meeting on January 10, 2006,
approved further amendments to the Plan to provide for capping the amount of
lump sum death benefits under Section 5 of the Plan for current Plan
Participants at the amount that would have been payable had a Participant died
on December 31, 2005 and, for all future Plan Participants, to eliminate
altogether death benefits described in Section 5 of the Plan; and 

WHEREAS,
the Compensation Committee authorized appropriate officers of the Company to do
such further acts and to execute such documents as may be necessary or advisable
to effectuate the purposes of its resolutions adopting such Plan
amendments; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority delegated by the Compensation Committee,
the undersigned officer approves the following revisions to the Plan
document: 

Section 5
of the Plan shall be amended by inserting, immediately following Section 5.1, a
new Section 5.1A which shall read as follows: 

1A.  Death Benefits After
2005. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 5.1 preceding: 

(i) with respect to each Participant in
the Plan on December 31, 2005, the amount of any death benefit payable pursuant
to Section 5.1 shall in no event be based on base salary and/or Standard Award
amounts greater than such Participant's base salary and the Standard Award
applicable with respect to such Participant on December 31, 2005;
and 

(ii) with respect to individuals who
become eligible to participate in the Plan on or after January 1, 2006, no death
benefits shall be payable pursuant to this Section 5. 

Any other provisions of the Plan not
amended herein shall remain in full force and effect. 

January
      19, 2006 

/s/
      Richard D. Sibbernsen 

Date 

Vice
      President-Human Resources 

</EX-10.ZZ_I>

<EX-10.AAA>
 24
 ex10aaa.htm
 BELLSOUTH SUPPLEMENTAL LIFE INSURANCE PLAN

ex10aaa.htm 

Exhibit
      10-aaa 

BELLSOUTH
      SUPPLEMENTAL LIFE INSURANCE PLAN  

PLAN
      DOCUMENT 

This
      section includes a general
      information summary (first 3 pages) and the plan document for the BellSouth
      Supplemental Life Insurance Plan. The plan document and the general information
      summary together are intended to serve as both the full text of the BellSouth
      Supplemental Life Insurance Plan as well as a summary plan description of such
      plan. 

GENERAL
      INFORMATION ABOUT THE BELLSOUTH 

      SUPPLEMENTAL
      LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

NAME
      OF
      PLAN: BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance Plan 

NAME
      AND
      ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER 

Various
      BellSouth companies
      participate in this Plan. BellSouth Corporation's address is: 

1155
      Peachtree Street,
      N.E. 

        Suite
      13C09 

        Atlanta,
      Georgia 30309 

EMPLOYER
      IDENTIFICATION
      NUMBER:        58-1533433 

PLAN
      NUMBER: 589 

TYPE
      OF
      PLAN 

This
      Plan is a welfare benefit plan
      in which participants are given the opportunity to receive life insurance
      coverage purchased with a combination of employer and employee
      contributions. 

TYPE
      OF
      ADMINISTRATION 

Benefits
      are provided through
      insurance contracts purchased under the terms of the Plan. The Plan is
      administered by BellSouth Corporation. 

CLAIMS
      PROCEDURE 

Claims
      for insurance benefits under
      the Plan are handled by and should be directed to the Plan
      Administrator. 

1 

PLAN
      YEAR 

The
      Plan Year is the period beginning
      each January 1 and ending each December 31 during which the Plan is in
      effect. 

END
      OF
      YEAR FOR FISCAL YEAR
      PURPOSES:                                                                                                                          December
      31 

NAME,
      BUSINESS ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OF PLAN ADMINISTRATOR 

BellSouth
      Corporation 

        1155
      Peachtree Street,
      N.E. 

        Atlanta,
      Georgia
      30309-3610 

        Attn.:
      Director Executive
      Benefits 

        (404)
      249-2228 

SERVICE
      OF LEGAL PROCESS 

Service
      of legal process may be made
      upon the Plan Administrator. 

EFFECTIVE
      DATE 

The
      Effective Date of the Plan is
      January 1, 1998 and was amended and restated April 1, 2004. 

PARTICIPANT'S
      RIGHTS UNDER ERISA 

Participants
      in the Plan are entitled
      to certain rights and protections under the Employee Retirement Income Security
      Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). ERISA provides that each Plan participant
      may: 

(1)        Examine,
      without charge, all Plan documents, and copies of all documents files by the
      Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor, such as detailed annual reports and
      Plan
      descriptions, if applicable. 

(2)        Obtain
      copies of all Plan documents and other Plan information upon written request
      to
      the Plan Administrator. The Administrator may make a reasonable charge for
      copies; 

(3)        Receive
      a summary of the Plan's annual financial report. The Plan Administrator is
      required by law to furnish each participant with a copy of this summary annual
      report; 

You
      should also be aware of the
      following protections afforded by ERISA: 

2 

(1)      The
      people who operate the Plan, called "fiduciaries," must act prudently and in
      the
      interest of you and other Plan participants and beneficiaries. 

(2)      No
      one
      may interfere with the exercise of any rights which you have under the Plan
      or
      ERISA. 

(3)      If
      your
      claim for a benefit is denied in whole or in part, you must receive a written
      explanation of the reason for denial. 

(4)      You
      have
      the right to have the Plan Administrator review and reconsider your
      claim. 

Under
      ERISA, there are steps you can
      take to enforce the above rights. If you request materials from the Plan and
      do
      not receive them within 30 days, you may choose to file suit in a federal court.
      If the court finds that you are entitled to receive those materials, it may
      require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you a daily
      penalty until you receive them. However, if the documents were
      not  sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Plan
      Administrator, he will not be penalized. If you have a claim for benefits which
      is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you may choose to file suit in a
      state or federal court. If it should happen that Plan fiduciaries misuse the
      Plan's money, or if you are discriminated against for asserting your rights,
      you
      may seek assistance from the U. S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit
      in
      a federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal
      fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, if,
      for
      example, it finds your claim frivolous. 

If
      you have any questions about this
      statement or about your rights under ERISA, you should contact the nearest
      Area
      Office of the U.S. Labor --Management Services Administration Department of
      Labor. 

3 

BELLSOUTH
      SUPPLEMENTAL LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

      AMENDED
      AND RESTATED APRIL 1, 2004 

1.    PURPOSE 

The
      purpose of the BellSouth
      Supplemental Life Insurance Plan (the "Plan") is to provide an insurance
      arrangement under which BellSouth Corporation and its subsidiaries and
      affiliates can assist key employees in acquiring and financing life insurance
      coverage. 

2.    DEFINITIONS 

For
      purposes of this Plan, the
      following terms have the meanings set forth below: 

2.01  "COVERAGE
      AMOUNT"
      means the Policy death benefit payable under the Participant's
      Policy. 

2.02  COVERAGE
      EFFECTIVE
      DATE" means the Policy Date as determined by the Insurer. 

2.03  "COVERAGE
      LEVEL"
      means the Single Life Coverage insurance death benefit the Employee is eligible
      for under the Plan, determined based on the Employee's job classification,
      in
      accordance with the schedule of Coverage Levels maintained by the Plan
      Administrator.  Provided, however, that to determine the amount of
      insurance death benefit for which an Employee is eligible, the applicable amount
      from the schedule of Coverage Levels shall be reduced by one hundred percent
      (100%) of the amount of any Single Life Coverage insurance death benefit and
      by
      fifty percent (50%) of the amount of any Survivorship Coverage insurance death
      benefit provided to the Employee under the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance
      Plan, the BellSouth Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan, or the BellSouth
      Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance Plan. 

2.04  "DISABILITY"
      means
      that the Participant is receiving disability benefits under any long-term
      disability plan sponsored by the Employer or an affiliated entity. 

2.05  "EMPLOYEE"
      means an
      employee or former employee of the Employer who is eligible to participate
      in
      the Plan. 

2.06  "EMPLOYER"
      means
      BellSouth Corporation and any subsidiary or affiliate of BellSouth Corporation
      which is authorized by the Plan Administrator to participate in this
      Plan. 

2.07  "EMPLOYER
      PREMIUM"
      means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the Total Policy Premium payable
      for the year, less the portion of the premium to be paid by the Participant
      pursuant to Section 5.01 of the Plan. 

4 

2.08  "ENROLLMENT
      AGE"
      means the Participant's age at the time of enrollment in the Plan as to the
      Participant's initial Coverage Amount under the Plan, and it means the
      Participant's age at a subsequent enrollment for an increased Coverage Amount
      as
      to the increased Coverage Amount. 

2.09  "INSURANCE
      COST"
      means, with respect to a Participant, the annual cost for the Participant's
      Coverage Amount determined pursuant to the Insurance Cost schedule maintained
      by
      the Plan Administrator.  The Insurance Cost for a Participant shall be
      determined at the time of the Participant's enrollment in the Plan, based on
      the
      Participant's Coverage Amount and Enrollment Age, and shall not change
      thereafter. A smoker rate shall be used to determine the Insurance Cost for
      any
      Participant who is deemed a smoker by the Insurer; a nonsmoker rate shall be
      used for all other Participants.  A change in the Insurance Cost
      schedule will be effective only as to Plan enrollments occurring after the
      effective date of the change; it shall not affect the Insurance Cost for a
      Participant with respect to any Coverage Amount in effect for the Participant
      prior to the effective date of the change. 

If
      a Participant's coverage is in
      effect for a period of less than twelve (12) months during any Policy Year,
      the
      Participant's Insurance Cost for that year shall be determined by multiplying
      the annual cost as determined from the Insurance Cost schedule by a fraction,
      the numerator of which is the number of full months that the coverage is in
      effect and the denominator of which is twelve (12). 

2.10  "INSURER"
      means, with
      respect to a Participant's Policy, the insurance company issuing the insurance
      policy on the Participant's life (or on the joint lives of the Participant
      and
      the Participant's spouse, in the case of a Survivorship Policy) pursuant to
      the
      provisions of the Plan. 

2.11  "PARTICIPANT"
      means
      an Employee who is participating in the Plan. 

2.12  "PARTICIPANT
      PREMIUM"
      means, with respect to each Policy Year (or portion thereof) for a Participant,
      the Participant's Insurance Cost. 

2.13  "PERMANENT
      POLICY"
      means a Participant's Policy having cash values which are projected to be
      sufficient to continue to provide death benefit coverage at least equal to
      the
      Participant's Coverage Amount until the policy maturity date specified in the
      Participant's Policy (determined without regard to any Policy rider which
      extends the maturity date beyond the originally scheduled policy maturity date),
      and which is projected to have a cash accumulation value equal to at least
      ninety-five percent (95%) of the Policy Coverage Amount at the maturity date
      specified in such Policy, with no further premium payments. The determination
      of
      whether a Policy is at a given time a Permanent Policy shall be made by the
      Plan
      Administrator, based on Policy projections provided by the Insurer or its agent
      utilizing the Policy's then current mortality rates and Policy expenses, and
      the
      following Policy interest crediting rates. 

5 

For
      the Policy Year in which the
      determination is made and for all prior Policy years, if any, the Policy
      projection shall be based on the actual interest crediting rates in effect
      for
      the Policy (or, if such rate is not known when the determination is made, the
      actual rate in effect for the preceding Policy Year). For each of the ten (10)
      succeeding Policy Years, the projections shall reflect that rate decreased
      ratably such that the rate for the tenth Policy Year following the Policy Year
      in which the determination is made shall be five percent (5%). For all
      successive Policy Years, the projection shall reflect a five percent (5%) Policy
      interest crediting rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the interest
      crediting rate in effect for the Policy Year in which the determination is
      made
      is less than five percent (5%), the projections shall reflect such lower rate
      for all Policy Years thereafter. 

2.14  "PLAN"
      means the
      BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, embodied herein. 

2.15  "PLAN
      ADMINISTRATOR"
      means the Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth Corporation and any individual
      or
      committee he designates to act on his behalf with respect to any or all of
      his
      responsibilities hereunder; provided, the Board of Directors of BellSouth
      Corporation may designate any other person or committee to serve in lieu of
      the
      Chief Executive Officer as the Plan Administrator with respect to any or all
      of
      the administrative responsibilities hereunder. 

2.16  "PLAN
      EFFECTIVE DATE"
      means the effective date of the Plan, which is January 1, 1998. 

2.17  "POLICY"
      means the
      life insurance coverage acquired on the life of the Participant (or on the
      joint
      lives of the Participant and the Participant's spouse, in the case of a
      Survivorship Policy) by the Participant or other Policy Owner issued pursuant
      to
      the terms of this Plan. The Plan Administrator shall determine the specific
      policies which may be acquired under the Plan, and shall maintain a list of
      approved policies. 

2.18  "POLICY
      OWNER" means
      the Participant or that person or entity to whom the Participant has assigned
      his interest in the Policy. 

2.19  "POLICY
      YEAR" means
      the twelve month period (and each successive twelve month period) beginning
      on
      the Coverage Effective Date. 

2.20  "PREMIUM
      PAYMENT
      YEARS" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the number of consecutive
      Policy Years, beginning with the first Policy Year, and continuing for the
      longer of: (1) all Policy Years ending at the end of the Policy Year during
      which the Participant attains age sixty-two (62) (or, if the Participant dies
      before such time, the end of the Policy Year during which the Participant would
      have attained such age); or (2) five (5) Policy Years. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, if prior to the end of such period the Policy qualifies as a
      Permanent Policy, the Premium Payment Years shall end at such earlier
      time. 

6 

2.21  "RETIREMENT"
      means a
      termination of the Participant's employment with the Employer under
      circumstances where the Participant is immediately eligible to receive pension
      benefits under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) maintained
      by
      the Employer or one of its subsidiaries. 

2.22  "SINGLE
      LIFE
      COVERAGE" means life insurance coverage on the life of the
      Participant. 

2.23  "SURVIVORSHIP
      COVERAGE" means life insurance coverage on the lives of the Participant and
      the
      Participant's spouse, with the life insurance death benefit to be payable at
      the
      death of the last survivor of the Participant and the Participant's
      spouse. 

2.24  "TOTAL
      POLICY
      PREMIUM" means the level annual premium amount for the Participant's Single
      Life
      Coverage Policy that is projected to result in the Policy qualifying as a
      Permanent Policy if the annual premium amount is paid each year for all
      scheduled Premium Payment Years, assuming the Participant qualifies for the
      Insurer's guaranteed issue nonsmoker rates, or if the Participant is deemed
      by
      the Insurer to be a smoker, the Insurer's guaranteed issue smoker rates. The
      determination as to the amount of the Total Policy Premium shall be based on
      Single Life Coverage even if the Participant elects Survivorship Coverage.
      If
      more than one type of Single Life Coverage Policy is available under the Plan,
      the Plan Administrator shall determine the Single Life Coverage Policy to be
      used to determine the Total Policy Premium. The Total Policy Premium for a
      Participant shall be determined when the Participant enrolls for coverage under
      the Plan, and shall not be changed thereafter; it shall be based on the
      Participant's Coverage Level, or, if less, the actual Coverage Amount elected
      by
      the Participant. 

3.    ELIGIBILITY 

3.01  GENERAL.  Each
      Employee who is designated by the Plan Administrator as a member of the
      Employer's "executive compensation group" or as a "senior manager" shall be
      eligible to participate in the Plan, provided that the Employee (and any other
      appropriate party, such as the Employee's spouse or a Policy Owner other than
      the Employee, as determined by the Plan Administrator) relinquishes any rights
      to or interests in any policies providing interim coverage during the
      rehabilitation of Confederation Life Insurance Company under the BellSouth
      Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan or the BellSouth Corporation Senior
      Manager Life Insurance Plan and completes such other forms as the Plan
      Administrator may require. Each such Employee on the Plan Effective Date shall
      be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the Plan Effective Date. Each
      Employee subsequently satisfying such eligibility requirements shall be eligible
      to participate in the Plan effective as of the first day of January following
      the date on which such eligibility requirements are satisfied. 

3.02  TYPE
      OF
      COVERAGE.  If an Employee is married at the time the Employee enrolls
      in the Plan, the Employee can elect to participate in either Single Life
      Coverage or Survivorship Coverage. An Employee who is unmarried at the time
      the
      Employee enrolls in the Plan shall be eligible for Single Life Coverage only.
      The election of one type of coverage shall not preclude the Participant from
      electing the other type of coverage as to any increased Coverage Level the
      Participant becomes eligible for pursuant to Section 4.02 of the
      Plan. 

7 

3.03  CONVERSION
      OF
      COVERAGE.  Subject to any proof of insurability required by the
      Insurer, a Participant (or other Policy Owner) can elect to convert Survivorship
      Coverage to Single Life Coverage, and with respect to a married Participant,
      the
      Participant (or other Policy Owner) can elect to convert Single Life Coverage
      to
      Survivorship Coverage. Provided, however, that the number of Premium Payment
      Years for a Participant shall not be redetermined in connection with a
      conversion from one type of coverage to another. Upon a conversion, the cash
      values of the replaced Policy shall be transferred to the new Policy in
      accordance with the Insurer's practices. Any Insurer charges or tax liability
      resulting from a conversion shall be borne by the Participant or other Policy
      Owner. 

4.    AMOUNT
      OF COVERAGE 

4.01  GENERAL.  An
      Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan under Section 3.01 of the
      Plan shall be eligible for the full Coverage Level as specified in the Plan
      under Section 2.03. However, within sixty (60) days of the distribution of
      the
      enrollment materials, a Participant can elect a Coverage Amount which is less
      than the applicable Coverage Level; provided, however, that the Coverage Amount
      elected must be an even multiple of $100,000. If a Participant elects a Coverage
      Amount less than the Participant's Coverage Level (or fails to elect any
      Coverage), the Participant cannot later increase the Coverage Amount except
      in
      connection with a promotion under Section 4.02 of the Plan. 

4.02  PROMOTIONS.  Employees
      promoted to a job classification or position eligible for an increased Coverage
      Level shall be eligible for the increased Coverage Level effective as of the
      first day of January following the promotion. The additional Coverage Amount
      available to the Participant under this Section shall be equal to the applicable
      Coverage Level after the promotion reduced by any Coverage Amounts already
      in
      effect for a Participant. In order to be effective, any election for an increase
      in the Coverage Amount must be made within the time period prescribed by the
      Plan Administrator in enrollment materials provided to the
      Employee. 

4.03  SURVIVORSHIP
      COVERAGE.  If a Participant elects Survivorship Coverage, the amount
      of Survivorship Coverage will be determined by the Plan Administrator based
      on
      the Participant's age and smoker or nonsmoker status, the age and insurability
      of the Participant's spouse, and based on the Participant's Total Policy
      Premium. The Coverage Amount shall be the highest amount such that the Policy
      will qualify as a Permanent Policy if the Total Policy Premium is paid for
      each
      year that is a scheduled Premium Payment Year. 

8 

4.04  OTHER.  Notwithstanding
      any provision herein to the contrary, any benefits payable under the Plan shall
      be limited to those provided by the applicable Policy and all the terms of
      such
      Policy (including, but not limited to, any requirements of insurability) shall
      apply under the Plan. Under no circumstances will the Employer be liable for
      any
      amount claimed to be due under any Policy or for any Coverage amount or Coverage
      Level and any benefits due under the Plan shall be limited to those provided
      by
      the Insurer under the Policy. 

4.05  EXCLUSIONS.  If
      a
      Participant commits suicide within two years of policy issue, or if a
      Participant makes any material misstatement of information (smoker and/or
      employment status) and dies within two years of policy issue, then no benefits
      will be paid to the beneficiary of such Participant. 

5.    PAYMENT
      OF PREMIUMS 

5.01  PARTICIPANT
      PREMIUM
      PAYMENTS.  A Participant shall pay the Participant Premium for each
      Policy Year which is a Premium Payment Year for the Participant. The amount
      shall be paid by the Participant to the Employer by payroll (or retirement
      income) deductions of equal installments during the Policy Year, or in such
      other manner as may be determined by the Plan Administrator. The Employer shall
      pay the Participant Premium amount to the Insurer, and can do so as collected
      from the Participant or can advance payments to the Insurer, except Section
      16
      insiders, for a Policy Year at any time during the Policy Year or up to thirty
      (30) days in advance of the Policy Year. If a Participant terminates employment
      with the Employer, and the Employer has made such an advance payment of the
      Participant Premium to the Insurer, the Employer may withhold any uncollected
      portion of the advanced Participant Premium from any amount payable to the
      Participant by the Employer to the extent permitted by law. Notwithstanding
      the
      other provisions of this paragraph, no Participant Premium shall be required
      with respect to Survivorship Coverage after the death of the
      Participant. 

5.02  EMPLOYER
      PREMIUM
      PAYMENTS.  The Employer shall pay the Employer Premium for a
      Participant's Policy within thirty (30) days of the beginning of each Policy
      Year which is a Premium Payment Year. 

5.03  ADDITIONAL
      EMPLOYER
      PREMIUM PAYMENTS.  For each of the last three (3) scheduled Premium
      Payment Years for a Participant, the Plan Administrator shall determine whether
      there will be any increased Employer premium payment with respect to a
      Participant's Policy. The Plan Administrator shall first determine whether
      the
      Participant's Policy is then projected to qualify as a Permanent Policy if
      the
      Total Policy Premium is paid each year for the remaining scheduled Premium
      Payment Years. If the Policy is projected to qualify as a Permanent Policy,
      no
      increased Employer Premium payment shall be required for such Premium Payment
      Year. If the projections indicate that the Policy will not qualify as a
      Permanent Policy, then the amount payable by the Employer under Section 5.02
      shall be increased by an amount which will result in the Policy qualifying
      as a
      Permanent Policy if such increased amount is paid for each remaining Premium
      Payment Year, but any such increase in Employer Premium shall be limited by
      the
      maximum premium amounts permissible for such Policy under Internal Revenue
      Code
      Sections 7702 and 7702A (or comparable successor sections) without forfeiting
      any of the favorable tax attributes associated with life insurance policies.
      The
      determination as to whether any increased amount is payable shall be made
      separately for each of the last three (3) Premium Payment Years. However, the
      Employer Premium payable under Section 5.02 shall not be reduced to an amount
      that is less than the amount which would have been payable by the Employer
      for a
      Premium Payment Year without regard to this Section 5.03. 

9 

Regardless
      of the type of coverage
      actually provided to a Participant, and notwithstanding any changes in the
      type
      of coverage provided to the Participant under Section 3.03, the increased
      Employer Premium payable under this Section 5.03 shall be the amount that would
      be payable if the Participant had elected Single Life Coverage and maintained
      such coverage for all Policy Years; also, if more than one type of Single Life
      Coverage Policy is available under the Plan, the Single Life Coverage Policy
      used to determine Total Policy Premium under Section 2.24 shall be used to
      make
      the determination under this Section 5.03. In the event tax law limits preclude
      the Employer from qualifying a Policy as a Permanent Policy by the end of the
      last scheduled Premium Payment Year, then the Employer's obligation to pay
      premiums under Section 5.02 and 5.03 (and make additional Employer payments
      under Section 5.04) shall be extended until projections indicate that the Policy
      qualifies as a Permanent Policy. 

5.04  ADDITIONAL
      EMPLOYER
      PAYMENTS. 

a.    If
      the
      payment of an Employer Premium under Section 5.02 (or any increased amount
      under
      Section 5.03) results in the recognition of income for tax purposes by the
      Participant in any year, the Employer shall pay to the Participant an amount
      determined by the Plan Administrator which is designed to approximate (1) the
      sum of the total federal and state income taxes and applicable payroll taxes
      which would be payable by the Participant at the highest marginal rate provided
      for under applicable federal income tax laws, and at the highest marginal rate
      provided for under applicable state income tax laws for the state of the
      Participant's tax domicile, on the income so recognized, plus (2) the total
      federal and state income taxes and applicable payroll taxes which would be
      payable by the Participant on the payment described in clause (1). 

b.    If
      the
      payment of any Employer Premium under Section 5.02 (or any increased amount
      under Section 5.03) on Survivorship Coverage after the death of the Employee
      results in the recognition of income for tax purposes by the Participant's
      spouse or other Policy Owner, the Employer shall pay to the Participant's spouse
      or other Policy Owner an amount determined by the Plan Administrator which
      is
      designed to approximate the total federal and state income taxes which would
      be
      payable by the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner at the highest
      marginal rate provided for under applicable federal income tax laws, and at
      the
      highest marginal rate provided for under applicable state income tax laws for
      the state of the tax domicile of the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner,
      attributable to such premium payment. 

10 

c.    For
      purposes of this Section 5.04, a tax shall be deemed payable or income shall
      be
      deemed recognized if either (i) it is finally determined by the Internal Revenue
      Service, or (ii) an opinion is given by the Employer's counsel, that the tax
      is
      payable. 

d.    Any
      payment
      made to a Participant or a Participant's spouse under this Section shall be
      made
      no later than April 1 of the year following the year to which the payment
      relates. 

e.    Any
      amount
      to be paid to a Participant, a Participant's spouse, or other Policy Owner
      under
      this Section, and the amounts payable, shall be conclusively determined by
      the
      Plan Administrator based on generally applicable tax rates and not based upon
      the unique tax situation of each Participant, Participant's spouse, or other
      Policy Owner. 

5.05  TERMINATION
      OF
      OBLIGATION TO PAY PREMIUMS.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the
      contrary, the Employer's obligation to pay premiums (including any increased
      amounts under Section 5.03) with respect to the Participant's Policy, shall
      terminate upon the first to occur of any of the following events: 

a.    Termination
      of employment of the Participant with the Employer prior to the Participant's
      death for reasons other than Retirement or Disability. 

b.    The
      written
      notice by the Employer to the Participant following a resolution by the Board
      of
      Directors of BellSouth Corporation to terminate this Plan. 

c.    As
      to
      Single Life Coverage only, the death of the Participant. 

d.    As
      to
      Survivorship Coverage only, the death of the last survivor of the Participant
      and the Participant's spouse. 

e.    The
      surrender or cancellation of the Participant's Policy, except that a Policy
      will
      not be considered surrendered or canceled if the surrender or cancellation
      is in
      connection with the replacement of the Policy with another Policy pursuant
      to
      the provisions of the Plan. 

f.    The
      withdrawal of any Policy cash values, or borrowing against the Policy cash
      values, by the Participant or other Policy Owner. 

g.    The
      reduction of the Participant's Policy death benefit to a level that is less
      than
      the initial Policy Coverage Amount, except that a conversion from Survivorship
      Coverage to Single Life Coverage shall not be considered a reduction in Policy
      death benefit for the purpose of this Section. 

11 

h.    The
      determination by the Plan Administrator that the Policy will qualify as a
      Permanent Policy with no further Employer Premium payments. 

6.    POLICY
      OWNERSHIP 

6.01  OWNERSHIP.  The
      Policy Owner shall be the sole and exclusive owner of a Participant's Policy
      and
      shall be entitled to exercise all of the rights of ownership. 

6.02  POSSESSION
      OF
      POLICY.  The Policy Owner shall keep possession of the
      Policy. 

7.    GOVERNING
      LAWS   NOTICES 

7.01  GOVERNING
      LAW.  This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
      the laws of the State of Georgia. 

7.02  NOTICES.  All
      notices hereunder shall be in writing and sent by first class mail with postage
      prepaid. Any notice to the Employer shall be addressed to BellSouth Corporation
      at its office at 1155 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, GA 30367-6000, ATTENTION:
      Human Resources - Director Executive Benefits. Any notice to the Employee shall
      be addressed to the Employee at the address for the Employee maintained in
      the
      Employer's records. Any party may change the address for such party herein
      set
      forth by giving notice of such change to the other parties pursuant to this
      Section. 

8.    NOT
      A CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT 

This
      Plan shall not be deemed to
      constitute a contract of employment between an Employee and the Employer or
      a
      Participant and the Employer, nor shall any provision restrict the right of
      the
      Employer to discharge an Employee or Participant, or restrict the right of
      an
      Employee or Participant to terminate employment. 

9.    AMENDMENT,
      TERMINATION, ADMINISTRATION, CONSTRUCTION ANDSUCCESSORS 

9.01  AMENDMENT.  The
      Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation, or its delegate, shall have the
      right in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan in whole or in part at any
      time
      and from time to time. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall have the right,
      in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time
      so
      long as such amendment is not of a material nature. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, no modification or amendment shall be effective so as to decrease
      any
      benefits of a Participant unless the Participant consents in writing to such
      modification or amendment. Written notice of any material modification or
      amendment shall be given promptly to each Participant. 

12 

9.02  TERMINATION.  The
      Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation may terminate the Plan without
      the
      consent of the Participants or Employees. 

9.03  SUCCESSORS.  The
      terms and conditions of this Plan shall enure to the benefit of and bind the
      Employer, the Participant, their successors, assignees, and representatives.
      If,
      subsequent to the Effective Date of the Plan, substantially all of the stock
      or
      assets of the Employer are acquired by another corporation or entity or if
      the
      Employer is merged into, or consolidated with, another corporation or entity,
      then the obligations created hereunder shall be obligations of the acquirer
      or
      successor corporation or entity. 

10.    PLAN
      ADMINISTRATION 

10.01
      INDIVIDUAL
      ADMINISTRATOR.  If the Plan Administrator is an individual, he shall
      act and record his actions in writing. Any matter concerning specifically such
      individual's own benefit or rights hereunder shall be determined by the Board
      of
      Directors of BellSouth Corporation or its delegate. 

10.02
      ADMINISTRATIVE
      COMMITTEE.  If the Plan Administrator is a committee, or if any of the
      duties or responsibilities of the Plan Administrator are vested in a committee,
      action of the Plan Administrator may be taken with or without a meeting of
      committee members; provided, action shall be taken only upon the vote or other
      affirmative expression of a majority of the committee members qualified to
      vote
      with respect to such action. If a member of the committee is a Participant,
      he
      or she shall not participate in any decision which solely affects his or her
      own
      benefit under the Plan.  For purposes of administering the Plan, the
      Plan Administrator shall choose a secretary who shall keep minutes of the
      committee's proceedings and all records and documents pertaining to the
      administration of the Plan. The secretary may execute any certificate or other
      written direction on behalf of the Plan Administrator. 

10.03
      RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE PLAN
      ADMINISTRATOR.  The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan and
      shall have all powers necessary to accomplish that purpose, including (but
      not
      limited to) the following: 

a.    to
      construe, interpret and administer the Plan; 

b.    to
      make
      determinations required by the Plan, and to maintain records regarding
      Participants' benefits hereunder; 

c.    to
      compute
      and certify the amount and kinds of benefits payable to Participants, and to
      determine the time and manner in which such benefits are to be
      paid; 

d.    to
      authorize all disbursements pursuant to the Plan; 

e.    to
      maintain
      all the necessary records of the administration of the Plan; 

13 

f.    to
      make and
      publish such rules and procedures for the regulation of the Plan as are not
      inconsistent with the terms hereof; 

g.    to
      designate to other individuals or entities from time to time the performance
      of
      any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder; and 

h.    to
      hire
      agents, accountants, actuaries, consultants and legal counsel to assist in
      operating and administering the Plan. 

The
      Plan Administrator shall have the
      exclusive right to construe and interpret the Plan, to decide all questions
      of
      eligibility for benefits and to determine the amount of benefits, and its
      decisions on such matters shall be final and conclusive on all
      parties. 

10.04
      BOND;
      COMPENSATION.  The Plan Administrator and (if applicable) its members
      shall serve as such without bond and without compensation for services
      hereunder. 

11.   CLAIMS
      PROCEDURE 

11.01
      NAMED FIDUCIARY.  The
      Plan Administrator is hereby designated as the named fiduciary under this
      Plan. 

11.02
      CLAIMS
      PROCEDURES.  Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to
      this Plan shall be filed with the Plan Administrator which shall make all
      determinations concerning such claim. Any decision by the Plan Administrator
      denying such claim shall be in writing and shall be delivered to all parties
      in
      interest in accordance with the notice provisions of Section 7.02 hereof. Such
      decision shall set forth the reasons for denial in plain
      language.  Pertinent provisions of the Plan shall be cited and, where
      appropriate, an explanation as to how the Employee can perfect the claim will
      be
      provided. This notice of denial of benefits will be provided within 90 days
      of
      the Plan Administrator's receipt of the Employee's claim for benefits. If the
      Plan Administrator fails to notify the Employee of its decision regarding the
      claim, the claim shall be considered denied, and the Employee shall then be
      permitted to proceed with the appeal as provided in this Section. 

An
      Employee who has been completely
      or partially denied a benefit shall be entitled to appeal this denial of his/her
      claim by filing a written statement of his/her position with the Plan
      Administrator no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the written
      notification of such claim denial. The Plan Administrator shall schedule an
      opportunity for a full and fair review of the issue within thirty (30) days
      of
      receipt of the appeal. The decision on review shall set forth specific reasons
      for the decision, and shall cite specific references to the pertinent Plan
      provisions on which the decision is based.  Following the review of
      any additional information submitted by the Employee, either through the hearing
      process or otherwise, the Plan Administrator shall render a decision on the
      review of the denied claim in the following manner: 

14 

a.    The
      Plan
      Administrator shall make its decision regarding the merits of the denied claim
      within sixty (60) days following receipt of the request for review (or within
      120 days after such receipt, in a case where there are special circumstances
      requiring extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim).  The
      Plan Administrator shall deliver the decision to the claimant in writing. If
      an
      extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim is required because of
      special circumstances, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to
      the
      Employee prior to the commencement of the extension. If the decision on review
      is not furnished within the prescribed time, the claim shall be deemed denied
      on
      review. 

b.    The
      decision on review shall set forth specific reasons for the decision, and shall
      cite specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision
      is based. 

15 

</EX-10.AAA>

<EX-10.BBB>
 25
 ex10bbb.htm
 BELLSOUTH COMPENSATION DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10bbb.htm 

Exhibit
      10-bbb 

BELLSOUTH  

       COMPENSATION
      DEFERRAL
      PLAN  

       (As
      Amended and Restated Effective as
      of January 1, 2005)  

58149v19       

BELLSOUTH
      COMPENSATION DEFERRAL
      PLAN  

       (As
      Amended and Restated Effective as
      of January 1, 2005)  

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS  

58149.19 

i 

58149.19 

ii 

ARTICLE
                III   PARTICIPANTS  ACCOUNTS; DEFERRAL CONTRIBUTIONS 

7 

3.1 

Participants 
                Accounts 

7 

(a) 

Establishment
                of Accounts 

7 

(b) 

Nature
                of Contributions and Accounts 

7 

(c) 

Several
                Liabilities 

7 

(d) 

General
                Creditors 

7 

3.2 

Deferral
                Contributions 

7 

(a) 

Effective
                Date 

7 

(b) 

Term 

8 

(c) 

Deferral
                Election Amount 

8 

(d) 

Revocation 

8 

(e) 

Crediting
                of Deferred Compensation 

8 

3.3 

Deferral
                Elections and Multiple Participating Companies 

8 

3.4 

Vesting 

9 

3.5 

Debiting
                of Distributions 

9 

ARTICLE
                IV - DETERMINATION AND CREDITING OF INVESTMENT RETURN 

10 

4.1 

General
                Investment Parameters 

10 

4.2 

Participant
                Direction of Deemed Investments 

10 

(a) 

Nature
                of Participant Direction 

10 

(b) 

Investment
                of Contributions 

10 

(c) 

Investment
                of Existing Account Balances 

10 

(d) 

Investment
                Subaccounts 

10 

4.3 

Stock
                Unit Option 

11 

(a) 

Stock
                Unit Subaccount 

11 

(b) 

Cash
                Dividends 

11 

(c) 

Adjustments 

11 

4.4 

Interest
                Income Option 

12 

(a) 

Interest
                Income Subaccount 

12 

(b) 

Crediting
                of Deemed Interest 

12 

(i)   Amount
                Invested 

12 

(ii)  Determination
                of Amount 

12 

4.5 

Good
                Faith Valuation Binding 

12 

4.6 

Errors
                and Omissions in Accounts 

12 

58149.19 

iii 

58149.19 

iv 

58149.19 

v 

BELLSOUTH
      COMPENSATION DEFERRAL
      PLAN  

       (As
      Amended and Restated Effective as
      of January 1, 2005)  

Effective
      as of the 1st day of January,
      1997, BellSouth Corporation ( BellSouth ) established the BellSouth Compensation
      Deferral Plan (the  Plan ), and the Plan was subsequently amended from time to
      time.  The Plan is now amended and restated effective as of January 1,
      2005, and as so amended and restated is intended to comply with the requirements
      of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, with respect
      to all benefits under the Plan that are subject to Section
      409A.  Also, the Plan as restated, among other things, provides that
      no further elections to defer compensation may be made under the Plan after
      December 31, 2006, and coordinates Plan administration provisions applicable
      after the planned merger of BellSouth and AT T Inc. with provisions of
      BellSouth s Rabbi Trust Agreements. 

BACKGROUND
      AND
      PURPOSE   

A.             Goal  .  BellSouth
      desires to provide its designated key management employees, and those of its
      affiliated companies that participate in the Plan, with an opportunity
      (i) to defer the receipt and income taxation of a portion of such
      employees  compensation; and (ii) to receive an investment return on those
      deferred amounts based on the return of BellSouth stock, an indexed rate of
      interest, or a combination of the two. 

B.             Purpose  .  The
      purpose of the Plan is to set forth the terms and conditions pursuant to which
      these deferrals may be made and deemed invested and to describe the nature
      and
      extent of the employees  rights to their deferred amounts. 

C.             Type
      of
      Plan  .  The Plan constitutes an unfunded, nonqualified
      deferred compensation plan that benefits certain designated employees who are
      within a select group of key management or highly compensated
      employees.  Each Participating Company alone has the obligation to pay
      amounts payable under this Plan to its Plan Participants, and such payments
      are
      not an obligation of any other Participating Company. 

D.             No
      Deferrals after
      2006   .   Notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary herein, no Deferral Elections will be permitted under
      the Plan after December 31, 2006. 

58149.19 

1        

ARTICLE
      I  

        DEFINITIONS   

For
      purposes of the Plan, each of the
      following terms, when used with an initial capital letter, shall have the
      meaning set forth below unless a different meaning plainly is required by the
      context. 

1.1                Account     
      shall mean, with respect to
      a Participant or Beneficiary, the total dollar amount or value evidenced by
      the
      last balance posted in accordance with the terms of the Plan to the account
      record established for such Participant or Beneficiary with respect to the
      Deferral Contributions of such Participant for any Plan Year. 

1.2                Affiliate     
      shall mean at any time any
      corporation, joint venture or partnership in which BellSouth owns directly
      or
      indirectly, (i) with respect to a corporation, stock possessing at least ten
      percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in
      the
      corporation, or (ii) in the case of a joint venture or partnership, a ten
      percent (10%) or greater interest in the capital or profits of such joint
      venture or partnership. 

1.3                Base
      Salary     
      shall mean, with respect to each Eligible Employee for a specified Plan Year,
      the gross regular, periodic base salary earned by the Eligible Employee during
      such Plan Year, including any of the Eligible Employee s own before-tax and
      after-tax contributions to, or deferrals under, any Code Section 401(k), Code
      Section 125, nonqualified deferred compensation or other employee benefit plan
      or program, maintained by a Participating Company from time to time, but
      excluding any contributions or benefits paid under any such plan or program
      by a
      Participating Company. 

1.4                BellSouth     
      shall mean BellSouth
      Corporation, a Georgia corporation, or any successor entity. 

1.5                Beneficiary     
      shall mean, with respect to
      a Participant, the person(s) determined in accordance with Section 5.5 to
      receive any death benefits that may be payable under the Plan upon the death
      of
      the Participant. 

1.6                Board     
      shall mean the Board of
      Directors of BellSouth. 

1.7                Business
      Day      shall
      mean each day on which the New York Stock Exchange operates and is open to
      the
      public for trading. 

1.8                Code     
      shall mean the Internal
      Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

1.9                Company
      Stock     
      shall mean the $1.00 par value per share voting common stock of BellSouth;
      provided that, after the Merger,  Company Stock  shall mean the $1.00 par value
      per share voting common stock of AT T Inc. 

     58149.19 

2 

1.10      
               Compensation     
        shall mean, for any Plan
        Year, the Participant s annualized Base Salary rate as in effect on November 15
        preceding the beginning of the Plan Year.  Notwithstanding the
        foregoing, the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, may specify a
        date or
        dates other than November 15 on which a Participant s annualized Base Salary
        rate for a Plan Year is to be determined.  For any Participant
        employed by a Participating Company whose compensation structure does not
        readily fit this definition,  Compensation  shall mean cash compensation as
        defined by the Plan Administrator. 

1.11    
               Credited
      Interest
      Rate     
      shall mean, for each Plan Year, the rate of return equal to Moody s Monthly
      Average of Yields of Aa Corporate Bonds, as published by Moody s Investors
      Service, Inc., for the month of July immediately preceding such Plan
      Year.  If such rate (or any alternative rate described in this
      sentence) is at any time no longer available, the Plan Administrator shall
      designate an alternative rate which in the Plan Administrator s reasonable
      judgment is generally comparable to the rate described in the preceding
      sentence, and such alternative rate shall thereafter be the Credited Interest
      Rate. 

1.12      
             Deferral
      Contributions      shall
      mean, for each Plan
      Year, that portion of a Participant s Base Salary deferred under the Plan
      pursuant to Section 3.2. 

1.13              Deferral
      Election     
      shall mean an election form provided by the Plan Administrator on which an
      Eligible Employee may elect to defer under the Plan a portion of such Eligible
      Employee s Base Salary. 

1.14              Effective
      Date     
      shall mean January 1, 2005, the date as of which this most recent amendment
      and
      restatement of the Plan is effective, except to the extent that the Plan
      expressly provides a different effective date with respect to specific Plan
      provisions. 

1.15              Election
      Deadline     
      shall mean the November 30 (or if November 30 is not a Business Day, the last
      Business Day immediately preceding November 30) immediately preceding the first
      day of a Plan Year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, with the approval
      of the Plan Administrator,  Election Deadline  may mean the December 31 (or if
      December 31 is not a Business Day, the last Business Day immediately preceding
      December 31) immediately preceding the first day of such Plan Year. 

1.16              Election
      Package     
      shall mean a package consisting of a Deferral Election, an Investment Election
      and such other forms and documents distributed to such Eligible Employee by
      the
      Plan Administrator for the purpose of allowing such Eligible Employee to elect
      to actively participate in the Plan for a Plan Year. 

1.17              Eligible
      Employee     
      shall mean, for each Plan Year, each management employee of a Participating
      Company who (i) is a member of a select group of highly compensated or key
      management employees, and (ii) is a Senior Manager for the Plan Year, or is
      otherwise designated by the Plan Administrator as eligible to participate in
      the
      Plan for such Plan Year. 

58149.19 

3 

1.18              ERISA     
      shall mean the Employee
      Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 

1.19    
               Interest
      Income
      Option     
      shall mean the Investment Option described in Section 4.4, pursuant to which
      a
      Participant s deemed investment earnings are determined on the basis of the
      Credited Interest Rate. 

1.20              Interest
      Income
      Subaccount    
 shall
      mean a bookkeeping subaccount reflecting that portion of a
      Participant s Account for each Plan Year which is deemed to be invested in the
      Interest Income Option. 

1.21              Investment
      Election     
      shall mean an in such form as is provided by the Plan Administrator on which
      an
      Eligible Employee may elect to have Deferral Contributions for a Plan Year
      (and
      all investment earnings attributable thereto) deemed invested in either the
      Stock Unit Option and/or the Interest Income Option. 

1.22              Investment
      Options     
      shall mean the Stock Unit Option and the Interest Income Option. 

1.23            Merger   
shall
      mean the planned merger, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
      as
      of March 4, 2006 (the  Merger Agreement ), by and among BellSouth, AT T Inc.
      ( AT T ), and ABC Consolidation Corp., a Georgia corporation and
      wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T ( Merger Sub ), pursuant to which, at the
 Effective Time  (as defined in the Merger Agreement), BellSouth will be merged
      with and into the Merger Sub. 

1.24              Participant     
      shall mean any person
      participating in the Plan pursuant to the provisions of Article II, and shall
      include executive officers of BellSouth who participated in the Plan for Plan
      Years prior to 2002, for so long as each such individual has an Account
      hereunder. 

1.25              Participating
      Company     
      shall mean BellSouth and each Affiliate which, by action of its board of
      directors (or equivalent governing body), adopts the Plan as a Participating
      Company with the approval of the Plan Administrator.  Such entities
      shall be listed on Exhibit A hereto, which shall be updated from time to
      time to reflect the addition of new Participating Companies, and the effective
      dates of their participation, and the deletion of any entities which are no
      longer Participating Companies. 

1.26              Plan     
      shall mean the BellSouth
      Compensation Deferral Plan, as contained herein and all amendments
      hereto. 

1.27              Plan
      Administrator      shall
      mean the person(s)
      determined under Section 8.4 to the extent said Section is applicable, and
      otherwise shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth and any individual
      or committee the Chief Executive Officer designates to act on his or her behalf
      with respect to any or all of the Chief Executive Officer s responsibilities
      hereunder; provided, the Board may designate any other person or committee
      to
      serve in lieu of the Chief Executive Officer as the Plan Administrator with
      respect to any or all of the administrative responsibilities
      hereunder. 

58149.19 

4 

1.28              Plan
      Year      shall
      mean the calendar
      year. 

1.29            Rabbi
      Trust
      Agreements    shall mean each and all of the: (i) BellSouth
      Corporation Trust Under Executive Benefit Plan(s); (ii) BellSouth
      Telecommunications, Inc. Trust Under Executive Benefit Plan(s); (iii) BellSouth
      Enterprises, Inc. Trust Under Executive Benefit Plan(s); (iv) BellSouth
      Corporation Trust Under Executive Benefit Plan(s) for Mobile Systems Executives;
      (v) BellSouth Corporation Trust Under Executive Benefit Plan(s) for Advertising
      and Publishing Executives; and (vi) Trust Under Executive Benefit Plan(s) for
      Certain BellSouth Companies; in each case, as amended from time to
      time. 

1.30            Section
      409A   
shall mean Code Section 409A and the Treasury regulations or
      other authoritative
      guidance issued thereunder.  Whenever the terms  subject to Section
      409A  or  to the extent permitted by Section 409A  (or any such similar
      reference so as to indicate that a Plan provision is subject to Section 409A)
      are used, such terms shall be interpreted to mean that the applicable Plan
      provision shall be effective only if and to the extent such provision would
      not
      trigger penalty taxes or interest under Section 409A. 

1.31              Senior
      Manager     
      shall mean an employee of a Participating Company who, for purposes of this
      Plan
      for a Plan Year, is designated by the Plan Administrator as a  senior
      manager.  

1.32              Short
      Term Bonus
      Plan     
      shall mean the annual bonus plan(s) or program(s) in which one or more Senior
      Managers participate for a Plan Year, in all cases as determined by the Plan
      Administrator. 

1.33              Stock
      Unit     
      shall mean an accounting entry that represents an unsecured obligation of a
      Participating Company to pay to a Participant an amount which is based on the
      fair market value of one share of Company Stock as set forth
      herein.  A Stock Unit shall not carry any voting, dividend or other
      similar rights and shall not constitute an option or any other right to acquire
      any equity securities of BellSouth. 

1.34              Stock
      Unit
      Option     
      shall mean the Investment Option described in Section 4.3, pursuant to which
      a
      Participant s deemed investment earnings are determined by the rate of return
      applicable to Stock Units. 

1.35              Stock
      Unit
      Subaccount      shall
      mean a bookkeeping
      subaccount reflecting that portion of a Participant s Account for each Plan Year
      which is deemed to be invested in the Stock Unit Option. 

1.36              Valuation
      Date     
      shall mean December 31 (or, if December 31 is not a Business Day, the last
      Business Day immediately preceding December 31), and each other day declared
      by
      the Plan Administrator to be a Valuation Date. 

58149.19 

5 

ARTICLE
      II  

        ELIGIBILITY
      AND
      PARTICIPATION   

2.1             Annual
      Participation  .  Each individual who is an Eligible
      Employee as of the first day of a Plan Year and is employed by a Participating
      Company before the beginning of such Plan Year shall be eligible to defer a
      portion of such Eligible Employee s Base Salary, and thereby to actively
      participate in the Plan for such Plan Year.  Such individual s
      participation shall become effective as of the first day of such Plan Year,
      provided that the Eligible Employee properly and timely completes the election
      procedures described in Section 2.2. 

2.2             Election
      Procedures  .  Each Eligible Employee may elect to defer a
      portion of such Eligible Employee s Base Salary, and thereby become an active
      Participant for a Plan Year, by delivering a completed Deferral Election and
      an
      Investment Election to the Plan Administrator by the applicable Election
      Deadline for such Plan Year.  Such an election shall be effective only
      if the individual is actively employed as an Eligible Employee at the time
      the
      individual delivers the completed Deferral Election and Investment Election
      to
      the Plan Administrator.  The Plan Administrator may also require the
      Eligible Employee to complete other forms and provide other data, as a condition
      of participation in the Plan. 

2.3             Cessation
      of
      Eligibility  .  An Eligible Employee s active
      participation in the Plan shall terminate, and the Eligible Employee shall
      not
      be eligible to make any additional Deferral Contributions, for any portion
      of a
      Plan Year following the date the Eligible Employee s employment with BellSouth
      and all Participating Companies terminates (unless such individual is reemployed
      as an Eligible Employee later in such Plan Year).  In addition, an
      individual who actively participated in the Plan during prior Plan Years but
      who
      is not an Eligible Employee or does not complete the election procedures, for
      a
      subsequent Plan Year, shall cease active participation in the Plan for such
      subsequent Plan Year.  If an individual s active participation in the
      Plan ends, such individual shall remain an inactive Participant in the Plan
      until the earlier of (i) the date the full amount of such individual s Accounts
      is distributed from the Plan, or (ii) the date the individual again becomes
      an
      Eligible Employee and recommences active participation in the
      Plan.  During the period of time that an individual is an inactive
      Participant in the Plan, such individual s Accounts shall continue to be
      credited with earnings as provided in the Plan. 

2.4             Limitations
      on New
      Elections  .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
      herein, (i) after December 31, 2006, no Deferral Elections will be permitted
      under the Plan, and (ii) after December 31, 2005, no Investment Elections
      into the Stock Unit Option may be made under the Plan. 

58149.19 

6   

ARTICLE
      III  

        PARTICIPANTS 
ACCOUNTS;
      DEFERRAL CONTRIBUTIONS   

3.1             Participants 
      Accounts   .  

(a)             Establishment
      of
      Accounts  .   The
      Plan Administrator
      shall establish and maintain one or more Accounts on behalf of each Participant
      for each Plan Year for which the Participant makes Deferral
      Contributions.  The Plan Administrator shall credit each Participant s
      Account with the Participant s Deferral Contributions for such Plan Year and
      earnings attributable thereto, and shall maintain such Account until the value
      thereof has been distributed to or on behalf of such Participant or his
      Beneficiary. 

(b)             Nature
      of Contributions and
      Accounts  .  The amounts credited to a Participant s
      Accounts shall be represented solely by bookkeeping entries.  Except
      as provided in Article VII, no monies or other assets shall actually be set
      aside for such Participant, and all payments to a Participant under the Plan
      shall be made from the general assets of the Participating
      Companies. 

(c)             Several
      Liabilities  .  Each Participating Company shall be
      severally (and not jointly) liable for the payment of benefits under the Plan
      under Deferral Elections executed by Eligible Employees with, and while employed
      by, such Participating Company. 

(d)             General
      Creditors  .  Any assets which may be acquired by a
      Participating Company in anticipation of its obligations under the Plan shall
      be
      part of the general assets of such Participating Company.  A
      Participating Company s obligation to pay benefits under the Plan constitutes a
      mere promise of such Participating Company to pay such benefits, and a
      Participant or Beneficiary shall be and remain no more than an unsecured,
      general creditor of such Participating Company. 

3.2             Deferral
      Contributions  .  Each Eligible Employee may irrevocably
      elect to have Deferral Contributions made on his or her behalf for a Plan Year
      by completing in a timely manner a Deferral Election and an Investment Election,
      and following other election procedures as provided in Section
      2.2.  Subject to any modifications, additions or exceptions that the
      Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, deems necessary, appropriate or
      helpful and that are made in compliance with Section 409A, the following terms
      shall apply to such Deferral Elections: 

(a)             Effective
      Date  .  A Deferral Election made by a Participant shall
      be effective beginning with the first regular, periodic paycheck earned and
      paid
      with respect to the Participant in such Plan Year.  To be effective, a
      Participant s Deferral Election must be made by the Election
      Deadline.  If an Eligible Employee fails to deliver a Deferral
      Election, or to complete any of the other requisite election procedures for
      a
      Plan Year, in a timely manner, the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to have
      elected not to participate in the Plan for that Plan Year. 

58149.19 

7 

(b)             Term  .  Each
      Deferral Election for a Plan Year that is made by an Eligible Employee shall
      remain in effect with respect to the specified portion of all Base Salary paid
      or payable during such Plan Year, but shall not apply to any subsequent Plan
      Year. 

(c)             Deferral
      Election
      Amount  .  Each Eligible Employee s Deferral Election for
      a Plan Year shall specify a whole percentage of his or her Compensation to
      be
      deferred from his or her Base Salary earned and paid for such
      year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan Administrator, in its
      sole discretion, may allow an Eligible Employee to complete a Deferral Election
      specifying either (i) a whole dollar amount of his or her Base Salary to be
      deferred, with such amount being expressed in increments of $1,000 (or such
      other increments as the Plan Administrator may determine), or (ii) a percentage
      of his or her Base Salary earned and paid or payable for each payroll period,
      with the amount of such deferral to vary as the Eligible Employee s Base Salary
      changes.  The maximum amount of Base Salary that an Eligible Employee
      may defer for any Plan Year shall be fifteen percent (15%) of the Eligible
      Employee s Compensation for such Plan Year rounded up to the next highest
      thousand dollars.  The total amount elected to be deferred shall be
      withheld from such Eligible Employee s regular, periodic paychecks of Base
      Salary in substantially equal installments (except as contemplated in clause
      (ii) above) throughout the Plan Year.  If any election would result in
      a fractional dollar amount to be withheld, the Plan Administrator, in its sole
      discretion, may determine that such amount will be rounded up to the next
      highest whole dollar.  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or a
      Deferral Election to the contrary, however, the amount withheld from any payment
      of Base Salary shall be reduced automatically, if necessary, so that it does
      not
      exceed the amount of such payment net of all withholding, allotments and
      deductions, other than any reduction pursuant to such Deferral
      Election.  No amounts shall be withheld during any period an
      individual ceases to receive Base Salary as an actively employed Eligible
      Employee for any reason during the Plan Year except that, in the case of an
      individual on an approved paid leave of absence as an Eligible Employee
      (including a paid leave of absence under a short term disability plan of a
      Participating Company), amounts shall be withheld from such leave of absence
      payments and otherwise treated in the same manner as if such payments
      constituted Base Salary under the Plan.  No adjustment shall be made
      in the amount to be withheld from any subsequent payment of Base Salary for
      a
      Plan Year to compensate for any missed or reduced withholding amounts
      above. 

(d)             Revocation  .  Once
      made for a Plan Year, a Participant may not revoke a Deferral Election for
      such
      Plan Year. 

(e)             Crediting
      of Deferred
      Compensation  .  The Plan Administrator shall credit to
      each Participant s Account for a Plan Year, as of the first day of such Plan
      Year, the entire amount of the Participant s Deferral Contributions reflected in
      his or her Deferral Election for such Plan Year; provided, that the
      Participant s Account shall be automatically adjusted, retroactively to the
      first day of such Plan Year, to reflect the amount of Deferral Contributions
      actually made from Base Salary (or pursuant to Section 3.4, if applicable)
      during the Plan Year if for any reason the entire amount of the Participant s
      Deferral Contributions so reflected is not made. 

58149.19 

8 

3.3             Deferral
      Elections and
      Multiple Participating Companies  .  Any Deferral Election
      which is timely executed and delivered to the Plan Administrator shall be
      effective to defer Base Salary earned by the Participant from the Participating
      Company employing such Participant at the time of the Participant s election or
      any other Participating Company employing such Participant during the Plan
      Year
      for which the Deferral Election is effective.  In particular, a
      Participant (i) who timely executes and delivers a Deferral Election while
      employed by one Participating Company and subsequently transfers to another
      Participating Company, or (ii) who terminates employment and subsequently
      becomes employed by another Participating Company, shall have the Base Salary
      that is paid or payable to such Participant by both Participating Companies
      reduced under the terms of the Deferral Election and the Plan as if the transfer
      or termination and reemployment had not occurred; provided that, as provided
      in
      Section 3.2(c), no amounts of Base Salary shall be withheld attributable to
      any
      portion of the Plan Year during which such Participant is not receiving Base
      Salary as an Eligible Employee of a Participating Company. 

3.4             Vesting  .  A
      Participant shall at all times be fully vested in the Participant s Deferral
      Contributions and all investment earnings attributable thereto. 

3.5             Debiting
      of
      Distributions  .   As of
      each Valuation
      Date, the Plan Administrator shall debit each Participant s Account for any
      amount distributed from such Account since the immediately preceding Valuation
      Date. 

58149.19 

9 

ARTICLE
      IV  

        DETERMINATION
      AND CREDITING
      OF INVESTMENT RETURN   

4.1             General
      Investment
      Parameters  .  The rate of return credited to each
      Participant s Account shall be determined on the basis of the Investment
      Option(s) selected by the Participant.  The terms of this selection
      process and the manner in which investment return is credited are set forth
      in
      this Article IV. 

4.2             Participant
      Direction of
      Deemed Investments  .  Each Participant generally may
      direct the manner in which his or her Deferral Contributions for each Plan
      Year
      shall be deemed invested in and between the Stock Unit Option and/or the
      Interest Income Option, in accordance with the following terms: 

(a)             Nature
      of Participant
      Direction  .  A Participant s election of the Stock Unit
      Option and/or Interest Income Option shall be for the sole purpose of
      determining the rate of return to be credited to such Participant s Account for
      such Plan Year, and shall not be treated or interpreted in any manner whatsoever
      as a requirement or direction to actually invest assets in Company Stock, an
      interest income fund or any other investment media.  The Plan, as an
      unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation plan, at no time shall have any
      actual investment of assets relative to the benefits or Accounts
      hereunder. 

(b)             Investment
      of
      Contributions  .  In conjunction with completing a
      Deferral Election for a Plan Year, an Eligible Employee shall complete an
      Investment Election prescribing the whole percentages of such Eligible
      Employee s Deferral Contributions for such Plan Year to be deemed to be invested
      in the Stock Unit Option and/or the Interest Income Option; provided, that
      the
      combined percentages allocated to the Stock Unit Option and the Interest Income
      Option shall equal one hundred percent (100%).  Notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary herein, no Investment Elections into the Stock Unit
      Option may be made after December 31, 2005. 

(c)             Investment
      of Existing
      Account Balances  .  A Participant may not make an
      Investment Election changing the percentage of an existing Account balance
      that
      will be deemed to be invested in the Stock Unit Option and/or the Interest
      Income Option.  Once an Investment Election is made with respect to an
      Account, it shall continue to apply with respect to such Account until all
      amounts in such Account are distributed. 

(d)             Investment
      Subaccounts  .  For the sole purpose of tracking a
      Participant s Investment Elections and calculating investment earnings
      attributable to a Participant s Account for a Plan Year pursuant to the terms of
      this Article IV, the Plan Administrator shall establish and maintain for
      such Participant for such Plan Year a Stock Unit Subaccount and an Interest
      Income Subaccount, as necessary, the total of which shall equal such
      Participant s Account for such Plan Year. 

58149.19 

10 

4.3             Stock
      Unit
      Option  . 

(a)             Stock
      Unit
      Subaccount  .  To the extent an Eligible Employee makes an
      Investment Election in accordance with Section 4.2 to have all or a portion
      of
      his or her Deferral Contributions for a Plan Year deemed to be invested in
      the
      Stock Unit Option, the Participant s Stock Unit Subaccount shall be credited
      (subject to the adjustment described in subsection 3.2(e), if applicable),
      as of
      the first day of such Plan Year, with a number of Stock Units equal to the
      number of full and fractional shares of Company Stock that could have been
      purchased with such portion of the Eligible Employee s Deferral Contributions
      elected for such Plan Year at the average of the high and low sales prices
      of
      one share of Company Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the last Business
      Day of each of the three (3) calendar months immediately preceding the first
      day
      of such Plan Year. 

(b)             Cash
      Dividends  .  As of each date on which a cash dividend has
      been paid on Company Stock, the number of Stock Units credited to a
      Participant s Stock Unit Subaccount for each Plan Year shall be increased by a
      number of additional Stock Units equal to the quotient of (i) the amount of
      dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares of Company Stock
      equivalent to the number of Stock Units credited to such subaccount as of such
      dividend payment date, divided by (ii) the average of the daily high and low
      sales prices of one share of Company Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for
      the period of five (5) Business Days ending on such dividend payment date (or
      the period of five (5) Business Days ending on the immediately preceding
      Business Day if such date was not a Business Day). 

(c)             Adjustments  .  In
      the event of any change in outstanding shares of Company Stock, by
      reclassification, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spinoff, combination,
      exchange of shares, stock split, reverse stock split or otherwise, or in the
      event of the payment of a stock dividend on Company Stock, or in the event
      of
      any other increase or decrease in the number of outstanding shares of Company
      Stock, other than the issuance of shares for value received by BellSouth or
      the
      redemption of shares for value, the Plan Administrator shall adjust the number
      and/or form of Stock Units in the manner it deems appropriate in its reasonable
      judgment to reflect such event, including substituting or adding publicly traded
      shares of companies other than the Company as a basis for determining Stock
      Units.  The Plan Administrator similarly shall make such adjustments
      as it deems are appropriate in its reasonable judgment in the form, including
      the basis of measurement, of Stock Units in the event all shares of Company
      Stock cease for any reason to be outstanding or to be actively traded on the
      New
      York Stock Exchange.  In the event the Plan Administrator determines
      in its reasonable judgment that it would not be possible to appropriately
      reflect an event under this paragraph (c) by adjusting the number and/or form
      of
      Stock Units, the Plan Administrator shall establish a special Valuation Date
      appropriate to such event for all Stock Unit Subaccounts and shall cause such
      subaccounts, as so valued, automatically to be converted into Interest Income
      Subaccounts, which thereafter shall be subject to Section 4.4. 

58149.19 

11 

4.4             Interest
      Income
      Option  . 

(a)             Interest
      Income
      Subaccount  .  To the extent that an Eligible Employee
      makes an Investment Election in accordance with Section 4.2 to have all or
      a
      portion of his or her Deferral Contributions for a Plan Year deemed to be
      invested in the Interest Income Option, the Participant s Interest Income
      Subaccount shall be credited (subject to the adjustment described in subsection
      3.2(e), if applicable), as of the first day of such Plan Year, with such portion
      of the Eligible Employee s Deferral Contributions elected for such Plan
      Year. 

(b)             Crediting
      of Deemed
      Interest  .  As of each Valuation Date, the Plan
      Administrator shall credit a Participant s Interest Income Subaccounts with the
      amount of earnings applicable thereto for the period since the immediately
      preceding Valuation Date.  Such crediting of earnings for each
      Interest Income Subaccount shall be effected, as follows: 

(i)      
  Amount
                Invested  .  The Plan Administrator shall determine
                the amount of (A) in the case of an Interest Income Subaccount established
                in connection with a Deferral Election for the Plan Year, such
                Participant s Deferral Contributions credited to such Participant s
                Interest Income Subaccount for such Plan Year; and (B) in the case
                of an
                Interest Income Subaccount for a prior Plan Year, the balance of
                such
                Participant's Interest Income Subaccount as of the immediately preceding
                Valuation Date, minus the amount distributed from such Participant s
                Interest Income Subaccount since the immediately preceding Valuation
                Date;
                and 

(ii)         Determination
                of
                Amount  .  The Plan Administrator then shall apply
                the Credited Interest Rate for such Plan Year to such Participant's
                adjusted Interest Income Subaccount (as determined in subparagraph
                (i)
                hereof), and the total amount of investment earnings resulting therefrom
                shall be credited to such Participant's Interest Income Subaccount
                as of
                such Valuation Date. 

4.5             Good
      Faith Valuation
      Binding  .  In determining the value of Accounts, the Plan
      Administrator shall exercise its best judgment, and all such determinations
      of
      value (in the absence of bad faith) shall be binding upon all Participants
      and
      their Beneficiaries. 

4.6             Errors
      and Omissions in
      Accounts  .  If an error or omission is discovered in the
      Account of a Participant or in the amount of a Participant's Deferral
      Contributions, the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall cause
      appropriate, equitable adjustments to be made as soon as administratively
      practicable following the discovery of such error or omission. 

58149.19 

12 

ARTICLE
      V  

        PAYMENT
      OF ACCOUNT
      BALANCES   

5.1             Benefit
      Amounts  . 

(a)             Benefit
      Entitlement  .  As the benefit under the Plan, each
      Participant (or Beneficiary) shall be entitled to receive the total amount
      of
      the Participant s Accounts, determined as of the most recent Valuation Date, and
      payable at such times and in such forms as described in this
      Article V. 

(b)             Valuation
      of
      Benefit  .  For purposes hereof, each Account of a
      Participant as of any Valuation Date shall be equal to (i) the total amount
      of all of such Participant s Deferral Contributions credited thereto; plus
      (ii) all deemed investment earnings attributable thereto; minus
      (iii) the total amount of all benefit payments previously made
      therefrom. 

(c)             Conversion
      of Stock Units
      into Dollars  .  For purposes of converting some or all of
      a Participant s Stock Units into a dollar amount in valuing the Participant s
      Accounts as of any Valuation Date, the value of each Stock Unit shall be equal
      to the average of the high and low sales prices of one share of Company Stock
      on
      the New York Stock Exchange for the last Business Day of each of the three
      (3)
      months of the calendar quarter most recently completed on or prior to such
      Valuation Date. 

5.2             Elections
      of Timing and
      Form  .  In conjunction with, and at the time of,
      completing a Deferral Election for each Plan Year, an Eligible Employee shall
      select the timing and form of the distribution that will apply to the Account
      for such Eligible Employee s Deferral Contributions (and deemed investment
      earnings attributable thereto) for such Plan Year.  The terms
      applicable to this selection process are as follows: 

(a)             Timing  .  For
      a Participant s Account for each Plan Year, such Participant may elect that
      distribution will be made or commence as of any January 1 following the
      Plan Year of deferral; provided, a Participant may not select a benefit payment
      or commencement date for such Account that is (i) earlier than the second
      January 1 following the end of the Plan Year for which the deferral is made,
      or
      (ii) later than the twentieth January 1 following the end of the Plan Year
      of deferral. 

(b)             Form
      of
      Distribution  .  For a Participant s Account for each Plan
      Year, such Participant may elect that distribution will be paid in one of the
      following forms: 

(i) 

a
                  single lump-sum cash payment; or 

(ii) 

substantially
                equal annual installments (adjusted for investment earnings between
                payments in the manner described in Article IV) over a period of two
                (2) to ten (10) years. 

58149.19

13 

(c)             Multiple
      Selections  .  An Eligible Employee may select a different
      benefit payment or commencement date and/or a different form of distribution
      with respect to his or her Account for each Plan Year.  For ease of
      administration, the Plan Administrator may combine Accounts and subaccounts
      of a
      Participant to which the same benefit payment/commencement date and the same
      form of distribution apply. 

5.3             Benefit
      Payments to a
      Participant  . 

(a)             Timing  .  A
      Participant shall receive or begin receiving a distribution of each of his
      or
      her Accounts as of the earlier of (i) the January 1 selected by such
      Participant with respect to each such Account pursuant to the terms of
      Section 5.2(a); or (ii) the January 1 immediately following the
      date that such Participant s employment with BellSouth and all Affiliates ends
      for any reason.  An amount payable  as of  any January 1 shall be
      made as soon as practicable after such January 1 and, unless extenuating
      circumstances arise, no later than January 31. 

(b)             Form
      of
      Distribution  .  A Participant shall receive or begin
      receiving a distribution of each of his or her Accounts in cash in the form
      selected by such Participant with respect to such Account pursuant to the terms
      of Section 5.2(b). 

(c)             Valuation
      of Single Lump-Sum
      Payments  .  The amount of a Participant s single lump-sum
      distribution of any of his or her Accounts as of any applicable January 1
      shall be equal to the value of such Account as of the Valuation Date immediately
      preceding the date on which such distribution is paid. 

(d)             Valuation
      of Installment
      Payments  .  For purposes of determining the amount of any
      installment payment to be paid as of a January 1 from an Account, the
      following shall apply: 

(i)   
 for
                any amount of such
                Account attributable to an Interest Income Subaccount as of the
                immediately preceding Valuation Date, such amount shall be divided
                by the
                number of remaining installments to be paid from such Account (including
                the current installment); and 

(ii)      for
                any portion
                of such Account attributable to a Stock Unit Subaccount as of the
                immediately preceding Valuation Date, the total number of Stock Units
                constituting such portion shall be divided by the number of remaining
                installments to be paid from such Account (including the current
                installment), and the resulting number of Stock Units shall be converted
                into a dollar amount (pursuant to the terms of Section 5.1(c)) as of
                such Valuation Date. 

(e)             One-Time
      Modification of
      Certain Elections  .  Each active executive officer of
      BellSouth who is a Participant in this Plan and who is eligible to participate
      in the BellSouth Officer Compensation Deferral Plan (the  Officer Plan ) during
      the 2002 Plan Year, may make a one-time election to delay the payment (or
      commencement) of any of his or her Accounts hereunder, and may make a one-time
      election to increase the number of payments applicable to his or her Accounts,
      as and to the extent provided in the Officer Plan. 

58149.19 

14 

(f)              Distributions
      to Section
      409A Specified Employees   .   Notwithstanding
      any provision of this Plan to the contrary, with respect to any Participant
      who
      is a  specified employee  for purposes of Section 409A, no payment of any
      portion of such Participant s benefit amount which is occasioned by the
      Participant s separation from service shall be made before the date that is six
      (6) months after the date of such Participant s separation from
      service. 

5.4          Death
      Benefits  . 

(a)             General  .  If
      a Participant dies before receiving the entire amount of his or her benefit
      under the Plan, such Participant s Beneficiary shall receive distribution of
      amounts remaining in the Participant s Accounts in the form, as elected by the
      Participant on a Beneficiary designation form described in Section 5.5, of
      either: 

(i)      a
                single lump-sum cash payment of the entire balance in the Participant s
                Accounts as of the January 1 immediately following the date of the
                Participant s death; or 

(ii)      (A)
                for
                Accounts with respect to which distribution has not commenced under
                Section 5.2 at the time of the Participant s death, substantially
                equal annual installments (adjusted for investment earnings between
                payments in the manner described in Article IV) over a period of two
                (2) to ten (10) years,  commencing as of the January 1
                immediately following the Participant s death; and (B) for Accounts
                with respect to which distribution has commenced in the form of
                installments described in Section 5.2(b)(ii) at the time of the
                Participant s death, continuation of such installment payment
                schedule. 

An
      amount
      payable  as of  any January 1 shall be made as soon as practicable after
      such January 1 and, unless extenuating circumstances arise, no later than
      January 31. 

(b)             Valuation  .  The
      valuation rules described in subsections 5.3(c) and 5.3(d) shall apply to
      payments described in this Section 5.4. 

5.5          Beneficiary
      Designation  . 

(a)             General  .  A
      Participant shall designate a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries for all of his or
      her
      Accounts by completing the form prescribed for this purpose for the Plan by
      the
      Plan Administrator and submitting such form as instructed by the Plan
      Administrator.  Once a Beneficiary designation is made, it shall
      continue to apply until and unless such Participant makes and submits a new
      Beneficiary designation form for this Plan; provided that, after December 31,
      2007, no changes may be made to the form or timing of payment of death benefits
      on a previously submitted Beneficiary Designation (although the Beneficiary(ies)
      designated may be changed consistent with rules prescribed by the Plan
      Administrator).  Prior to January 1, 2008, any such changes may be
      made only to the extent permitted by and consistent with
      Section 409A. 

58149.19  

15 

(b)             No
      Designation or Designee
      Dead or Missing  .  In the event that: 

(i)      a
                  Participant dies without designating a
                  Beneficiary; 

(ii)      the
                Beneficiary designated by a Participant is not surviving or in existence
                when payments are to be made or commence to such designee under the
                Plan,
                and no contingent Beneficiary, surviving or in existence, has been
                designated; or 

(iii)      the
                Beneficiary designated by a Participant cannot be located by the
                Plan
                Administrator within 1 year from the date benefit payments are to
                be made
                or commence to such designee; 

then,
      in
      any of such events, the Beneficiary of such Participant shall be the
      Participant's surviving spouse, if any can then be located, and if not, the
      estate of the Participant, and the entire balance in the Participant s Accounts
      shall be paid to such Beneficiary in the form of a single lump-sum cash payment
      described in Section 5.4(a)(i). 

(c)             Death
      of
      Beneficiary  .  If a Beneficiary who survives the
      Participant, and to whom payment of Plan benefits commences, dies before
      complete distribution of the Participant s Accounts, the entire balance in such
      Accounts shall be paid to the estate of such Beneficiary in the form of a single
      lump-sum cash payment as of the January 1 immediately following such
      Beneficiary s death.  An amount payable  as of  any January 1
      shall be made as soon as practicable after such January 1 and, unless
      extenuating circumstances arise, no later than January 31.  The
      valuation rules described in subsection 5.3(c) shall apply to any payments
      described in this subsection 5.5(c). 

5.6          Taxes  .  If
      the whole or any part of any Participant's or Beneficiary's benefit hereunder
      shall become subject to any estate, inheritance, income, employment or other
      tax
      which a Participating Company shall be required to pay or withhold, the
      Participating Company shall have the full power and authority to withhold and
      pay such tax out of any monies or other property in its hand for the account
      of
      the Participant or Beneficiary whose interests hereunder are so
      affected.  Prior to making any payment, the Participating Company may
      require such releases or other documents from any lawful taxing authority as
      it
      shall deem necessary.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such
      withholding will be made with respect to a benefit under the Plan that is
      subject to Section 409A unless (i) such benefit is currently distributable
      to
      the Participant, (ii) such benefit is includible in the gross income of the
      Participant due to a violation of Section 409A, or (iii) such withholding is
      for
      purposes of FICA tax or federal income tax with respect to such
      benefit. 

58149.19 

16 

ARTICLE
      VI  

        CLAIMS   

6.1          Initial
      Claim  .  Claims for benefits under the Plan may be filed
      with the Plan Administrator on forms or in such other written documents, as
      the
      Plan Administrator may prescribe.  The Plan Administrator shall
      furnish to the claimant written notice of the disposition of a claim within
      90
      days after the application therefor is filed.  In the event the claim
      is denied, the notice of the disposition of the claim shall provide the specific
      reasons for the denial, citations of the pertinent provisions of the Plan,
      and,
      where appropriate, an explanation as to how the claimant can perfect the claim
      and/or submit the claim for review. 

6.2          Appeal  .  Any
      Participant or Beneficiary who has been denied a benefit shall be entitled,
      upon
      request to the Plan Administrator, to appeal the denial of his or her
      claim.  The claimant (or his or her duly authorized representative)
      may review pertinent documents related to the Plan and in the Plan
      Administrator's possession in order to prepare the appeal.  The
      request for review, together with written statement of the claimant's position,
      must be filed with the Plan Administrator no later than 60 days after receipt
      of
      the written notification of denial of a claim provided for in Section
      6.1.  The Plan Administrator's decision shall be made within 60 days
      following the filing of the request for review.  If unfavorable, the
      notice of the decision shall explain the reasons for denial and indicate the
      provisions of the Plan or other documents used to arrive at the
      decision. 

6.3          Satisfaction
      of
      Claims  .  The payment of the benefits due under the Plan
      to a Participant or Beneficiary shall discharge the Participating Company s
      obligations under the Plan, and neither the Participant nor the Beneficiary
      shall have any further rights under the Plan upon receipt by the appropriate
      person of all benefits.  In addition, (i) if any payment is made to a
      Participant or Beneficiary with respect to benefits described in the Plan from
      any source arranged by BellSouth or a Participating Company including, without
      limitation, any fund, trust, insurance arrangement, bond, security device,
      or
      any similar arrangement, such payment shall be deemed to be in full and complete
      satisfaction of the obligation of the Participating Company under the Plan
      to
      the extent of such payment as if such payment had been made directly by such
      Participating Company; and (ii) if any payment from a source described in
      clause (i) shall be made, in whole or in part, prior to the time payment would
      be made under the terms of the Plan, such payment shall be deemed to satisfy
      such Participating Company s obligation to pay Plan benefits beginning with the
      benefit which would next become payable under the Plan and continuing in the
      order in which benefits are so payable, until the payment from such other source
      is fully recovered.  The Plan Administrator or such Participating
      Company, as a condition to making any payment, may require such Participant
      or
      Beneficiary to execute a receipt and release therefor in such form as shall
      be
      determined by the Plan Administrator or the Participating Company.  If
      receipt and release is required but the Participant or Beneficiary (as
      applicable) does not provide such receipt and release in a timely enough manner
      to permit a timely distribution in accordance with the general timing of
      distribution provisions in the Plan, the payment of any affected distribution
      may be delayed until the Plan Administrator or the Participating Company
      receives a proper receipt and release. 

58149.19 

17 

ARTICLE
      VII  

        SOURCE
      OF
      FUNDS   

Each
      Participating Company shall
      provide the benefits described in the Plan from its general
      assets.  However, to the extent that funds in one or more trusts, or
      other funding arrangement(s), allocable to the benefits payable under the Plan
      are available, such assets may be used to pay benefits under the
      Plan.  If such assets are not sufficient or are not used to pay all
      benefits due under the Plan, then the appropriate Participating Company shall
      have the obligation, and the Participant or Beneficiary, who is due such
      benefits, shall look to such Participating Company to provide such benefits.
      No
      Participant or Beneficiary shall have any interest in the assets of any trust,
      or other funding arrangement, or in the general assets of the Participating
      Companies other than as a general, unsecured creditor.  Accordingly, a
      Participating Company shall not grant a security interest in the assets held
      by
      the trust in favor of the Participants, Beneficiaries or any
      creditor. 

58149.19 

18 

ARTICLE
      VIII  

        PLAN
      ADMINISTRATION   

8.1          Action
      by the Plan
      Administrator  . 

(a)             Individual
      Administrator  .  If the Plan Administrator is an
      individual, such individual shall act and record his or her actions in
      writing.  Any matter concerning specifically such individual s own
      benefit or rights hereunder shall be determined by the Board or its
      designee. 

(b)             Administrative
      Committee  .  If the Plan Administrator is a committee,
      action of the Plan Administrator may be taken with or without a meeting of
      committee members; provided, action shall be taken only upon the vote or other
      affirmative expression of a majority of the committee members qualified to
      vote
      with respect to such action.  If a member of the committee is a
      Participant or Beneficiary, such member shall not participate in any decision
      which solely affects his or her own benefit under the Plan.  For
      purposes of administering the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall choose a
      secretary who shall keep minutes of the committee's proceedings and all records
      and documents pertaining to the administration of the Plan.  The
      secretary may execute any certificate or any other written direction on behalf
      of the Plan Administrator. 

8.2          Rights
      and Duties of the
      Plan Administrator  .  The Plan Administrator shall
      administer the Plan and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish that
      purpose, including (but not limited to) the following: 

(a)           to
      construe, interpret and administer the Plan; 

(b)           to
      make determinations required by the Plan, and to maintain records regarding
      Participants  and Beneficiaries  benefits hereunder; 

(c)           to
      compute and certify to Participating Companies the amount and kinds of benefits
      payable to Participants and Beneficiaries, and to determine the time and manner
      in which such benefits are to be paid; 

(d)           to
      authorize all disbursements by a Participating Company pursuant to the
      Plan; 

(e)           to
      maintain all the necessary records of the administration of the
      Plan; 

(f)        
         to make and publish such rules and procedures for the
      regulation of the Plan as are not inconsistent with the terms
      hereof; 

(g)           to
      delegate to other individuals or entities from time to time the performance
      of
      any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder; and 

58149.19 

19 

(h)           to
      hire agents, accountants, actuaries, consultants and legal counsel to assist
      in
      operating and administering the Plan. 

The
      Plan
      Administrator shall have the exclusive right to construe and interpret the
      Plan,
      to decide all questions of eligibility for benefits and to determine the amount
      of such benefits, and its decisions on such matters shall be final and
      conclusive on all parties. 

8.3          Bond;
      Compensation  .  The Plan Administrator and (if
      applicable) its members shall serve as such without bond and without
      compensation for services hereunder.  All expenses of the Plan
      Administrator shall be paid by the Participating Companies. 

8.4          Post-Merger
      Plan
      Administration   .   Notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary in this Plan, following the Merger, responsibility
      for
      administration of the Plan shall be determined under the terms of the Rabbi
      Trust Agreements.  As provided in the Rabbi Trust Agreements, claims
      for benefits, appeals of benefit denials and Plan interpretations shall be
      made
      by a  Trust Contractor  or  Independent Fiduciary  (as such terms are defined in
      the Rabbi Trust Agreements), as the case may be.  At any time during
      which a Trust Contractor or Independent Fiduciary shall, under the terms of
      the
      Rabbi Trust Agreements, have such Plan administrative responsibilities, the
      term
 Plan Administrator  as used in this Plan shall refer to such Trust Contractor
      or Independent Fiduciary. 

58149.19 

20 

ARTICLE
      IX  

        AMENDMENT
      AND
      TERMINATION   

9.1          Amendments  .  Subject
      to Section 9.3, the Board shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to
      amend the Plan in whole or in part at any time and from time to
      time.  In addition, the Plan Administrator shall have the right, in
      its sole discretion, to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time so
      long
      as such amendment is not of a material nature.  Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, no such action shall accelerate or postpone the time or schedule
      of
      payment of any Plan benefits except as may be permitted under Section 409A
      and regulations thereunder. 

9.2      
         Termination
      of
      Plan  .  Subject to Section 9.3, BellSouth reserves the
      right to discontinue and terminate the Plan at any time, for any
      reason.  Any action to terminate the Plan shall be taken by the Board
      and such termination shall be binding on all Participating Companies,
      Participants and Beneficiaries. 

9.3          Limitation
      on
      Authority  .  Except as otherwise provided in this
      Section 9.3, no contractual right created by and under any Deferral
      Election made prior to the effective date of any amendment or termination shall
      be abrogated by any amendment or termination of the Plan, absent the express,
      written consent of the Participant who made the Deferral Election. 

(a)             Plan
      Amendments  .  The limitation on authority described in
      this Section 9.3 shall not apply to any amendment of the Plan which is
      reasonably necessary, in the opinion of counsel, (i) to preserve the
      intended tax consequences of the Plan described in Sections 10.1 and 10.10,
      (ii) to preserve the status of the Plan as an unfunded, nonqualified
      deferred compensation plan for the benefit of a select group of management
      or
      highly compensated employees and not subject to the requirements of Part 2,
      Part 3 and Part 4 of Title I of ERISA, or (iii) to guard
      against other material adverse impacts on Participants and Beneficiaries, and
      which, in the opinion of counsel, is drafted primarily to preserve such intended
      consequences, or status, or to guard against such adverse impacts. 

(b)             Plan
      Termination  .  The limitation on authority described in
      this Section 9.3 shall not apply to any termination of the Plan as the result
      of
      a determination that, in the opinion of counsel, (i) Participants and
      Beneficiaries generally are subject to federal income taxation (including but
      not limited to taxation, penalty taxes, interest or other adverse tax
      consequences under Section 409A) on Deferral Contributions or other amounts
      in
      Participant Accounts prior to the time of distribution of amounts under the
      Plan, or (ii) the Plan is generally subject to Part 2, Part 3 or Part 4 of
      Title
      in of ERISA, but in either case only if such termination is reasonably
      necessary, in the opinion of counsel, to guard against material adverse impacts
      on Participants and Beneficiaries, or BellSouth or Participating
      Companies.  Upon such termination, the entire amount in each
      Participant s Accounts shall be distributed in a single lump-sum distribution as
      soon as practicable after the date on which the Plan is terminated; provided,
      no
      benefit under the Plan that is subject to Section 409A shall be distributed
      prior to the earliest date such distribution would be permitted under Section
      409A.  In such event, the Plan Administrator shall declare that the
      date of termination (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the last Business
      Day immediately preceding such day) shall be a Valuation Date and all
      distributions shall be made based on the value of the Accounts as of such
      Valuation Date. 

58149.19 

21 

(c)             Opinions
      of
      Counsel  .  In each case in which an opinion of counsel is
      contemplated in this Section 9.3, any such opinion shall be in writing and
      delivered to the Board, rendered by a nationally recognized law firm selected
      or
      approved by the Board. 

58149.19 

22 

ARTICLE
      X  

        MISCELLANEOUS   

10.1        Taxation  .  It
      is the intention of BellSouth that the benefits payable hereunder shall not
      be
      deductible by the Participating Companies nor taxable for federal income tax
      purposes to Participants or Beneficiaries until such benefits are paid by the
      Participating Company to such Participants or Beneficiaries.  When
      such benefits are so paid, it is the intention of the Participating Companies
      that they shall be deductible by the Participating Companies under Code Section
      162. 

10.2        Withholding  .  All
      payments made to a Participant or Beneficiary hereunder shall be reduced by
      any
      applicable federal, state or local withholding or other taxes or charges as
      may
      be required under applicable law. 

10.3        No
      Employment
      Contract  .  Nothing herein contained is intended to be
      nor shall be construed as constituting a contract or other arrangement between
      a
      Participating Company and any Participant to the effect that the Participant
      will be employed by the Participating Company or continue to be an employee
      for
      any specific period of time. 

10.4        Headings  .  The
      headings of the various articles and sections in the Plan are solely for
      convenience and shall not be relied upon in construing any provisions
      hereof.  Any reference to a section shall refer to a section of the
      Plan unless specified otherwise. 

10.5  
           Gender
      and
      Number  .  Use of any gender in the Plan will be deemed to
      include all genders when appropriate, and use of the singular number will be
      deemed to include the plural when appropriate, and vice versa in each
      instance. 

10.6        Assignment
      of
      Benefits  .  The right of a Participant or Beneficiary to
      receive payments under the Plan may not be anticipated, alienated, sold,
      assigned, transferred, pledged, encumbered, attached or garnished by creditors
      of such Participant or Beneficiary, except by will or by the laws of descent
      and
      distribution and then only to the extent permitted under the terms of the
      Plan. 

10.7        Legally
      Incompetent  .  The Plan Administrator, in its sole
      discretion, may direct that payment be made to an incompetent or disabled
      person, for whatever reason, to the guardian of such person or to the person
      having custody of such person, without further liability on the part of a
      Participating Company for the amount of such payment to the person on whose
      account such payment is made. 

10.8        Entire
      Document  .  This Plan document sets forth the entire Plan
      and all rights and limits.  Except for a formal amendment hereto, no
      document shall modify the Plan or create any additional rights or
      benefits. 

58149.19 

23 

10.9        Governing
      Law  .  The Plan shall be construed, administered and
      governed in all respects in accordance with applicable federal law (including
      ERISA) and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, in accordance with
      the
      laws of the State of Georgia.  If any provisions of this instrument
      shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
      unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be fully
      effective. 

10.10      Plan
      to Comply with Code
      Section 409A  .  Notwithstanding any provision to the
      contrary in this Plan, each provision of this Plan shall be interpreted to
      permit the deferral of compensation and the payment of deferred amounts in
      accordance with Code Section 409A and any provision that would conflict with
      such requirements shall not be valid or enforceable. 

58149.19 

24 

EXHIBIT
      A  

Participating
      Companies 

      (as
      of
      January 1, 2005) 

58149.19 

          Exhibit
          A 

          A-1 

</EX-10.BBB>

<EX-10.CCC>
 26
 ex10ccc.htm
 CINGULAR WIRELESS BLS EXECUTIVE TRANSITION BENEFIT PLAN

ex10ccc.htm 

Exhibit 10-ccc  

CINGULAR WIRELESS BLS TRANSITION
EXECUTIVE BENEFIT PLAN  

WHEREAS, Cingular Wireless
Corporation is the manager of Cingular Wireless LLC (the "Company");
and 

WHEREAS, BellSouth Corp. ("BellSouth"
or "BLS") maintains, for the benefit of certain highly compensated and key
management employees, the BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, the
BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan (collectively hereinafter the "Life
Insurance Plans") and the BellSouth Supplemental Disability Plan (all three
plans referred to hereinafter as the "BLS Plans") (copies of the BLS Plans are
attached hereto as Exhibit A); and 

WHEREAS, certain former BLS
employees, who have been contributed to the Company or an affiliate of the
Company, were eligible to participate and receive benefits under the BLS Plans
(the "Transition Executives"); and 

WHEREAS, the Transition Executives
are identified by name and the BLS Plan(s) in which they participated on Exhibit
B hereto; and 

WHEREAS, the Company desires to adopt
the provisions and benefits of the BLS Plans into a new Company plan for the
Transition Executives, so that they may continue to benefit from the provisions
of the BLS Plans following their contribution to the Company; and 

WHEREAS, the new plan shall be known
as the Cingular Wireless BLS Transition Executive Benefit Plan (the "Cingular
Plan"); and 

WHEREAS, the terms of the Cingular
Plan shall incorporate by reference the terms of the BLS Plans and shall be the
same terms as in effect for the BLS Plans on December 31, 2001, including any
amendments adopted through such date, unless otherwise provided in these
resolutions or in Exhibit C hereto; and 

WHEREAS, the benefits provided to the
Transition Executives under the Cingular Plan shall be in lieu of the benefits
such employees would have been entitled to receive under the BLS Plans and shall
be offset against any benefits payable under the BLS Plans for any reason;
and 

WHEREAS, the Transition Executives,
as identified in Exhibit B, shall be the only employees of the Company and its
affiliates eligible to participate and receive benefits under the Cingular Plan
and no other employees of the Company or its affiliates shall be permitted to
participate in the Cingular Plan; 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that
the Cingular Plan, as described herein, is hereby approved and adopted as
presented to the Board; provided, the Senior Vice President of Human Resources
of the Company is hereby authorized to approve and execute a plan document for
the Cingular Plan as he deems appropriate based on the advice of
counsel; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that with regard to
the Life Insurance Plans, the Company is authorized to receive an assignment of
all of BellSouth's obligations, rights and interests in the Life Insurance Plans
and any underlying policies of insurance, including the obligation to administer
the plans and pay any required company contributions; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cingular
Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President - Human Resources of the
Company and his delegates; provided, however, that the Senior Vice President -
Human Resources shall be permitted to appoint third party administrators to
assist in the administration of the Cingular Plan; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Company
reserves the unilateral right to modify, amend or terminate the Cingular Plan at
any time for any reason, including the right to merge the Cingular Plan or any
benefit under it into another Company benefit plan that may provide for
different benefits than the Cingular Plan; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Chief
Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Senior Vice President of
Human Resources of the Company are hereby authorized to approve amendments to
the Cingular Plan from time to time as they deem necessary or appropriate
consistent with the Company's employee benefit policies and based on the input
of the Human Resources division, Finance division and other applicable divisions
within the Company; provided, no such amendment which is reasonably expected to
result in an increase in annual plan expense shall be effective without the
approval of the Board; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the
appropriate officers of the Company and its affiliates are hereby authorized to
execute such other documents and to take such actions as they may deem necessary
or appropriate to implement the Cingular Plan and to carry out the intent and
purposes of the foregoing resolutions as shall be necessary to comply with the
requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act and all other applicable laws; and 

RESOLVED, all prior actions taken by
any officer of the Corporation and any officers of the Company in connection
with the foregoing resolutions are hereby ratified. 

EXHIBIT
A 

BellSouth
Supplemental Life Insurance Plan 

1.           PURPOSE 

The purpose of the BellSouth
Supplemental Life Insurance Plan (the "Plan") is to provide an insurance
arrangement under which BellSouth Corporation and its subsidiaries and
affiliates can assist key employees in acquiring and financing life insurance
coverage. 

2.           DEFINITIONS 

For purposes of this Plan, the
following terms have the meanings set forth below: 

2.01                 "Coverage
Amount" means the Policy death benefit payable under the Participant's
Policy. 

2.02                 "Coverage
Level" means the Single Life Coverage insurance death benefit the Employee is
eligible for under the Plan, determined based on the Employee's job
classification, in accordance with the schedule of Coverage Levels maintained by
the Plan Administrator. Provided, however, that to determine the amount of
insurance death benefit for which an Employee is eligible, the applicable amount
from the schedule of Coverage Levels shall be reduced by one hundred percent
(100%) of the amount of any Single Life Coverage insurance death benefit and by
fifty percent (50%) of the amount of any Survivorship Coverage insurance death
benefit provided to the Employee under the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance
Plan, the BellSouth Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan, or the BellSouth
Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance Plan. 

2.03                 "Disability"
means that the Participant is receiving disability benefits under any long-term
disability plan sponsored by the Employer or an affiliated entity. 

2.04                 "Effective
Date" means the effective date of the Plan, which is January 1,
1998. 

2.05                 "Employee"
means an employee or former employee of the Employer who is eligible to
participate in the Plan. 

2.06                 "Employer"
means BellSouth Corporation and any subsidiary or affiliate of BellSouth
Corporation which is authorized by the Plan Administrator to participate in this
Plan. 

2.07                 "Employer
Premium" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the Total Policy Premium
payable for the year, less the portion of the premium to be paid by the
Participant pursuant to Section 5.01 of the Plan. 

2.08                 "Enrollment
Age" means the Participant's age at the time of enrollment in the Plan as to the
Participant's initial Coverage Amount under the Plan, and it means the
Participant's age at a subsequent enrollment for an increased Coverage Amount as
to the increased Coverage Amount. 

2.09                 "Insurance
Cost" means, with respect to a Participant, the annual cost for the
Participant's Coverage Amount determined pursuant to the Insurance Cost schedule
maintained by the Plan Administrator. The Insurance Cost for a Participant shall
be determined at the time of the Participant's enrollment in the Plan, based on
the Participant's Coverage Amount and Enrollment Age, and shall not change
thereafter. A smoker rate shall be used to determine the Insurance Cost for any
Participant who is deemed a smoker by the Insurer; a nonsmoker rate shall be
used for all other Participants. A change in the Insurance Cost schedule will be
effective only as to Plan enrollments occurring after the effective date of the
change; it shall not affect the Insurance Cost for a Participant with respect to
any Coverage Amount in effect for the Participant prior to the effective date of
the change. 

If a Participant's coverage is in
effect for a period of less than twelve (12) months during any Policy Year, the
Participant's Insurance Cost for that year shall be determined by multiplying
the annual cost as determined from the Insurance Cost schedule by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of full months that the coverage is in
effect and the denominator of which is twelve (12). 

2.10                 "Insurer"
means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the insurance company issuing the
insurance policy on the Participant's life (or on the joint lives of the
Participant and the Participant's spouse, in the case of a Survivorship Policy)
pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 

2.11                 "Participant"
means an Employee who is participating in the Plan. 

2.12                 "Participant
Premium" means, with respect to each Policy Year (or portion thereof) for a
Participant, the Participant's Insurance Cost. 

2.13                 "Permanent
Policy" means a Participant's Policy having cash values which are projected to
be sufficient to continue to provide death benefit coverage at least equal to
the Participant's Coverage Amount until the policy maturity date specified in
the Participant's Policy (determined without regard to any Policy rider which
extends the maturity date  beyond the originally scheduled policy
maturity date), and which is projected to have a cash accumulation value equal
to at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the Policy Coverage Amount at the
maturity date specified in such Policy, with no further premium payments. The
determination of whether a Policy is at a given time a Permanent Policy shall be
made by the Plan Administrator, based on Policy projections provided by the
Insurer or its agent utilizing the Policy's then current mortality rates and
Policy expenses, and the following Policy interest crediting rates. For the
Policy Year in which the determination is made and for all prior Policy years,
if any, the Policy projection shall be based on the actual interest crediting
rates in effect for the Policy (or, if such rate is not known when the
determination is made, the actual rate in effect for the preceding Policy Year).
For each of the ten (10) succeeding Policy Years, the projections shall reflect
that rate decreased ratably such that the rate for the tenth Policy Year
following the Policy Year in which the determination is made shall be five
percent (5%). For all successive Policy Years, the projection shall reflect a
five percent (5%) Policy interest crediting rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if the interest crediting rate in effect for the Policy Year in which the
determination is made is less than five percent (5%), the projections shall
reflect such lower rate for all Policy Years thereafter. 

2.14                 "Plan"
means the BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, embodied
herein. 

2.15                 "Plan
Administrator" means the Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth Corporation and
any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with respect to
any or all of his responsibilities hereunder; provided, the Board of Directors
of BellSouth Corporation may designate any other person or committee to serve in
lieu of the Chief Executive Officer as the Plan Administrator with respect to
any or all of the administrative responsibilities hereunder. 

2.16                 "Policy"
means the life insurance coverage acquired on the life of the Participant (or on
the joint lives of the Participant and the Participant's spouse, in the case of
a Survivorship Policy) by the Participant or other Policy Owner issued pursuant
to the terms of this Plan. The Plan Administrator shall determine the specific
policies which may be acquired under the Plan, and shall maintain a list of
approved policies. 

2.17                 "Policy
Owner" means the Participant or that person or entity to whom the Participant
has assigned his interest in the Policy. 

2.18                 "Policy
Year" means the twelve month period (and each successive twelve month period)
beginning on the issue date of the Policy. 

2.19                 "Premium
Payment Years" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the number of
consecutive Policy Years, beginning with the first Policy Year, and continuing
for the longer of: (1) all Policy Years ending at the end of the Policy Year
during which the Participant attains age sixty-two (62) (or, if the Participant
dies before such time, the end of the Policy Year during which the Participant
would have attained such age); or (2) five (5) Policy Years. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if prior to the end of such period the Policy qualifies as a
Permanent Policy, the Premium Payment Years shall end at such earlier
time. 

2.20                 "Retirement"
means a termination of the Participant's employment with the Employer under
circumstances where the Participant is immediately eligible to receive pension
benefits under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) maintained by
the Employer or one of its subsidiaries. 

2.21                 "Single
Life Coverage" means life insurance coverage on the life of the
Participant. 

2.22                 "Survivorship
Coverage" means life insurance coverage on the lives of the Participant and the
Participant's spouse, with the life insurance death benefit to be payable at the
death of the last survivor of the Participant and the Participant's
spouse. 

2.23                 "Total
Policy Premium" means the level annual premium amount for the Participant's
Single Life Coverage Policy that is projected to result in the Policy qualifying
as a Permanent Policy if the annual premium amount is paid each year for all
scheduled Premium Payment Years, assuming the Participant qualifies for the
Insurer's guaranteed issue nonsmoker rates, or if the Participant is deemed by
the Insurer to be a smoker, the Insurer's guaranteed issue smoker rates. The
determination as to the amount of the Total Policy Premium shall be based on
Single Life Coverage even if the Participant elects Survivorship Coverage. If
more than one type of Single Life Coverage Policy is available under the Plan,
the Plan Administrator shall determine the Single Life Coverage Policy to be
used to determine the Total Policy Premium. The Total Policy Premium for a
Participant shall be determined when the Participant enrolls for coverage under
the Plan, and shall not be changed thereafter; it shall be based on the
Participant's Coverage Level, or, if less, the actual Coverage Amount elected by
the Participant. 

3.           ELIGIBILITY 

3.01                 General.
Each Employee who is designated by the Plan Administrator as a member of the
Employer's "executive compensation group" or as a "senior manager" shall be
eligible to participate in the Plan, provided that the Employee (and any other
appropriate party, such as the Employee's spouse or a Policy Owner other than
the Employee, as determined by the Plan Administrator) relinquishes any rights
to or interests in any policies providing interim coverage during the
rehabilitation of Confederation Life Insurance Company under the BellSouth
Corporation Executive  Life Insurance Plan or the BellSouth
Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance Plan and completes such other forms as
the Plan Administrator may require. Each such Employee on the Effective Date
shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the Effective Date. Each
Employee subsequently satisfying such eligibility requirements shall be eligible
to participate in the Plan effective as of the first day of the calendar quarter
(i.e., January 11, April I, July 1, and October 1) following the date on which
such standards are satisfied. 

3.02                 Type
of Coverage. If an Employee is married at the time the Employee enrolls in the
Plan, the Employee can elect to participate in either Single Life Coverage or
Survivorship Coverage. An Employee who is unmarried at the time the Employee
enrolls in the Plan shall be eligible for Single Life Coverage only. The
election of one type of coverage shall not preclude the Participant from
electing the other type of coverage as to any increased Coverage Level the
Participant becomes eligible for pursuant to Section 4.02 of the
Plan. 

3.03                 Conversion
of Coverage. Subject to any proof of insurability required by the Insurer, a
Participant (or other Policy Owner) can elect to convert Survivorship Coverage
to Single Life Coverage, and with respect to a married Participant, the
Participant (or other Policy Owner) can elect to convert Single Life Coverage to
Survivorship Coverage. Provided, however, that the number of Premium Payment
Years for a Participant shall not be redetermined in connection with a
conversion from one type of coverage to another. Upon a conversion, the cash
values of the replaced Policy shall be transferred to the new Policy in
accordance with the Insurer's practices. Any Insurer charges or tax liability
resulting from a conversion shall be borne by the Participant or other Policy
Owner. 

4.           AMOUNT
OF COVERAGE 

4.01                 General.
An Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan under Section 3.01 of the
Plan shall be eligible for the full Coverage Level as specified in the Plan
under Section 2.02. However, within sixty (60) days of becoming eligible to
participate, a Participant can elect a Coverage Amount which is less than the
applicable Coverage Level; provided, however, that the Coverage Amount elected
must be an even multiple of $100,000. If a Participant elects a Coverage Amount
less than the Participant's Coverage Level (or fails to elect any Coverage), the
Participant cannot later increase the Coverage Amount except in connection with
a promotion under Section 4.02 of the Plan. 

4.02                 Promotions.
Employees promoted to a job classification or position eligible for an increased
Coverage Level shall be eligible for the increased Coverage Level effective as
of the first day of the calendar quarter (i.e., January 11, April 11, July 1,
and October 1) following the promotion. The additional Coverage Amount available
to the Participant under this Section shall be equal to the applicable Coverage
Level after the promotion reduced by any Coverage Amounts already in effect for
a Participant. In order to be effective, any election for an increase in the
Coverage Amount must be made within the time period prescribed by the Plan
Administrator in enrollment materials provided to the Employee. 

4.03                 Survivorship
Coverage. If a Participant elects Survivorship Coverage, the amount of
Survivorship Coverage will be determined by the Plan Administrator based on the
Participant's age and smoker or nonsmoker status, the age and insurability of
the Participant's spouse, and based on the Participant's Total Policy Premium.
The Coverage Amount shall be the highest amount such that the Policy will
qualify as a Permanent Policy if the Total Policy Premium is paid for each year
that is a scheduled Premium Payment Year. 

5.           PAYMENT
OF PREMIUMS 

5.01                 Participant
Premium Payments. A Participant shall pay the Participant Premium for each
Policy Year which is a Premium Payment Year for the Participant. The amount
shall be paid by the Participant to the Employer by payroll (or retirement
income) deductions of equal installments during the Policy Year, or in such
other manner as may be determined by the Plan Administrator. The Employer shall
pay the Participant Premium amount to the Insurer, and can do so as collected
from the Participant or can advance payments to the Insurer for a Policy Year at
any time during the Policy Year or up to thirty (30) days in advance of the
Policy Year. If a Participant terminates employment with the Employer, and the
Employer has made such an advance payment of the Participant Premium to the
Insurer, the Employer may withhold any uncollected portion of the advanced
Participant Premium from any amount payable to the Participant by the Employer
to the extent permitted by law. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this
paragraph, no Participant Premium shall be required with respect to Survivorship
Coverage after the death of the Participant. 

5.02                 Employer
Premium Payments. The Employer shall pay the Employer Premium for a
Participant's Policy within thirty (30) days of the beginning of each Policy
Year which is a Premium Payment Year. 

5.03                 Additional
Employer Premium Payments. For each of the last three (3) scheduled Premium
Payment Years for a Participant, the Plan Administrator shall determine whether
there will be any increased Employer premium payment with respect to a
Participant's Policy. The Plan Administrator shall first determine whether the
Participant's Policy is then projected to qualify as a Permanent Policy if the
Total Policy Premium is paid each year for the remaining scheduled Premium
Payment Years. If the Policy is projected to qualify as a Permanent Policy, no
increased Employer Premium payment shall be required for such Premium Payment
Year .If the projections indicate that the Policy will not qualify as a
Permanent Policy, then the amount payable by the Employer under Section 5.02
shall be increased by an amount which will result in the Policy qualifying as a
Permanent Policy if such increased amount is paid for each remaining Premium
Payment Year, but any such increase in Employer Premium shall be limited by the
maximum premium amounts permissible for such Policy under Internal Revenue Code
Sections 7702 and 7702A (or comparable successor sections) without forfeiting
any of the favorable tax attributes associated with life insurance policies. The
determination as to whether any increased amount is payable shall be made
separately for each of the last three (3) Premium Payment Years. However, the
Employer Premium payable under Section 5.02 shall not be reduced to an amount
that is less than the amount which would have been payable by the Employer for a
Premium Payment Year without regard to this Section 5.03. Regardless of the type
of coverage actually provided to a Participant, and notwithstanding any changes
in the type of coverage provided to the Participant under Section 3.03, the
increased Employer Premium payable under this Section 5.03 shall be the amount
that would be payable if the Participant had elected Single Life Coverage and
maintained such coverage for all Policy Years; also, if more than one type of
Single Life Coverage Policy is available under the Plan, the Single Life
Coverage Policy used to determine Total Policy Premium under Section 2.23 shall
be used to make the determination under this Section 5.03. In the event tax law
limits preclude the Employer from qualifying a Policy as a Permanent Policy by
the end of the last scheduled Premium Payment Year, then the Employer's
obligation to pay premiums under Section 5.02 and 5.03 (and make additional
Employer payments under Section 5.04) shall be extended until projections
indicate that the Policy qualifies as a Permanent Policy. 

5.04                 Additional
Employer Payments. 

a.           If
the payment of an Employer Premium under Section 5.02 (or any increased amount
under Section 5.03) results in the  recognition of income for tax
purposes by the Participant in any year, the Employer shall pay to the
Participant an amount determined by the Plan Administrator which is designed to
approximate (1) the sum of the total federal and state income taxes and
applicable payroll taxes which would be payable by the Participant at the
highest marginal rate provided for under applicable federal income tax laws, and
at the highest marginal rate provided for under applicable state income tax laws
for the state of the Participant's" tax domicile, on the income so recognized,
plus (2) the total federal and state income taxes and applicable payroll taxes
which would be payable by the Participant on the payment described in clause
(1). 

b.           If
the payment of any Employer Premium under Section 5.02 (or any increased amount
under Section 5.03) on Survivorship Coverage after the death of the Employee
results in the recognition of income for tax purposes by the Participant's
spouse or other Policy Owner, the Employer shall pay to the Participant's spouse
or other Policy Owner an amount determined by the Plan Administrator which is
designed to approximate the total federal and state income taxes which would be
payable by the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner at the highest
marginal rate provided for under applicable federal income tax laws, and at the
highest marginal rate provided for under applicable state income tax laws for
the state of the tax domicile of the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner,
attributable to such premium payment. 

c.           For
purposes of this Section 5.04, a tax shall be deemed payable or income shall be
deemed recognized if either (i) it is finally determined by the Internal Revenue
Service, or (ii) an opinion is given by the Employer's counsel, that the tax is
payable. 

d.           Any
payment made to a Participant or a Participant's spouse under this Section shall
be made no later than April 1 of the year following the year to which the
payment relates. 

e.           Any
amount to be paid to a Participant, a Participant's spouse, or other Policy
Owner under this Section, and the amounts payable, shall be conclusively
determined by the Plan Administrator based on generally applicable tax rates and
not based upon the unique tax situation of each Participant, Participant's
spouse, or other Policy Owner. 

5.05                 Termination
of Obligation to Pay Premiums. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
the Employer's obligation to pay premiums (including any increased amounts under
Section 5.03) with respect to the Participant's Policy, shall terminate upon the
first to occur of any of the following events: 

a.           Termination
of employment of the Participant with the Employer prior to the Participant's
death for reasons other than Retirement or Disability. 

b.           The
written notice by the Employer to the Participant following a resolution by the
Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation to terminate this Plan. 

c.           As
to Single Life Coverage only, the death of the Participant. 

d.           As
to Survivorship Coverage only, the death of the last survivor of the Participant
and the Participant's spouse. 

e.           The
surrender or cancellation of the Participant's Policy, except that a Policy will
not be considered surrendered or canceled if the surrender or cancellation is in
connection with the replacement of the Policy with another Policy pursuant to
the provisions of the Plan. 

f.           The
withdrawal of any Policy cash values, or borrowing against Policy cash values,
by the Participant or other Policy Owner. 

g.           The
reduction of the Participant's Policy death benefit to a level that is less than
the initial Policy Coverage Amount, except that a conversion from Survivorship
Coverage to Single Life Coverage shall not be considered a reduction in Policy
death benefit for the purpose of this Section. 

h.           The
determination by the Plan Administrator that the Policy will qualify as a
Permanent Policy with no further Employer Premium payments. 

6.           POLICY
OWNERSHIP 

6.01                 Ownership.
The Policy Owner shall be the sole and exclusive owner of a Participant's Policy
and shall be entitled to exercise all of the rights of ownership. 

6.02                 Possession
of Policy. The Policy Owner shall keep possession of the Policy. 

7.           GOVERNING
LAWS   NOTICES 

7.01                 Governing
Law. This Plan shall be governed by and construed  in accordance with
the laws of the State of Georgia. 

7.02                 Notices.
All notices hereunder shall be in writing and sent by first class mail with
postage prepaid. Any notice to the Employer shall be addressed to BellSouth
Corporation at its office at 1155 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, GA
30367-6000, ATTENTION: Human Resources -Director Executive Benefits. Any notice
to the Employee shall be addressed to the Employee at the address for the
Employee maintained in the Employer's records. Any party may change the address
for such party herein set forth by giving notice of such change to the other
parties pursuant to this Section. 

8.           NOT
A CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT 

This Plan shall not be deemed to
constitute a contract of employment between an Employee and the Employer or a
Participant and the Employer, nor shall any provision restrict the right of the
Employer to discharge an Employee or Participant, or restrict the right of an
Employee or Participant to terminate employment. 

9.           AMENDMENT,
TERMINATION, ADMINISTRATION, AND SUCCESSORS CONSTRUCTION 

9.01                 Amendment.
The Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation, or its delegate, shall have the
right in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan in whole or in part at any time
and from time to time. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall have the right,
in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time so
long as such amendment is not of a material nature. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no modification or amendment shall be effective so as to decrease any
benefits of a Participant unless the Participant consents in writing to such
modification or amendment. Written notice of any material modification or
amendment shall be given promptly to each Participant. 

9.02                 Termination.
The Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation may terminate the Plan without
the consent of the Participants or Employees. 

9.03                 Successors.
The terms and conditions of this Plan shall enure to the benefit of and bind the
Employer, the Participant, their successors, assignees, and representatives. If,
subsequent to the Effective Date of the Plan, substantially all of the stock or
assets of the Employer are acquired by another corporation or entity or if the
Employer is merged into, or consolidated with, another corporation or entity ,
then the obligations created hereunder shall be obligations of the acquirer or
successor corporation or entity. 

10.           PLAN
ADMINISTRATION 

10.01                 Individual
Administrator. If the Plan Administrator is an individual he shall act and
record his actions in writing. Any matter concerning specifically such
individual's own benefit or rights hereunder shall be determined by the Board of
Directors of BellSouth Corporation or its delegate. 

10.02                 Administrative
Committee. If the Plan Administrator is a committee, or if any of the duties or
responsibilities of the Plan Administrator are vested in a committee, action of
the Plan Administrator may be taken with or without a meeting of committee
members; provided, action shall be taken only upon the vote or other affirmative
expression of a majority of the committee members qualified to vote with respect
to such action. If a member of the committee is a Participant, he or she shall
not participate in any decision which solely affects his or her own benefit
under the Plan. For purposes of administering the Plan, the Plan Administrator
shall choose a secretary who shall keep minutes of the committee's proceedings
and all records and documents pertaining to the administration of the Plan. The
secretary may execute any certificate or other written direction on behalf of
the Plan Administrator. 

10.03                 Rights
and Duties of the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator shall administer
the Plan and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish that purpose,
including (but not limited to) the following: 

a.           to
construe, interpret and administer the Plan; 

b.           
to make determinations required by the Plan, and to maintain records regarding
Participants' Benefits hereunder; 

c.           
to compute and certify the amount and kinds of benefits payable to Participants,
and to determine the time and manner in which such benefits are to be
paid; 

d.           
to authorize all disbursements pursuant to the Plan; 

e.           
to maintain all the necessary records of the administration of the
Plan; 

f.           
to make and publish such rules and procedures for the regulation of the Plan as
are not inconsistent with the terms hereof; 

g.           to
designate to other individuals or entities from time to time the to designate to
other individuals or entities from time to time the performance of any of its
duties or responsibilities hereunder: and 

h.           to
hire agents, accountants, actuaries, consultants and legal counsel to assist in
operating and administering the Plan. 

The Plan Administrator shall have the
exclusive right to construe and interpret the Plan, to decide all questions of
eligibility for benefits and to determine the amount of benefits, and its
decisions on such matters shall be final and conclusive on all
parties. 

10.04                 Bond;
Compensation. The Plan Administrator and (if applicable) its members shall serve
as such without bond and without compensation for services
hereunder. 

11.           CLAIMS
PROCEDURE 

11.01                 Named
Fiduciary. The Plan Administrator is hereby designated as the named fiduciary
under this Plan. 

11.02                 Claims
Procedures. Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Plan
shall be filed with the Plan Administrator which shall make all determinations
concerning such claim. Any decision by the Plan Administrator denying such claim
shall be in writing and shall be delivered to all parties in interest in
accordance with the notice provisions of Section 7.02 hereof. Such decision
shall set forth the reasons for denial in plain language. Pertinent provisions
of the Plan shall be cited and, where appropriate, an explanation as to how the
Employee can perfect the claim will be provided. This notice of denial of
benefits will be provided within 90 days of the Plan Administrator's receipt of
the Employee's claim for benefits. If the Plan Administrator fails to notify the
Employee of its decision regarding the claim, the claim shall be considered
denied, and the Employee shall then be permitted to proceed with the appeal as
provided in this Section. 

An Employee who has been completely
or partially denied a benefit shall be entitled to appeal this denial of his/her
claim by filing a written statement of his/her position with the Plan
Administrator no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the written
notification of such claim denial. The Plan Administrator shall schedule an
opportunity for a full and fair review of the issue within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the appeal. The decision on review shall set forth specific reasons
for the decision, and sha11 cite specific references to the pertinent Plan
provisions on which the decision is based. Following the review of any
additional information submitted by the Employee, either through the hearing
process or otherwise, the Plan Administrator shall render a decision on the
review of the denied claim in the following manner: 

a.           The
Plan Administrator shall make its decision regarding the merits of the denied
claim within sixty (60) days following receipt of the request for review (or
within 120 days after such receipt, in a case where there are special
circumstances requiring extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim). The
Plan Administrator shall deliver the decision to the claimant in writing. If an
extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim is required because of
special circumstances, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the
Employee prior to the commencement of the extension. If the decision on review
is not furnished within the prescribed time, the claim shall be deemed denied on
review. 

b.           The
decision on review shall set forth specific reasons for the decision, and shall
cite specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision
is based. 

General
Information About The BellSouth 

      Supplemental
Life Insurance Plan 

NAME OF
PLAN 

BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance
Plan 

NAME AND
ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER 

Various BellSouth companies
participate in this Plan. BellSouth 

        Corporation's address is: 1155
Peachtree Street, N.E. Atlanta, Georgia 30309 

EMPLOYER
IDENTIFICATION NUMBER 

58-1533433 

PLAN
NUMBER 

589 

TYPE OF
PLAN 

This Plan is a welfare benefit plan
in which participants are given the opportunity to receive life insurance
coverage purchased with a combination of employer and employee
contributions. 

TYPE OF
ADMINISTRATION 

Benefits are provided through
insurance contracts purchased under the terms of the Plan. The Plan is
administered by BellSouth Corporation. 

CLAIMS
PROCEDURE 

Claims for insurance benefits under
the Plan are handled by and should be directed to the Plan
Administrator. 

PLAN
YEAR 

The Plan Year is the period beginning
each January 1 and ending each December 31 during which the Plan is in
effect. 

END OF
YEAR FOR FISCAL YEAR PURPOSES 

December 31 

NAME,
BUSINESS ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OF PLAN ADMINISTRATOR 

BellSouth Corporation 

        1155 Peachtree Street,
N.E. 

        Atlanta, Georgia
30309-3610 

        Attn.: Director Executive
Benefits 

        (404) 249-2228 

SERVICE
OF LEGAL PROCESS 

Service of legal process may be made
upon the Plan Administrator. 

EFFECTIVE
DATE 

The Effective Date of the Plan is
January 1, 1998. 

PARTICIPANT'S
RIGHTS UNDER ERISA 

Participants in the Plan are entitled
to certain rights and protections under the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). ERISA provides that each Plan participant
may: 

(1)              Examine,
without charge, all Plan documents, and copies of all documents files by the
Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor, such as detailed annual reports and Plan
descriptions, if applicable. 

(2)              Obtain
copies of all Plan documents and other Plan information upon written request to
the Plan Administrator. The Administrator may make a reasonable charge for
copies; 

(3)              Receive
a summary of the Plan's annual financial report. The Plan Administrator is
required by law to furnish each participant with a copy of this summary annual
report; 

You should also be aware of the
following protections afforded by ERISA: 

(1)              The
people who operate the Plan, called "fiduciaries," must act prudently and in the
interest of you and other Plan participants and beneficiaries. 

(2)              No
one may interfere with the exercise of any rights which you have under the Plan
or ERISA. 

(3)              If
your claim for a benefit is denied in whole or in part, you must receive a
written explanation of the reason for denial. 

(4)              You
have the right to have the Plan Administrator review and reconsider your
claim. 

Under ERISA, there are steps you can
take to enforce the above rights. If you request materials from the Plan and do
not receive them within 30 days, you may choose to file suit in a federal court.
If the court finds that you are entitled to receive those materials, it may
require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you a daily
penalty until you receive them. However, if the documents were not sent because
of reasons beyond the control of the Plan Administrator, he will not be
penalized. If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole
or in part, you may choose to file suit in a state or federal court. If it
should happen that Plan fiduciaries misuse the Plan's money, or if you are
discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance from
the U. S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a federal court. The
court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If you lose, the
court may order you to pay these costs and fees, if, for example, it finds your
claim frivolous. 

If you have any questions about this
statement or about your rights under ERISA, you should contact the nearest Area
Office of the U.S. Labor Management Services Administration Department of
Labor. 

BELLSOUTH
SPLIT-DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

1.              PURPOSE 

The purpose of the BellSouth
Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan (the  Plan ) is to provide a split-dollar
insurance arrangement under which BellSouth Corporation and its subsidiaries and
affiliates can assist key employees in acquiring and financing life insurance
coverage. This Plan incorporates the provisions of the BellSouth Corporation
Executive Life Insurance Plan and the BellSouth Corporation Senior Manager Life
Insurance Plan, as amended as of the effective date of this Plan (the "Prior
Plans ), and, as of such effective date, shall be deemed to constitute a
complete restatement of both Prior Plans, as amended (except to the extent
otherwise specifically provided in Section 3.01 of this Plan). 

2.              DEFINITIONS 

For purposes of this Plan, the
following terms have the meanings set forth below: 

2.01              "Agreement"
means the agreement executed between the Employer and a Participant implementing
the terms of this Plan, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit
A. 

2.02              "Assignment"
means the collateral assignment executed by the Policy Owner, substantially in
the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. 

2.03              "Coverage
Amount" means the face amount of the insurance death benefit provided to a
Participant under the Plan, as specified in the Participant's
Agreement. 

2.04              "Disability"
means that the Participant is receiving disability benefits under any long-term
disability plan sponsored by the Employer or an affiliated entity. 

2.05              "Effective
Date" means the effective date of the Plan, which is January 1,
1998. 

2.06              "Employee"
means an employee or former employee of the Employer who is eligible to
participate in the Plan. 

2.07              "Employer"
means BellSouth Corporation and any subsidiary or affiliate of BellSouth
Corporation which is authorized by the Plan Administrator to participate in this
Plan. 

2.08              "Employer
Account" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, a bookkeeping entry
maintained by the Employer pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan, equal to the
lesser of (1) the cash value of the Policy, or (2) the amount of Policy premiums
paid by the Employer (and not collected from the Participant). With respect to a
Replacement Policy, the amount of Policy premiums paid by the Employer shall be
deemed to include the total of all such premiums paid on the Replacement Policy
and the Replaced Policy, reduced by an amount equal to that portion of the
Replaced Policy Cash Value, if any, paid to the Employer at the time the
Replacement Policy is issued. 

2.09              "Employer
Premium" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the total Policy premium
payable for the Policy Year by the Company as specified in the Participant's
Agreement, less the portion of the premium to be paid by the Participant
pursuant to Section 5.01 of the Plan. 

2.10              "Enrollment
Age" means the Participant's age at the time of enrollment in the Prior Plans as
to the Participant's initial Coverage Amount, and it means the Participant's age
at a subsequent enrollment for an increased Coverage Amount as to the increased
Coverage Amount; provided, however, that with respect to a Replacement Policy,
the age at enrollment shall mean the age at the time of enrollment for the
Replaced Policy. 

2.11              "Insurance
Cost" means, with respect to a Participant, the annual cost for the
Participant's Coverage Amount determined pursuant to the Insurance Cost schedule
maintained by the Plan Administrator. The Insurance Cost for a Participant shall
be determined as of the time of the Participant's enrollment in the Prior
Plan(s), based on the Participant's Coverage Amount and Enrollment Age. and
shall not change thereafter. A smoker rate shall be used to determine the
Insurance Cost for any, Participant who smoked cigarettes at any time during the
twelve month period immediately preceding the Participant's enrollment; a
nonsmoker rate shall be used for all other Participants. However,
notwithstanding the previous sentence, if a Replacement Policy is issued for a
Participant and the Participant qualifies as a nonsmoker for the Replacement
Policy, the nonsmoker rate shall thereafter be used to determine the Insurance
Cost for the Participant. If a Participant's coverage is in effect for a period
of less than twelve (12) months during any Policy Year, the Participant's
Insurance Cost for that year shall be determined by multiplying the annual cost
as determined from the insurance cost schedule by a fraction, the numerator of
which is the number of full months that the coverage is in effect and the
denominator of which is twelve (12). 

2.12              "Insurer"
means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the insurance company issuing the
insurance policy or group policy certificate on the Participant's life (or on
the joint lives of the Participant and the Participant's spouse) pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan. 

2.13              "Participant"
means an Employee who is participating in the Plan. 

2.14              "Participant
Account" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, a bookkeeping entry
maintained by the Employer pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan, equal to the
excess, if any, of the cash value of the Policy over the Employer
Account. 

2.15              "Participant
Premium" means, with respect to each Policy Year (or portion thereof) for a
Participant, the greater of (1) the Participant's Insurance Cost; or (2) the one
year term cost for the Policy Year  (or portion thereof) determined
based on the Participant's age at the beginning of the Policy Year, the
Insurer's published one year term rates in effect at the beginning of the Policy
Year, and the Participant's Coverage Amount under the Plan. The one year term
cost amount shall be determined pursuant to the guidelines set forth in Revenue
Ruling 66-110, 1966-1 C.B. 12, and Revenue Ruling 67-154, 1967-1 C.B. 11, and
shall be conclusively determined by the Plan Administrator. 

2.16              "Permanent
Policy" means a Participant's Policy having cash values which are projected to
be sufficient to continue to provide death benefit coverage at least equal to
the Participant's Coverage Amount until the policy maturity date specified in
the Participant's Policy (determined without regard to any Policy rider which
extends the maturity date beyond the originally scheduled policy maturity date
), and which is projected to have a cash accumulation value equal to at least
ninety-five percent (95% ) of the Policy Coverage Amount at the maturity date
specified in such Policy, with no further premium payments, following a
withdrawal by the Employer of all amounts to which it is entitled pursuant to
Section 8.02e or Section 8.03. A determination as to whether a Policy is at a
given, time a Permanent Policy shall be made by the Plan Administrator, and
shall be based on Policy projections provided by the Insurer or its agent
utilizing the Policy's then current mortality rates and Policy expenses, and the
following Policy interest crediting rates. For the Policy Year of the Employer
withdrawal made pursuant to Section 8.02e or Section 8.03, the projections shall
reflect the actual Policy interest crediting rate in effect for such year ( or,
if such rate is not known when the determination is made, the actual rate in
effect for the preceding Policy Year). For each of the ten (10) succeeding
Policy Years, the projections shall reflect that rate decreased ratably such
that the rate in the tenth Policy Year following the Policy Year in which the
Employer withdrawal occurs will be five percent (5%). For all successive Policy
Years, the projections shall reflect a five percent (5%) Policy interest
crediting rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the actual Policy interest
crediting rate in effect when the determination is made is less than five
percent (5%), the projections shall reflect such lower rate for the Policy Year
of the Employer withdrawal and all subsequent Policy Years. 

2.17              "Plan"
means the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan. Except as otherwise
provided in Section 3.01, with respect to each Participant who participated in
the BellSouth Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan, the Plan shall be
construed and interpreted as a restatement of the provisions of such plan, as
amended; and, with respect to each Participant who participated in the BellSouth
Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance Plan, the Plan shall be construed and
interpreted as a restatement of such plan, as amended. 

2.18              "Plan
Administrator" means the Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth Corporation and
any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with respect to
any or all of his responsibilities hereunder; provided, the Board of Directors
of BellSouth Corporation may designate any other person or committee to serve in
lieu of the Chief Executive Officer as the Plan Administrator with respect to
any or all of the administrative responsibilities hereunder. 

2.19              "Policy"
means the life insurance coverage acquired on the life of the Participant (or on
the joint lives of the Participant and the Participant's spouse) by the
Participant or other Policy Owner, which may be issued as a separate insurance
policy or a certificate under a group policy. 

2.20              "Policy
Owner" means the Participant or that person or entity to whom the Participant
has assigned his interest in the Policy. In the case of a Replacement Policy
issued to replace a Policy for which the Policy Owner is other than the
Participant, the Policy Owner of the Replacement Policy shall be the same as the
Policy Owner of the Policy being replaced, unless elected otherwise by such
Policy Owner. 

2.21              "Policy
Year" means the twelve month period (and each successive twelve month period)
beginning on the effective date of the Agreement. 

2.22              "Premium
Payment Years" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the number of
consecutive Policy Years (including, for a Replacement Policy, the number of
Policy Years during which the Replaced Policy was in force), beginning with the
first Policy Year, during which the Employer is required to pay a Policy
premium, as specified in the Participant's Agreement. 

2.23              "Replaced
Policy" means a Policy which has been replaced by a Replacement Policy. If a
Participant's Policy has been replaced more than one time, then the term
Replaced Policy shall include all prior Policies. 

2.24              "Replaced
Policy Cash Value" means the cash value of the Replaced Policy on the Effective
Date. 

2.25              "Replacement
Policy" means a Policy issued to replace a Policy previously issued under the
Plan. 

2.26              "Retirement"
means a termination of the Participant's employment with the Employer under
circumstances where the Participant is immediately eligible to receive pension
benefits under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) maintained by
the Employer or one of its subsidiaries. 

2.27              "Single
Life Coverage" means life insurance coverage on the life of the
Participant. 

2.28              "Survivorship
Coverage" means life insurance coverage on the lives of the Participant and the
Participant's spouse, with the life insurance death benefit to be payable at the
death of the last survivor of the Participant and the Participant's
spouse. 

2.29              "Terminated
for Cause" means, with respect to a Participant, the termination of the
Participant's employment with the Employer due to: (i) fraud, misappropriation,
embezzlement, or intentional material damage to the property or business of the
Employer; (ii) commission of a felony involving moral turpitude of which the
Participant is finally adjudicated guilty; or (iii) continuance of either
willful and repeated failure or grossly negligent and repeated failure by the
Participant to materially perform his duties. 

3.              ELIGIBILITY 

3.01              General.
Each Employee with a Prior Plan Agreement in effect on the day preceding the
Effective Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan, provided that the
Employee (and any other appropriate party, such as the Employee's spouse or a
Policy Owner other than the Employee, as determined by the Plan Administrator)
executes an Agreement consenting to the terms of this Plan, as amended, and
completes such other forms as the Plan Administrator shall require. Any Employee
eligible to participate who fails to execute (or secure execution of) an
Agreement consenting to the terms of this Plan, as amended, by August 31, 1998,
shall not be eligible for coverage under the Plan, but shall remain subject to
the terms and conditions of the Prior Plan(s) in which such Employee
participates as in effect on the day preceding the Effective Date, as amended
thereafter from time to time. 

3.02              Type
of Coverage. The type(s) of coverage for a Participant on the Effective Date
shall be the type(s) of coverage in place on the day preceding the Effective
Date pursuant to the Participant's Agreement(s) under the Prior Plan(s).
Provided, however, that the Policy Owner may make a one-time election to
exchange Survivorship Coverage for Single Life Coverage (equal to fifty percent
(50%) of the Participant's Survivorship Coverage Amount), or to exchange Single
Life Coverage for Survivorship Coverage (equal to two hundred percent (200%) of
the Participant's Single Life Coverage Amount), subject to any proof of
insurability required by the Insurer. Such an election must be made by August
31, 1998. If an unmarried Participant enrolls for Single Life Coverage and
subsequently marries, then, subject to the approval of the Plan Administrator,
the Participant (or other Policy Owner) shall have the right to make an
election, exercisable no later than one hundred eighty (180) days following the
marriage, to convert (subject to any proof of insurability required by the
Insurer) the Single Life Coverage to Survivorship Coverage (with the Coverage
Amount equal to two hundred percent (200%) of the Single Life Coverage Amount).
If a married Participant enrolls for Survivorship Coverage and subsequently
divorces, then, subject to the approval of the Plan Administrator, the
Participant (or other Policy Owner) shall have the right to make an election,
exercisable no later than one hundred eighty (180) days following the
finalization of the divorce, to convert (subject to any proof of insurability
required by the Insurer) the Survivorship Coverage to Single Life Coverage (with
the Coverage Amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the Survivorship Coverage
Amount). Under no other circumstances shall a Participant (or other Policy
Owner) have any right to change an election as to type of coverage after the
coverage becomes effective. Any Insurer charges or tax liability resulting from
a conversion shall be borne by the Participant or other Policy
Owner. 

4.              AMOUNT
OF COVERAGE 

The Coverage Amount for a Participant
shall be the amount specified in the Participant's Agreement. 

5.              PAYMENT
OF PREMIUMS; PAYMENT OF CERTAIN TAXES 

5.01              Participant
Premium Payments. A Participant shall pay the Participant Premium for each
Policy Year which is a Premium Payment Year for the Participant. The amount
shall be paid by the Participant to the Employer by payroll (or retirement
income) deductions of equal installments during the Policy Year, or in such
other manner as may be agreed to between the Plan Administrator and the
Participant. The Employer shall pay the Participant Premium amount to the
Insurer, and can do so as collected from the Participant or can advance payments
to the Insurer for a Policy Year at any time during the Policy Year or up to
thirty (30) days in advance of the Policy Year. If a Participant terminates
employment with the Employer, and the Employer has made such an advance payment
of the Participant Premium to the Insurer, the Employer may withhold any
uncollected portion of the advanced Participant Premium from any amount payable
to the Participant by the Employer to the extent permitted by law.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this paragraph, no Participant Premium
shall be required with respect to Survivorship Coverage after the death of the
Participant, and no Participant Premium shall be required after termination of
the Participant's Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01. 

5.02              Employer
Premium Payments. The Employer shall pay the Employer Premium for a
Participant's Policy within thirty (30) days of the beginning of each Policy
Year which is a Premium Payment Year. However, no Employer Premium shall be
required: (1) after the Participant's Agreement terminates pursuant to Section
8.01; or, (2) for a Policy Year if the Employer withdrawal and release of
Assignment under Section 8.03 would have occurred at the end of the prior Policy
year but for the requirement in Section 8.03 that the Policy not constitute a
Modified Endowment Contract following such withdrawal. Also, if the payment of
the Employer Premium for a Policy year would cause the Participant's Policy to
constitute a Modified Endowment Contract (as such term is defined in Section
7702A of the Internal Revenue Code), then the Employer Premium amount for such
Policy year shall be reduced to the largest such amount that can be paid without
causing the Policy to constitute a Modified Endowment Contract. The Employer
may, but shall not be required to, make additional premium payments with respect
to a Participant's Policy after the last Premium Payment Year. 

5.03              Additional
Employer Payments 

a.              If,
during any year which is not a Premium Payment Year, participation in the Plan
results in the recognition of income for tax purposes by the Participant for the
economic benefit to the Participant as described in, e.g., Revenue Ruling
64-328, 1964-2 C.8.11, the Employer shall pay to the Participant an amount
determined by the Plan Administrator which is designed to approximate the (1)
sum of the total federal and state income taxes and applicable payroll taxes
which would be payable by the Participant at the highest marginal rate provided
for under applicable federal income tax laws, and at the highest marginal rate
provided for under applicable state income tax laws for the state of the
Participant's tax domicile, on the income so recognized, plus (2) the total
federal and state income taxes and applicable payroll taxes which would be
payable by the Participant on the payment described in clause (1). Any payment
to be made under this subsection a. shall be made no later than April 1 of the
year following the year to which the payment relates. 

b.              If,
with respect to Survivorship Coverage after the death of the Participant,
participation in the Plan results in the recognition of income for tax purposes
by the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner for the economic benefit to
the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner as described in, e.g., Revenue
Ruling 64-328, 1964-2 C.8.11, the Employer shall pay to the Participant's spouse
or other Policy Owner an amount determined by the Plan Administrator which is
designed to approximate the total federal and state income taxes which would be
payable by the, Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner at the highest
marginal rate provided for under applicable federal income tax laws, and the
highest marginal rate provided for under applicable state income tax laws for
the state of the tax domicile of the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner,
on the income so recognized. Any payment, to be made under this subsection b.
shall be made no later than April 1 of the year following the year to which the
payment relates. 

c.              If
the termination of the Employer's interest in a Participant's Policy pursuant to
Section 8.03 of the Plan results in the recognition of income for tax purposes
by the Participant, the Employer shall pay to the Participant an amount
determined by the Plan Administrator which is designed to approximate the total
federal and state income taxes which would be payable by the Participant at the
highest marginal rate provided for under applicable federal income tax laws, and
at the highest marginal rate provided for under applicable state income tax laws
for the state of the Participant's tax domicile, attributable to such
termination. Such payment shall be made immediately following the termination of
the Employer's interest in the Policy or, if later, at such time as a
determination is made that such a tax is payable. 

d.              For
purposes of this Section 5.03, a tax shall be deemed payable or income shall be
deemed recognized, if either (i) it is finally determined by the Internal
Revenue Service, or (ii) an opinion is given by the Employer's counsel, that the
tax is payable. 

e.              Any
amount to be paid to a Participant, a Participant's spouse, or other Policy
Owner under this Section, and the amounts payable, shall be conclusively
determined by the Plan Administrator, based on generally applicable tax rates
and not based upon the unique tax situation of each Participant, Participant's
spouse, or other Policy Owner. 

6.              ACCOUNTS 

With respect to each Policy covered
by an Agreement made under this Plan, the Employer shall maintain bookkeeping
entries reflecting the Employer Account and Participant Account
values. 

7.              POLICY
OWNERSHIP 

7.01              Ownership.
Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, the Policy Owner shall be the sole
and exclusive owner of a Participant's Policy and shall be entitled to exercise
all of the rights of ownership including, but not limited to, the right to
designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive payment of the portion of
the death benefit under the Policy equal to the Coverage Amount, and the right
to assign any part or all of the Policy Owner's interest in the Policy (subject
to the Employer's rights, the terms and conditions of the Assignment specified
in Section 7.02 of the Plan, and the terms and conditions of this Plan) to any
person, entity or trust by the execution of a written instrument delivered to
the Employer. 

7.02              Employer's
Rights. In exchange for the Employer's agreement to pay the amounts described in
Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of this Plan, the Policy Owner shall execute an
Assignment to the Employer of the rights provided to the Employer under this
Plan. The Employer shall have the right to direct the Policy Owner in writing to
take any action required consistent with these rights, and upon the receipt of
such written direction from the Employer, the Policy Owner shall promptly take
such action as is necessary to comply therewith. The Employer agrees that it
shall not exercise any rights assigned to it in the Assignment in any way that
might impair or defeat the rights and interest of the Policy Owner under this
Plan. The Employer shall have the right to assign any part or all of its
interest in the Policy (subject to the Policy Owner's rights and the terms and
conditions of this Plan) to any person, entity or trust by the execution of a
written instrument delivered to the Policy Owner. 

7.03              Possession
of Policy. The Employer shall keep possession of the Policy. The Employer agrees
to make the Policy available to the Policy Owner or to the Insurer from time to
time for the purposes of endorsing or filing any change of beneficiary on the
Policy or exercising any other rights as the owner of the Policy, but the Policy
shall promptly be returned to the Employer. 

7.04              Policy
Loans. Except as otherwise specifically provided for in Section 8 of this Plan,
neither the Employer nor the Policy Owner may borrow against the Policy cash
values. 

7.05              Withdrawals
and Surrender. Except as otherwise specifically provided for in Section 8 of
this Plan, neither the Employer nor the Policy Owner may withdraw Policy cash
values or surrender all or a portion of the Policy. Provided, however, that a
cancellation or exchange of a Replaced Policy in connection with the acquisition
of a Replacement Policy shall not be deemed a withdrawal from or surrender of
the Replaced Policy. 

8.              TERMINATION
OF AGREEMENT 

8.01              Termination
Events. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Participant's
Agreement, the Employer's obligation to pay premiums with respect to the
Participant's Policy acquired pursuant to the Agreement, shall terminate upon
the first to occur of any of the following events: 

a.              Termination
of employment of the Participant with the Employer prior to the Participant's
death for reasons other than Retirement or Disability. 

b.              Termination
of the Participant's Agreement by mutual agreement of the Participant and the
Employer. 

c.              A
unilateral election by the Participant to terminate the Participant's Agreement;
provided, however, that such an election may be made by a Participant only
within sixty (60) days following the end of the last Premium Payment Year for
the Participant's Policy. 

d.              The
written notice by the Employer to the Participant following a resolution by the
Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation to terminate this Plan and all
Agreements made under the Plan. 

e.              As
to Single Life Coverage only, the death of the Participant. 

f.              As
to Survivorship Coverage only, the death of the last survivor of the Participant
and the Participant's spouse. 

g.              After
the release of Assignment pursuant to Section 8.03. 

8.02              Disposition
of Policy 

a.              In
the event of a termination of a Participant's Agreement under Section 8.01 a or
b of the Plan, the Policy owner shall be entitled to acquire the Employer's
rights under the Participant's Policy by paying to the Employer an amount equal
to the Employer Account; alternatively, the Policy Owner can require the
Employer to withdraw a portion of the cash values from the Participant's Policy,
partially surrender the Policy, or borrow a portion of the cash values from the
Participant's Policy, with the amount to be specified by the Policy Owner, and
the Policy Owner's required payment to the Employer under this Section shall
thereby be reduced to an amount equal to the excess of the Employer Account over
the amount withdrawn, received upon partial surrender, or borrowed by the
Employer (for these purposes, the amount withdrawn, received upon partial
surrender, or borrowed shall refer to the amount  

actually
received by the Employer after the application of any charges, such as surrender
charges, applicable to the withdrawal, partial surrender, or borrowing). The
Policy Owner may exercise this right to acquire the Employer's interest in the
Policy by so notifying the Employer within ninety (90) days after an event of
termination under Section 8.01a or b of this Plan has occurred. Within thirty
(30) days after receipt of such notice, the Employer shall make any required
withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy loan and the Policy Owner shall pay the
Employer the applicable payment, if any. Upon receipt of payment from the Policy
Owner, or immediately following the withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy
loan if no payment is required, the Employer shall release the Assignment and
the Policy Owner shall have all rights, title, and interest in the Policy free
of all provisions and restrictions of the Assignment, the Agreement and this
Plan. 

b.              Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 8.02a, if the Participant is Terminated for Cause by
the Employer, then the Policy Owner shall have no right to acquire the
Employer's interest in the Policy. 

c.              If
the Policy Owner fails to exercise his right to acquire the Employer's interest
in the Policy pursuant to Section 8.02a or is precluded from exercising such
right pursuant to Section 8.02b, the Policy Owner shall transfer title to the
Policy to the Employer, free of all provisions and restrictions of the
Assignment, the Participant's Agreement and this Plan. 

d.              In
the event of a termination of a Participant's Agreement pursuant to the
Participant's election under Section 8.01 c, the Employer shall receive from the
Participant's Policy an amount equal to the Employer Account, with such amount
to be received through a withdrawal, partial surrender, policy loan, or some
combination thereof, as determined by the Employer. Immediately thereafter, the
Employer shall release the Assignment and the Policy Owner shall have all
rights, title and interest in the Policy free of all provisions and restrictions
of the Assignment, the Participant's Agreement, and this Plan. 

e.              Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 2.08 to the contrary, in the event of a termination of
a Participant's Agreement under Section 8.01d, prior to the application of
Section 8.02, the Employer Account shall be reduced to an amount equal to the
excess, if any, of the cash values of the Policy over the amount of cash value
necessary in order for such Policy to immediately qualify as a Permanent Policy
after withdrawal of such excess amount. The Employer shall receive from the
Policy the reduced Employer Account value and, with such amount to be received
through a withdrawal, partial surrender, policy loan, or some combination
thereof, as determined by the Employer, and shall, within thirty (30) days of
the Plan termination, release the Assignment and the Policy Owner shall have all
rights, title, and interest in the Policy free of all provisions and
restrictions of the Assignment, the Agreement and this Plan. 

8.03              Release
of Assignment. At the end of each Policy Year for a Participant's Policy, the
Plan Administrator shall determine whether a withdrawal from the Policy by the
Employer of an amount equal to the Employer Account, and a release of the
Assignment, shall occur with respect to the Participant's Policy. Such
withdrawal and release shall be made within ninety (90) days after the end of
the first Policy Year as of the end of which: (1) the Participant's Policy would
qualify as a Permanent Policy following such withdrawal by the Employer; and,
(2) the Participant's Policy would not constitute a Modified Endowment Contract
(as such term is defined in Section 7702A of the Internal Revenue Code)
following such withdrawal. The Employer withdrawal shall be made though a
withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy loan, or some combination thereof, as
determined by the Employer. Immediately after receiving the proceeds of the
withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy loan, the Employer shall release the
Assignment and the Policy Owner shall have all rights, title and interest in the
Policy free of all provisions and restrictions of the Assignment, the
Participant's Agreement and this Plan. 

8.04              Allocation
of Death Benefit. In the event of a termination under Section 8.01e or 8.01f of
the Plan, the death benefit under the Participant's Policy shall be divided as
follows: 

a.              The
beneficiary or beneficiaries of the Policy Owner shall be entitled to receive an
amount equal to the Coverage Amount. 

b.              The
Employer shall be entitled to receive the balance of the death
benefit. 

8.05              Employer
Undertakings. Upon the death of the Participant (or, in the case of Survivorship
Coverage, the death of the last survivor of the Participant and the
Participant's spouse) while the Participant's Agreement is in force, the
Employer agrees to take such action as may be necessary to obtain payment from
the Insurer of the death benefit to the beneficiaries, including, but not
limited to, providing the Insurer with an affidavit as to the amount to which
the Employer is entitled under the Agreement and this Plan. 

9.              GOVERNING
LAWS AND NOTICES 

9.01              Governing
Law. This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
the State of Georgia. 

9.02              Notices.   All
notices hereunder shall be in writing and sent by first class mail with postage
prepaid. Any notice to the Employer shall be addressed to BellSouth Corporation
at its office at 1155 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, GA 30367-6000, ATTENTION:
Human Resources-Director Executive Benefits. Any notice to the Employee shall be
addressed to the Employee at the address following such party's signature on his
Agreement. Any party may change the address for such party herein set forth by
giving notice of such change to the other parties pursuant to this
Section. 

10.              NOT
A CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT 

This Plan and any Agreement executed
hereunder shall not be deemed to constitute a contract of employment between an
Employee and the Employer or a Participant and the Employer, nor shall any
provision restrict the right of the Employer to discharge an Employee or
Participant, or restrict the right of an Employee or Participant to terminate
employment. 

11.              AMENDMENT,
TERMINATION, ADMINISTRATION, CONSTRUCTION AND SUCCESSORS 

11.01            Amendment.
The Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation, or its delegate, shall have the
right in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan in whole or in part at any time
and from time to time. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall have the right,
in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time so
long as such amendment is not of a material nature. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no modification or amendment shall be effective so as to decrease any
benefits of a Participant unless the Participant consents in writing to such
modification or amendment. Written notice of any material modification or
amendment shall be given promptly to each Participant. 

11.02            Termination.
The Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation may terminate the Plan without
the consent of the Participants or Employees. Provided, however, in the event of
a termination of the Plan by the Employer, the Participants will have those
rights specified in Section 8.02e of the Plan. 

11.03           
Interpretation. As to the provisions of the Assignment, the Agreement and the
Plan, the provisions of the Assignment shall control. As between the Agreement
and the Plan, the provisions of the Agreement shall control. 

11.04            Successors.
The terms and conditions of this Plan shall endure to the benefit of and bind
the Employer, the Participant, their successors, assignees, and representatives.
If, subsequent to the Effective Date of the Plan, substantially all of the stock
or assets of the Employer are acquired by another corporation or entity or if
the Employer is merged into, or consolidated with, another corporation or
entity, then the obligations created hereunder shall be obligations of the
acquirer or successor corporation or entity. 

12.              PLAN
ADMINISTRATION 

12.01            Individual
Administrator. If the Plan Administrator is an individual, he shall act and
record his actions in writing. Any matter concerning specifically such
individual's own benefit or rights hereunder shall be determined by the Board of
Directors of BellSouth Corporation or its delegate. 

12.02            Administrative
Committee. If the Plan Administrator is a committee, or if any of the duties or
responsibilities of the Plan Administrator are vested in a committee, action of
the Plan Administrator may be taken with or without a meeting of committee
members; provided, action shall be taken only upon the vote or other affirmative
expression of a majority of the committee members qualified to vote with respect
to such action. If a member of the committee is a Participant, he shall not
participate in any decision which solely affects his own benefit under the Plan.
For purposes of administering the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall choose a
secretary who shall keep minutes of the committee's proceedings and all records
and documents pertaining to the administration of the Plan. The secretary may
execute any certificate or other written direction on behalf of the Plan
Administrator. 

12.03            Rights
and Duties of the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator shall administer
the Plan and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish that purpose,
including (but not limited to) the following: 

a.              to
construe, interpret and administer the Plan; 

b.              to
make determinations required by the Plan, and to maintain 

c.              records
regarding Participants' benefits hereunder; 

d.       to compute and
certify the amount and kinds of benefits payable to Participants, and to
determine the time and manner in which such benefits are to be
paid; 

e.              to
authorize all disbursements pursuant to the Plan; 

f.              to
maintain all the necessary records of the administration of the
Plan; 

g.              to
make and publish such rules and procedures for the regulation of the Plan as are
not inconsistent with the terms hereof. 

h.              to
designate to other individuals or entities from time to time the performance of
any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder; and 

i.              to
hire agents, accountants, actuaries, consultants and legal counsel to assist in
operating and administering the Plan. 

The Plan Administrator shall have the
exclusive right to construe and interpret the Plan, to decide all questions of
eligibility for benefits and to determine the amount of benefits, and its
decisions on such matters shall be final and conclusive on all
parties. 

12.04           Bond;
Compensation. The Plan Administrator and (if applicable) its members shall serve
as such without bond and without compensation for services
hereunder. 

13.              CLAIMS
PROCEDURE 

13.01            Named
Fiduciary. The Plan Administrator is hereby designated as the named fiduciary
under this Plan. 

13.02            Claims
Procedures. Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Plan
shall be filed with the Plan Administrator which shall make all determinations
concerning such claim. Any decision by the Plan Administrator denying such claim
shall be in writing and shall be delivered to all parties in interest in
accordance with the notice provisions of Section 9.02 hereof. Such decision
shall set forth the reasons for denial in plain language. Pertinent provisions
of the Plan shall be cited and, where appropriate, an explanation as to how the
Employee can perfect the claim will be provided. This notice of denial of
benefits will be provided within 90 days of the Plan Administrator's receipt of
the Employee's claim for benefits. If the Plan Administrator fails to notify the
Employee of its decision regarding the claim, the claim shall be considered
denied, and the Employee shall then be permitted to proceed with the appeal as
provided in this Section. 

An Employee who has been completely
or partially denied a benefit shall be entitled to appeal this denial of his/her
claim by filing a written statement of his/her position with the Plan
Administrator no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the written
notification of such claim denial. The Plan Administrator shall schedule an
opportunity for a full and fair review of the issue within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the appeal. The decision on review shall set forth specific reasons
for the decision, and shall cite specific references to the pertinent Plan
provisions on which the decision is based. 

Following the review of any
additional information submitted by the Employee, either through the hearing
process or otherwise, the Plan Administrator shall render a decision on the
review of the denied claim in the following manner: 

a.              The
Plan Administrator shall make its decision regarding the merits of the denied
claim within 60 days following receipt of the request for review (or within 120
days after such receipt, in a case where there are special circumstances
requiring extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim). The Plan
Administrator shall deliver the decision to the claimant in writing. If an
extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim is required because of
special circumstances, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the
Employee prior to the commencement of the extension. If the decision on review
is not furnished within the prescribed time, the claim shall be deemed denied on
review. 

b.              The
decision on review shall set forth specific reasons for the decision, and shall
cite specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision
is based. 

Exhibit
"A" 

      BellSouth
Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan 

      Agreement 

This Agreement is made effective as
of January l' 1998, by and between the Employer and ______________ (the
"Participant"). 

WHEREAS, the Employer and the
Participant executed an agreement (the 'Prior Agreement') under the [BellSouth
Corporation Executive life Insurance Plan] [BellSouth Corporation Senior Manager
Life Insurance Plan] (the Prior Plan): and 

WHEREAS, the Prior Plan has been
amended and restated as the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan (the
"Plan"): and 

WHEREAS, in exchange for coverage
under the Plan as amended and restated, the Participant consents and agrees to
the terms of the Plan, as amended and restated: 

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of
the promises contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Employer and the
Participant hereby mutually covenant and agree as follows: 

1.           This
Agreement shall constitute an amendment and restatement of the Prior Agreement
and, as of the effective date of this Agreement, the Prior Plan and Prior
Agreement shall be tent1inated and replaced by the Plan and this
Agreement 

2.           The
Policy subject to this Agreement is Policy number ________________, issued by
Pacific Life Insurance Company (the  Replacement Policy, which
replaces the Replaced Policy. As of the effective date of this Agreement, no
further benefits will be provided to the Participant or Employer under the
Replaced Policy, and such Policy will be canceled. 

3           The
Replaced Policy Cash Value shall be transferred directly to the Replacement
Policy as of the effective date of this Agreement 

4.           The
Coverage Amount shall be $ __________ of [Single Life] [Survivorship]
Coverage. 

5           The
Premium Payment Years shall be consecutive Policy Years. 

6.           For
each Policy Year beginning after 1998, the total Policy premium for each year
which is a Premium Payment Year shall be $ ______________, and the Employer
Premium shall equal such total Policy premium reduced by the Participant Premium
payable by the Participant for such Policy Year. 

7.           The
Policy Owner for the Replacement Policy shall be the same as the Policy Owner
for the Replaced Policy. 

8.           The
Participant agrees to pay the Participant Premium contribution as specified in
the Plan, and consents to paying such amount to the Employer through regular
payroll (or retirement income) deductions. 

9           The
Participant has read and understands the provisions of the Plan, and agrees that
all of the terms and conditions specified in the Plan are hereby incorporated by
reference herein and form a part of this Agreement 

10           Subject
to the terms of the Plan, this Agreement shall not be amended or modified
without the written consent of the Participant and the Employer. 

11.           This
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia. 

_________________________                  _________________________ 

      Date                                                                    For
the Employer 

_________________________                  _________________________ 

      Date                                                                    Signature
of Participant 

_________________________ 

_________________________ 

_________________________ 

                               Address
of Participant 

This
Assignment is made by the undersigned Policy Owner effective January
1, 

      1998. 

DEFINITIONS: 

ASSIGNEE:                                               BellSouth
Corporation 

PARTICIPANT: 

POLICY
OWNER: 

INSURED(S): 

INSURER:                                                                    Pacific
life Insurance Company 

POLICY:                                                                     
 Policy # __________ issued by the insurer 

REPLACED
POLICY:                                                 Policy
# __________ issued by the Insurer 

SPLIT-DOLLAR
LIFE
INSURANCE                        That
certain Agreement executed 

      PLAN
AGREEMENT (THE "AGREEMENT")        to be
effective on January 1, 1998, 

                                   between
the Participant and the 

                                   Assignee. 

COVERAGE
      AMOUNT 

That
      portion of the death benefit 

coverage
      under the Policy equal to 

$_______________ 

RECITALS: 

1.           The
benefits provided to the Policy Owner under the Policy replace those previously
provided under the Replaced Policy. 

2.           Under
the Agreement, the Assignee has agreed to assist the Policy Owner in the payment
of premiums on the Policy issued by the Insurer. 

3.           In
consideration of such premium payments by the Assignee, the undersigned Policy
Owner intends to grant the Assignee certain limited interests in the
Policy. 

THEREFORE,
for value received, it is agreed: 

1.           ASSIGNMENT.
The Policy Owner hereby assigns, transfers, and sets over to the Assignee, its
successors and assigns, the following specific rights in the Policy and subject
to the following tenT1S and conditions: 

a.           the
sole right to make withdrawals or borrow against the cash value of the Policy,
as provided in Sections 8.02a, 8.02d, 8.02e and 8.03 of the Plan; 

b.           the
right to receive from the Insurer upon the death of the Insured(s) the proceeds
of the Policy in excess of the Coverage Amount; 

c.           the
sole right to surrender all or a portion of the Policy and receive the surrender
value thereof, as provided in Sections 8.02a, 8.02d, 8.02e and 8.03 of the
Plan. 

2.           RETAINED
RIGHTS. Except as expressly provided in Section 1, the Policy Owner retains all
rights under the Policy including but not limited to: 

a.           the
right to designate and change the beneficiary; and 

b.           the
right to elect any optional mode of settlement entitled by the Policy or
Insurer, subject only to the Assignee's right in Section 1.(b). 

3.           AUTHORIZATION.
For purposes of Sections 1 and 2, the signature of either the Assignee or the
Policy Owner shall be sufficient Both the Assignee and the Policy Owner
acknowledge that between themselves, they are bound by the limitations of this
Assignment and that the Insurer will recognize the signature of
either. 

4.           INSURER.
The Insurer is hereby authorized to recognize, and is fully protected in
recognizing the claims of the Assignee to rights hereunder, without
investigating the reasons for such action by the Assignee, or the validity or
the amount of such claims, nor giving notice to the Policy Owner of such claims
of rights or interest to exercise such rights. Insurer reserves the right to
require signatures of both the Assignee and the Policy Owner to exercise any or
all ownership rights, as is their normal procedure. 

5.           DEATH
PROCEEDS. The Insurer shall pay to the Assignee that portion of the death
benefit to which it is entitled. Payment by the Insurer of any or all of the
death proceeds to the Assignee in reliance upon a signed authorization by any
officer of the Assignee as to the share of death proceeds due it shall be a full
discharge of the Insurer for such share and shall be binding on all parties
claiming any interest in the Policy. 

6.           RELEASE
OF ASSIGNMENT. Upon payment to the Assignee of those amounts due to it under the
terms of the Agreement, the Assignee shall execute a written release of this
Assignment to the Insurer who may then treat the Policy Owner of the Policy as
the sole Policy Owner for all purposes. 

7.           ASSIGNMENT
CONTROLS. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Assignment
and provisions of the Agreement with respect to the Policy or rights of
collateral assignment therein, the provisions of this Assignment shall
prevail. 

8.           CANCELLATION
OF REPLACED POLICY. The Policy Owner agrees that no further benefits will be
provided under the Replaced Policy, and that benefits provided under the Policy
are in lieu of the benefits previously provided under the Replaced
Policy. 

IN
TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the Policy Owner has executed this Assignment to be effective
January 1, 1998. 

________________________ 

        Signature of Policy Owner 

________________________ 

        Date 

BELLSOUTH
CORPORATION 

      EXECUTIVE
LONG TERM DISABILITY 

      AND 

      SURVIVOR
PROTECTION PLAN 

BELLSOUTH
CORPORATION 

      EXECUTIVE
LONG TERM DISABILITY 

      AND 

      SURVIVOR
PROTECTION PLAN 

TABLE OF
CONTENTS 

Section
      1   
               Definition  
             
                 1 

Section
      2   
               Disability
      Allowance  
             
                 1 

Section
      3     
               Group
      Life Insurance Benefit  
             
                 10 

Section
      4  
               Medical
      Expense Benefit  
             
                 11 

Section
      5  
               Claims
      and Appeals  
             
                 11 

Section
      6  
               General
      Provision  
             
                 11 

BellSouth
Corporation 

      Executive
Long Term Disability and 

      Survivor
Protection Plan 

Section
1.                                         Definitions 

1.           "Plan"
shall mean the BellSouth Corporation's Executive Long Term Disability and
Survivor Protection Plan. 

2.           "Company"
shall mean the BellSouth Corporation, a Georgia corporation, or its
successors. 

3.           "Pension
Plan" shall mean the BellSouth Personal Retirement Account Pension
Plan. 

4.           "Disability
Benefit Plan" shall mean the Company's Short Term Disability Plan and Long-Term
Disability Plan. 

5.           "Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan" shall mean the BellSouth Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan. 

6.           "Short
Term Plan" shall mean the Company's Short Term Incentive Plan. 

7.           "Committee"
shall mean the Employee's Benefit Committee, appointed by the Company, which
shall administer the Plan. 

8.           (a)           "Participant,"
for purposes of the disability allowance under section 2, shall mean an employee
on the active rolls of the Company on or after the effective date of the plan
and who holds a position that the Company's Board of Directors has designated to
be within the Company's Executive Group. 

(b)           "Participant,"
for purposes of the BellSouth Group Life Plan benefit under Section 3, shall
mean a former employee of the Company who was a participant under a paragraph
8(a) above on the last day of employment, if such former employee is eligible to
receive a disability allowance under Section 2, or is eligible to receive a
Minimum Retirement Benefit under the Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plan. 

(c)           "Participant,"
for purposes of the medical benefits under Section 4, shall mean a former
employee of the Company who was a participant under paragraph 8(a) above on the
last day of employment, if such former employee is eligible to receive a
Disability Allowance under Section 2. 

(d)           For
purposes of paragraphs 8(b), and 8(c), above, a former employee shall be
considered to be eligible to receive Disability Allowance under Section 2 or a
Minimum Retirement Benefit under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan if
he has met the conditions specified in Section 2 or the Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan, even though the receipt of other benefits by such former
employee precludes his receipt of any benefits under Section 2 or the
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. 

9.           "Term
of Employment" shall have the same meaning as the meaning assigned to such
expression in the Pension Plan. 

10.           (a)           "Annual
Basic Pay," shall mean the participant's annual base salary rate (including
those amounts previously deferred pursuant to other plans) as determined by the
Company on the last day the participant was on the active payroll plus an amount
determined was on the active payroll plus an amount determined with reference to
the Short Term Incentive Plan, but excluding all other payments and all cash
payments and distributions made under the BellSouth Executive Long Term
Incentive Plan or Shareholder Return Cash Plan. The amount determined with
reference to the Short Term Incentive Plan shall be the lesser of the
participant's standard short term award in effect on the last day the
participant was on the active payroll or 60% of the participant's annual base
salary rate (including those amounts previously deferred pursuant to other
plans) on the last day participant was on active payroll. 

11.           The
use of personal pronouns of the masculine and feminine genders. 

Section
2.                                         Disability
Allowance 

1.            
(a)           Participant
shall be considered to be a "disabled" at any time during the first twenty-six
week period following the onset of a physical or mental impairment, if such
impairment prevents the participant from meeting the performance requirements of
the position held immediately preceding the onset of the physical or mental
impairment. 

(b)           A
participant shall be considered to be "disabled" after the first twenty-six week
period following the onset of a physical or mental impairment if such impairment
prevents the participant from meeting the performance requirements of (1) the
position held immediately preceding the onset of the physical or mental
impairment, (2) a similar position, or (3) any appropriate portion within the
Company which the participant would otherwise be capable of performing by reason
of the participant's background and experience. 

(c)           The
Committee shall make the determination of whether a participant is disabled
within the meaning of paragraphs (a) and (b) above and its determinations shall
be final and conclusive. 

2.           A
participant who is disabled during a period described in paragraph 1(a) shall be
eligible to receive a monthly disability allowance equal to 100 percent of the
participant's monthly base salary rate (including those amounts previously
deferred pursuant to other plans) on the last day the participant was on the
active payroll, reduced by any amounts described in paragraph 5(a) of this
Section 2 which are attributable to the period for which benefits are provided
under this paragraph. 

3.           A
participant who is disabled during a period described in paragraph 1(b) shall,
prior to his sixty-fifth birthday, be eligible to receive a monthly disability
allowance equal to the greater of (i) sixty percent or (ii) the percentage
determined by adding ten percentage points to participant's income replacement
percentage under the basic Company-sponsored long-term disability coverage, of
the participant's monthly base salary rate (including those amounts previously
deferred pursuant to other plans) on the last day the participant was on the
active payroll, reduced by any amounts described in paragraph 5(b) of this
Section 2 which are attributable to the period for which benefits are provided
under this paragraph. 

4.           A
participant who is disabled during a period described in paragraph 1(b) shall
commencing with his sixty-fifth birthday or the start of the period described in
paragraph 1(b), if later, be eligible to receive a monthly disability allowance
equal to the greater of: 

(i)           one
and one-quarter percent of the participant's annual basic pay, as defined in
paragraph 10 of Section 1, on the last day the participant was on the active
payroll, or 

(ii)           if
the participant's term of employment has been five years or more, ninety percent
of the sum of (a) the monthly pension the participant would have been entitled
to receive commencing at age sixty-five under the Company's Pension Plan as in
effect on the last day the participant was on the active payroll, but ignoring
any minimum service requirements for eligibility to a service pension, if the
period after the last day the participant's sixty-fifth birthday had been
included in the participant's term of employment under the Pension Plan, plus
(b) the monthly pension the participant would have been entitled to receive
commencing at age 65 under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as in
effect on the last day the participant was on the active payroll, but ignoring
any minimum service requirements for eligibility to a pension if the period
after the last day the participant was on the active payroll and prior to the
participant's sixty-fifth birthday had been included in the participant's term
of employment under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, reduced by any
amounts described in paragraph 5(c) of this Section 2 which are attributable to
the period for which benefits are provided under this paragraph. 

5.           (a)           The
disability allowance determined for any period under paragraph 2 of this Section
2 shall be reduced by the sum of the following benefits received by the
participant which are attributable to the period for which such disability
allowance is provided; a service, deferred vested, or disability pension under
the Pension Plan or the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, a disability
benefit under the disability benefit plan, any worker's compensation benefit,
plus any other benefit payments required by law on account of the participant's
disability. However, no reduction shall be made on account of any pension under
the Pension Plan or the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan at a rate greater
than the rate of such pension on the date the participant first received such
pension after his disability. 

(b)           The
disability allowance determined for any period under paragraph 3 of this Section
2 shall be reduced by the sum of the following benefits received by the
participant which are attributable to the period for which such disability
allowance is provided; a service, deferred vested, or disability pension under
the Pension Plan or the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, a disability
benefit under the disability benefit plan, any other retirement income payments
from the Company, any worker's compensation benefit, plus any Social Security
Insurance Benefit. 

However, no reduction shall be made
on account of any pension under the Pension Plan or the Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan at a rate greater than the rate of such pension on the date the
participant first received such pension after his disability, and no reduction
shall be made on account of any Social Security Benefit at a rate greater than
the rate which the participant would have first been eligible to receive after
his disability and as if no other member of his family were eligible for any
Social Security Benefit. 

Furthermore, the Board of Directors
of the Company, in its discretion, may reduce the disability allowance by the
amount of outside compensation or earnings of the participant for work performed
by the participant during the period for which such disability allowance is
provided. 

(c)           The
disability allowance determined for any period under paragraph 4 of this Section
2 shall be reduced by the sum of the following benefits received by the
participant which are attributable to the period for which such disability
allowance is provided; a service, deferred vested, or disability pension under
the Pension Plan or the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, a disability
benefit under the disability benefit plan, any other retirement income payments
from the Company, plus any worker's compensation benefit. However, no reduction
shall be made on account of any pension under the Pension Plan or the
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan at a rate greater than the rate of such
pension on the date the participant first received such pension after his
disability. 

6.           For
purposes of paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) of this Section 2, the measurement of time
following the onset of a physical or mental impairment shall coincide with the
measurement of time used to calculate periods of disability benefits under the
disability benefit plan. Successive periods of physical or mental impairment
shall be counted together in computing the periods during which the participant
shall be entitled to the benefits provided under paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 of
this Section 2, except that any disability absence after the participant has
been continuously engaged in the performance of duty for thirteen weeks shall be
considered to commence a new period of physical or mental impairment under
paragraph 1(a), so that such participant shall be entitled during such new
period to the benefits provided under paragraph 2 of this Section
2. 

7.           With
respect to a participant not subject to mandatory retirement at age 65 under the
Age Discrimination in Employment Act (29 U.S.C. 6721 et. seq.), the period of
eligibility for the disability allowance provided in paragraph 3 of this section
2 and the period of eligibility for the disability allowance provided in
paragraph 4 of this section 2, shall be the period described in paragraph 3, and
the period described in paragraph 4, respectively, or such other period as is
required under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act or under any applicable
governing regulations or interpretations thereunder. 

Section
3                                         Group
Life Insurance Benefit 

A
participant described in paragraph 8(b) of Section 1 who has not retired on a
service or a disability pension under the Pension Plan, shall be entitled to the
same rights and benefits under the BellSouth Group Life Plan as if the employee
had retired on a service pension or a disability pension under the Pension Plan.
Benefits provided by this section shall be in lieu of any other rights to
continued coverage which a participant may have under the BellSouth Group Life
Plan. 

Section
4                                         Medical
Expense Benefits 

A
participant described in paragraph 8(c) of Section 1 who has not retired on a
service pension or a disability pension under the Pension Plan, shall be
entitled to the same rights and benefits under the Company's medical plan and
dental plan as an employee who retired on a service pension or a disability
pension under the Pension Plan. 

Section
5                                         Claims
and Appeals 

Any claim
under the Plan by a Participant or anyone claiming through a Participant shall
be presented to the Committee. Any person whose claim under the Plan has been
denied may, within 60 days after receipt of notice of denial, submit to the
Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors a written request for
review of the decision denying the claim. The Compensation Committee of the
Company's Board of Directors shall determine conclusively for all parties all
questions arising in the administration of the Plan. 

Section
6                                         General
Provisions 

1.           The
Plan shall be effective on January 1, 1984. 

2.           
The rights of the participant or his spouse to benefits under the Plan shall not
be subject to assignment or alienation. 

3.           All
costs of providing the benefits under the Plan shall be charged to the operating
expense accounts of the Company when and as paid. 

4.           The
Company may from time to time make changes in the Plan and the Company may
terminate the Plan. In addition, the Company's senior human resources officer
with the concurrence of the Company's general counsel shall be authorized to
make minor or administrative changes to the Plan, as well as changes dictated by
the requirements of federal or state statutes applicable to the Company or
authorized or made desirable by such statutes. Such changes or termination shall
not affect the rights of any participant or surviving spouse, without his
consent, to any benefit under the Plan to which such participant or surviving
spouse may have previously become entitled as a result of a disability, death or
termination of employment which occurred prior to the effective date of such
change or termination. 

5.           In
the case of accident resulting in injury to or death of a participant which
entitles the participant or his surviving spouse to benefits under the Plan, the
participant or his surviving spouse may elect to accept such benefits or to
prosecute such claims at law as the participant or the surviving spouse may have
against the Company. If election is made to accept the benefits under the Plan,
such election shall be in writing and shall release the Company from all claims
and demands which the participant or his surviving spouse may have against it,
otherwise than under this Plan or under any other Plan maintained by the
Company, on account of such accident. The Committee, in its discretion, may
require that election described above shall release any other company connected
with the accident, including any company participating in the Pension Plan. The
right of the Participant to a disability allowance under Section 2 of the Plan
shall lapse if election to accept such benefits, as above provided, is not made
within sixty days after injury, or within such greater time as the Committee
shall, by resolution duly entered on its records, fix for the making of such
election. 

6.           Should
claim other than under this Plan or under any other plan maintained by the
Company be presented or suit brought against the Company, against any other
company participating in the Pension Plan or against any other company for which
arrangements have been made, directly or indirectly, for interchange of benefit
obligations, as described in the Pension Plan, for damages on account of injury
or death of a participant, nothing shall be payable under this Plan on account
of such injury or death as provided in paragraph 7 of this Section 6; provided
however, that the Committee may, in its discretion and upon such terms as it may
prescribe waive this provision if such claims be withdrawn or if such suit be
discontinued. 

7.           In
case any judgment is recovered against the company or any settlement is made of
any claim or suit on an account of the injury or death of a participant, and the
total amount which would otherwise have been payable under the Plan and under
any other Plan maintained by the Company is greater than the amount paid on
account of such judgment or settlement, the lessor of (1) difference between
such two amounts, or (2) the amount which would otherwise have been payable
under this Plan, may in the discretion of the committee, be distributed to the
beneficiaries who would have received benefits under the Plan. 

8.           All
benefits provided under the Plan with respect to a participant shall be
forfeited and canceled in their entirely if the participant, without the consent
of the Company and while employed by the Company or after termination of such
employment, becomes associated with, becomes employed by or renders services to
or owns interest in any business (other than as a shareholder with a
non-substantial interest in such business) that is competitive with the Company
or with any business with which a subsidiary or affiliated company has a
substantial interest, as determined by the Committee. All benefits provided
under the Plan with respect to a participant shall be forfeited and canceled in
their entirety if the participant is discharged by the Company for cause or the
participant engages in misconduct in connection with the participant's
employment. 

EXHIBIT
C 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS BLS EXECUTIVE TRANSITION SUPPLEMENTAL LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

1.           Section
1 "Purpose" shall be restated as follows: "The purpose of the Cingular Wireless
BLS Executive Transition Supplemental Life Insurance Plan is to provide an
insurance arrangement under which Cingular Wireless LLC and its subsidiaries and
affiliates can assist key employee in acquiring and financing life insurance
coverage. The Cingular Wireless BLS Executive Transition Supplemental Life
Insurance Plan is intended as a follow on and continuation of the BellSouth
Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of December 23,
2001. The terms of the BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance Plan in effect on
December 23, 2001, except as herein amended, are incorporated by reference and
made a part of the Plan." 

2.           All
references in the Plan to BellSouth Corporation shall be deemed to reference to
Cingular Wireless. 

3.           Eligibility
and Participation. Participation in the Plan shall be limited to those former
executives who (a) were eligible to participate in the BellSouth Supplemental
Life Insurance Plan, (b) were contributed to Cingular Wireless as part of the
formation of Cingular Wireless LLC on or before December 31, 2001 and (c) are
identified by name as eligible to continue participation in this Plan on
Appendix B, hereto. No other Cingular Wireless employees are eligible to
participate in or receive benefits from the plans. 

4.           Section
2.01 "Coverage Amount" means the existing coverage levels as set forth in the
BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance Plan's Participant's Policy in effect at
the employee's contribution to Cingular Wireless. Increased coverage levels will
not be available under the Cingular Wireless BLS Executive Transition
Supplemental Life Insurance Plan pursuant to Section 4.02. 

5.           Section
2.06 "Employer" means Cingular Wireless LLC and any subsidiary or affiliate of
Cingular Wireless LLC that is authorized by Cingular Wireless to participate in
the Plan. 

6.           Section
2.14 "Plan" means the Cingular Wireless BLS Executive Transition Supplemental
Life Insurance Plan. 

7.           Section
2.15 "Plan Administrator" means the Senior Vice President   Human Resources of
the Employer and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf
with respect to any or all of his responsibilities hereunder. Pursuant to
Section 9, the Senior Vice President   Human Resources shall be authorized to
modify or terminate the plan at any time. 

8.           Section
4.02 "Promotions" shall be restated as follows: "No additional coverage amounts
will be provided with respect to promotions or any other event." 

9.           Section
7.02 is amended to insert Cingular's address in the place of BellSouth's:
Glenridge Highlands Two, Suite 760 Executive Director-Executive Benefits, 5565
Glenridge Connector, Atlanta, GA 30342. 

10.           Any
references to the Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation shall be deemed to
be a reference to the Board of Directors/Strategic Review Committee of Cingular
Wireless Corporation. 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS BLS EXECUTIVE TRANSITION SPLIT DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

1.           Section
1. "Purpose" shall be restated as follows: "The purpose of the Cingular Wireless
BLS Executive Transition Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan is to provide a
split-dollar insurance arrangement under which Cingular Wireless LLC and its
subsidiaries and affiliates can assist key employee in acquiring and financing
life insurance coverage. The Cingular Wireless BLS Executive Transition
Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan is intended as a follow on and continuation of
the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of
December 23, 2001. The terms of the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan
in effect on December 23, 2001, except as herein amended, are incorporated by
reference and made a part of the Plan." 

2.           All
references in the Plan to BellSouth Corporation shall be deemed to be a
reference to Cingular Wireless LLC. 

3.           Eligibility
and Participation. Participation in the Plans shall be limited to those former
executives who (a) were eligible to participate in the BellSouth Split-Dollar
Life Insurance Plan, (b) were contributed to Cingular Wireless as part of the
formation of Cingular Wireless LLC on or before December 31, 2001, and (c) are
identified by name as eligible to continue participation in this Plan on
Appendix B, hereto. No other Cingular Wireless employees are eligible to
participate in or receive benefits from the plan. 

4.           Section
2.07 "Employer" means Cingular Wireless LLC and any subsidiary or affiliate of
Cingular Wireless LLC that is authorized by Cingular Wireless to participate in
the Plan. 

5.           Section
2.17 "Plan" means the Cingular Wireless BLS Executive Transition Split-Dollar
Life Insurance Plan. The remaining provisions of Section 2.17 of the BellSouth
Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan remain in effect. 

6.           Section
2.18 "Plan Administrator" means the Senior Vice President - Human Resources of
the Employer and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf
with respect to any or all of his responsibilities hereunder. Pursuant to
Section 11, the Senior Vice President - Human Resources shall be authorized to
modify or terminate the plan at any time. 

7.           Coverage
levels will be based on existing coverage levels as set forth in the BellSouth
Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan Agreement in effect at the employee's
contribution to Cingular Wireless. 

8.           Section
7.02 is amended to insert Cingular's address in the place of BellSouth's:
Glenridge Highlands Two, Suite 760 Executive Director-Executive Benefits, 5565
Glenridge Connector, Atlanta, GA 30342 

9.           Any
references to the Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation shall be deemed to
be a reference to the Board of Directors/Strategic Review Committee of Cingular
Wireless Corporation. 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS BLS EXECUTIVE TRANSITION LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN 

1.           Section
1.1 "Plan" shall be mean the Cingular Wireless BLS Executive Transition Long
Term Disability Plan. The purpose of this plan is to provide supplemental
disability coverage to the group disability plan. The Cingular Wireless BLS
Executive Transition Long Term Disability Plan is intended as a follow on and
continuation of the BellSouth Corporation Executive Long Term Disability and
Survivor Protection Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of December 31, 2001.
The terms of the BellSouth Corporation Executive Long Term Disability and
Survivor Protection Plan in effect on December 31, 2001, except as herein
amended, are incorporated by reference and made a part of the Plan. 

2.           Any
reference to BellSouth Corporation shall be deemed to reference Cingular
Wireless LLC. Any reference to BellSouth shall be deemed to reference Cingular
Wireless. 

3.           Section
1.2 "Company" shall be amended to insert Cingular Wireless in the place of
BellSouth Corporation. 

4.           Section
1.3 "Pension Plan" shall mean the Cingular Wireless Pension Plan. 

5.           Section
1.5 "Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan" shall mean the BellSouth
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. 

6.           Section
1.6 "Short Term Plan" shall mean short term incentive awards granted under the
comparable Cingular Wireless plan, if any. 

7.           Section
1.7 "Committee" shall be amended to mean the Cingular Wireless Benefit Committee
appointed by the Senior Vice President   Human Resources. 

8.           Eligibility
and Participation. Participation in the plan shall be limited to those former
BLS executives who (a) previously participated in BellSouth Corporation
Executive Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan, (b) were
contributed to Cingular Wireless as part of the formation of Cingular Wireless
on or before December 31, 2001, and (c) are specifically identified on Appendix
B, hereto. No other Cingular Wireless employees are eligible to participate in
or receive benefits from the Cingular Wireless BLS Executive Transition Long
Term Disability Plan. 

9.           Section
1.10 "Annual Basic Pay" shall be amended to replace the BellSouth Executive Long
Term Incentive Plan with the comparable Cingular Wireless plan, if any, and to
delete any reference to the Shareholder Return Cash Plan. 

10.           Section
2.5(b) The Board of Directors shall mean the Cingular Wireless Board of
Directors. 

11.           The
Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President   Human Resources of the
Employer and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with
respect to any or all of his responsibilities hereunder. Pursuant to Section
6.4, the Senior Vice President - Human Resources shall be authorized to modify
or terminate the plan at any time. 

</EX-10.CCC>

<EX-10.DDD>
 27
 ex10ddd.htm
 CINGULAR WIRELESS SBC EXECUTIVE TRANSITION BENEFIT PLAN

ex10ddd.htm 

Exhibit
10-ddd 

CINGULAR WIRELESS SBC TRANSITION
EXECUTIVE BENEFIT PLAN  

WHEREAS, Cingular Wireless Corporation
is the manager of Cingular Wireless LLC (the "Company"); and 

WHEREAS, SBC Communications, Inc.
("SBC") maintains, for the benefit of certain highly compensated and key
management employees, the (1) the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP"),
(2) the Pension Make Up Plan, (3) the Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, (3) the
Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan ("SIAD"), (4) the Senior Management
Long Term Disability Plan and (5) the Executive Health Plan (collectively the
"SBC Plans") (copies of such plans are attached as Exhibit A hereto);
and 

WHEREAS, certain former SBC employees,
who have been contributed to the Company or an affiliate of the Company, were
eligible to participate and receive benefits under the SBC Plans (the
"Transition Executives"); and 

WHEREAS, the Transition Executives are
identified by name and the SBC Plan(s) in which they participated on Exhibit B
hereto; and 

WHEREAS, the Company desires to adopt
the provisions and benefits of the SBC Plans into a new Company plan for the
Transition Executives, so that they may continue to benefit from the provisions
of the SBC Plans following their contribution to the Company; and 

WHEREAS, the new plan shall be known as
the Cingular Wireless SBC Transition Executive Benefit Plan (the "Cingular
Plan"); and 

WHEREAS, the terms of the Cingular Plan
shall incorporate by reference the terms of the SBC Plans and shall be the same
terms as in effect for the SBC Plans on October 28, 2001, including any
amendments adopted through such date, unless otherwise provided in these
resolutions or in Exhibit C hereto; and 

WHEREAS, the benefits provided to the
Transition Executives under the Cingular Plan shall be in lieu of the benefits
such employees would have been entitled to receive under the SBC Plans and shall
be offset against any benefits payable under the SBC Plans for any reason;
and 

WHEREAS, the Transition Executives, as
identified in Exhibit B, shall be the only employees of the Company and its
affiliates eligible to participate and receive benefits under the Cingular Plan
and no other employees of the Company or its affiliates shall be permitted to
participate in the Cingular 

      Plan; 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that
the Cingular Plan, as described herein, is hereby approved and adopted as
presented to the Board; provided, the Senior Vice President of Human Resources
of the Company is hereby authorized to approve and execute a plan document for
the Cingular Plan as he deems appropriate based on the advice of
counsel; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that with regard to
the Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, the Company is authorized to receive an
assignment of all of SBC's obligations, rights and interests in the Supplemental
Life Insurance Plan and any underlying policies of insurance, including the
obligation to administer the plan and pay any required company
contributions; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cingular
Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President - Human Resources of the
Company and his delegates; provided, however, that the Senior Vice President -
Human Resources shall be permitted to appoint third party administrators to
assist in the administration of the Cingular Plan; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Company
reserves the unilateral right to modify, amend or terminate the Cingular Plan at
any time for any reason, including the right to merge the Cingular Plan or any
benefit under it into another Company benefit plan that may provide for
different benefits than the Cingular Plan; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Chief
Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Senior Vice President of
Human Resources of the Company are hereby authorized to approve amendments to
the Cingular Plan from time to time as they deem necessary or appropriate
consistent with the Company's employee benefit policies and based on the input
of the Human Resources division, Finance division and other applicable divisions
within the Company; provided, no such amendment which is reasonably expected to
result in an increase in annual plan expense shall be effective without the
approval of the Board; 

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the appropriate
officers of the Company and its affiliates are hereby authorized to execute such
other documents and to take such actions as they may deem necessary or
appropriate to implement the Cingular Plan and to carry out the intent and
purposes of the foregoing resolutions as shall be necessary to comply with the
requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act and all other applicable laws; and 

RESOLVED, all prior actions taken by
any officer of the Corporation and any officers of the Company in connection
with the foregoing resolutions are hereby ratified. 

EXHIBIT
A 

      SBC
Communications Inc. 

SUPPLEMENTAL
RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN 

Effective:
January 1, 1984 

      Revisions
Effective: October 1, 2000 

Attachment
(Agreement) 

1.           PURPOSE.  The
purpose of the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ("Plan") is to provide
Eligible Employees with retirement benefits to supplement benefits payable
pursuant to SBC's qualified group pension plans. 

2.           DEFINITIONS.  For
purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

ADMINISTRATIVE
COMMITTEE.  "Administrative Committee" means a Committee consisting of
the Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources and two or more other
members designated by the Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources who
shall administer the Plan. 

AGREEMENT.  "Agreement"
means the written agreement (substantially in the form attached to this Plan)
that shall be entered into between SBC by the Senior Executive Vice
President-Human Resources and a Participant to carry out the Plan with respect
to such Participant.  Entry into a new Agreement shall not be required
upon amendment of the Plan or upon an increase in a Participant's Retirement
Percent (which increase shall nevertheless be utilized to determine the
Participant's benefits hereunder even though not reflected in the Participant's
Agreement), except entry into a new Agreement shall be required in the case of
an amendment which alters, to the detriment of a Participant, the benefits
described in this Plan as applicable to such Participant (See Section
6.5).  Such new Agreement shall operate as the written consent
required by Section 6.5 of the Participant to such amendment. 

BENEFICIARY.  "Beneficiary"
shall mean any beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Eligible Employee
pursuant to the SBC Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may hereafter
be amended from time-to-time ("Rules"). 

CHAIRMAN.  "Chairman"
shall mean the Chairman of the Board of SBC Communications Inc. 

DISABILITY.  "Disability"
means any Termination of Employment prior to being Retirement Eligible that the
Administrative Committee, in its complete and sole discretion, determines is by
reason of a Participant's total and permanent disability.  The
Administrative Committee may require that the Participant submit to an
examination by a competent physician or medical clinic selected by the
Administrative Committee.  On the basis of such medical evidence, the
determination of the Administrative Committee as to whether or not a condition
of total and permanent disability exists shall be conclusive. 

EARNINGS.  "Earnings"
means for a given calendar year the Participant's: (1) bonus made as a short
term award during the calendar year but not exceeding 200% of the target amount
of such bonus (or such other portion of the bonus as may be determined by the
Human Resources Committee of the Board of SBC), plus (2) base salary before
reduction due to any contribution pursuant to any deferred compensation plan or
agreement provided by SBC, including but not limited to compensation deferred in
accordance with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. 

ELIGIBLE
EMPLOYEE.  "Eligible Employee" means an Officer or a non-Officer
employee of any SBC company who is designated by the Chairman as eligible to
participate in the Plan.  Effective on and after July 1, 1994, only an
Officer may become an Eligible Employee. 

FINAL
AVERAGE EARNINGS.  "Final Average Earnings" means the average of the
Participant's Monthly Earnings for the thirty-six (36) consecutive months out of
the one hundred twenty (120) months next preceding the Participant's Termination
of Employment which yields the highest average earnings.  If the
Participant has fewer than thirty-six (36) months of employment, the average
shall be taken over his or her period of employment. 

IMMEDIATE
ANNUITY VALUE.  "Immediate Annuity Value" means the annual amount of
annuity payments that would be paid out of a plan on a single life annuity basis
if payment of the plan's benefit was commenced immediately upon Termination of
Employment, notwithstanding the form of payment of the plan's benefit actually
made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and
notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such
benefit. 

MID-CAREER
HIRE.  "Mid-Career Hire" means an individual hired or rehired at age
35 or older (i) into a position eligible for benefits under this Plan or (ii)
who is subsequently promoted to a position eligible for benefits under this
Plan. 

MONTHLY
EARNINGS.  "Monthly Earnings" means one-twelfth (1/12) of
Earnings. 

OFFICER.  "Officer"
shall mean an individual who is designated by the Chairman as eligible to
participate in the Plan who is an elected officer of SBC or of any SBC
subsidiary (direct or indirect). 

PARTICIPANT.  A
"Participant" means an Eligible Employee who has entered into an Agreement to
Participate in the Plan. 

RETIREMENT.  "Retirement"
shall mean the Termination of Employment of an Eligible Employee for reasons
other than death, on or after the earlier of the following dates: (1) the date
the Eligible Employee is Retirement Eligible or (2) the date the Eligible
Employee has attained one of the following combinations of age and service at
Termination of Employment on or after April 1, 1997, except as otherwise
indicated below: 

With
respect to an Eligible Employee who is granted an EMP Service Pension under and
pursuant to the provisions of the SBC Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained
Program ("SBCPBP") upon Termination of Employment, the term "Retirement" shall
include such Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment. 

RETIREMENT
ELIGIBLE.  "Retirement Eligible" or "Retirement Eligibility" means
that a Participant has attained age 55; provided, however, if (1) the
Participant is, or has been within the one year period immediately preceding the
relevant date, an Officer with 30 or more Years of Service and has not attained
age 55, or (2) the Participant has 15 or more Years of Service and has not
attained age 55 and is, or has been within the one year period immediately
preceding the relevant date, the Chairman or a Direct Reporting Officer as such
term is defined in SBC's Schedule of Authorizations, he shall nevertheless be
deemed to be Retirement Eligible.  Note: Any reference in any other
SBC plan to a person being eligible to retire with an immediate pension pursuant
to the SBC Supplemental Retirement Income Plan shall be interpreted as having
the same meaning as the term Retirement Eligible. 

RETIREMENT
PERCENT.  "Retirement Percent" means the percent specified in the
Agreement with the Participant which establishes a Target Retirement Benefit
(see Section 3.1) as a percentage of Final Average Earnings. 

SBC.  "SBC"
means SBC Communications Inc. 

SERVICE
FACTOR.  "Service Factor" means, unless otherwise agreed in writing by
the Participant and SBC, either (a) a deduction of 1.43 percent, or .715 percent
for Mid-Career Hires, multiplied by the number by which (i) thirty-five (or
thirty in the case of an Officer) exceeds (ii) the number of Years of Service of
the Participant, or (b) a credit of 0.71 percent multiplied by the number by
which (i) the number of Years of Service of the Participant exceeds (ii)
thirty-five (or thirty in the case of an Officer).  For purposes of
the above computation, a deduction shall result in the Service Factor being
subtracted from the Retirement Percent whereas a credit shall result in the
Service Factor being added to the Retirement Percent. 

TERMINATION
OF EMPLOYMENT.  "Termination of Employment" means the ceasing of the
Participant's employment from the SBC controlled group of companies for any
reason whatsoever, whether voluntarily or involuntarily. 

YEAR.  A
"Year" is a period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months. 

YEAR OF
SERVICE.  "Year of Service" means each complete Year of continuous,
full-time service as an employee beginning on the date when a Participant first
began such continuous employment with any SBC company and on each anniversary of
such date, including service prior to the adoption of this Plan. 

3.           PLAN
("SRIP") BENEFITS. 

3.1           TERMINATION
OF EMPLOYMENT/VESTING.  With respect to (1) a person who becomes a
Participant prior to January 1, 1998, or (2) a person who prior to January 1,
1998 is an officer of a Pacific Telesis Group ("PTG") company and becomes a
Participant after January 1, 1998, upon such a Participant's Termination of
Employment, SBC shall pay to such Participant a monthly SRIP Benefit in
accordance with Section 3.3.  The amount of such monthly SRIP Benefit
is calculated as follows: 

Final
Average Earnings: 

        Revised Retirement
Percentage 

        Target Retirement Benefit 

        Immediate Annuity Value of any SBC/PTG
Qualified Pensions 

Immediate
      Annuity Value of any other SBC/PTG Non-Qualified Pensionsother than
      SRIP 

Target Benefit 

        Age Discount 

        SRIP Benefit immediately payable upon
Termination of Employment 

With respect to a person who is
appointed an Officer and becomes a Participant on or after January 1, 1998, upon
such a Participant's Termination of Employment, SBC shall pay to such
Participant a monthly SRIP Benefit in accordance with Section
3.3.  The amount of such monthly SRIP Benefit is calculated as
follows: 

Final
Average Earnings 

        Revised Retirement
Percentage 

        Target Retirement Benefit 

        Age Discount 

        Discounted Target Benefit 

        Immediate Annuity Value of any SBC/PTG
Qualified Pensions 

Immediate
      Annuity Value of any SBC/PTG Non-Qualified Pensions, other than
      SRIP 

SRIP Benefit immediately payable upon
Termination of Employment 

Where in both of the above cases the
following apply: 

(a)           Revised
Retirement Percentage = Retirement Percent + Service Factor. 

(b)           For
purposes of determining the Service Factor, the Participant's actual Years of
Service as of the date of Termination of Employment, to the day, shall be
used. 

(c)           For
purposes of determining the Final Average Earnings, the Participant's Earnings
history as of the date of Termination of Employment shall be used. 

(d)           Age
Discount means the Participant's SRIP Benefit shall be decreased by five-tenths
of one percent (.5%) for each month that the date of the commencement of payment
precedes the date on which the Participant will attain age 60. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at
the time of Termination of Employment the Participant (1) is, or has been within
the one year period immediately preceding Participant's Termination of
Employment, an Officer with 30 or more years of Service or (2) has 15 or more
Years of Service and is, or has been within the one year period immediately
preceding Participant's Termination of Employment, the Chairman or a Direct
Reporting Officer, such Participant's Age Discount shall be zero. 

Except to true up for an actual short
term award paid following Termination of Employment, there shall be no
recalculation of a Participant's monthly SRIP Benefit following Participant's
Termination of Employment. 

If a Participant who has commenced
payment of his or her SRIP Benefit dies, his or her Beneficiary shall be
entitled to receive the remaining installments of such SRIP Benefit, if any,
which are payable in accordance with Section 3.3.  If a Participant
dies while in active service, Section 4 shall apply. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Plan, upon any Termination of Employment of the Participant for a reason
other than death or Disability, SBC shall have no obligation to the Participant
under this Plan if the Participant has less than 5 Years of Service at the time
of Termination of Employment. 

3.2           DISABILITY.  Upon
a Participant's Disability and application for benefits under the Social
Security Act as now in effect or as hereinafter amended, the Participant will
continue to accrue Years of Service during his or her Disability until the
earliest of his or her: 

(a)           Recovery
from Disability, 

(b)           Retirement,
or 

(c)           Death. 

Upon the occurrence of either (a)
Participant's recovery from Disability prior to his or her Retirement
Eligibility if Participant does not return to employment, or (b) Participant's
Retirement, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a SRIP Benefit in
accordance with Section 3.1. 

For purposes of calculating the
foregoing benefit, the Participant's Final Average Earnings shall be determined
using his or her Earnings history as of the date of his or her
Disability. 

If a Participant who continues to have
a Disability dies prior to his or her Retirement Eligibility, the Participant
will be treated in the same manner as if he or she had died while in employment
(See Section 4.1). 

3.3           BENEFIT
PAYOUT ALTERNATIVES.  The normal form of a Participant's benefits
hereunder shall be a Life with 10-Year Certain Benefit as described in Section
3.3(a).  However, a Participant may elect in his or her Agreement to
convert his or her benefits hereunder, into one of the Alternative Benefits
described in Section 3.3(b) and (c). 

(a)           LIFE
WITH A 10-YEAR CERTAIN BENEFIT.  An annuity payable during the longer
of (i) the life of the Participant or (ii) the 10-year period commencing on the
date of the first payment and ending on the day next preceding the tenth
anniversary of such date (the "Life With 10-Year Certain
Benefit").  If a Participant who is receiving a Life with 10-Year
Certain Benefit dies prior to the expiration of the 10-year period described in
this Section 3.3(a), the Participant's Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive
the remaining Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit installments which would have
been paid to the Participant had the Participant survived for the entire such
10-year period. 

(b)           JOINT
AND 100% SURVIVOR BENEFIT.  A joint and one hundred percent (100%)
survivor annuity payable for life to the Participant and at his or her death to
his or her Beneficiary, in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
amount payable during the Participant's life, for life (the "Joint and 100%
Survivor Benefit"). 

(c)           JOINT
AND 50% SURVIVOR BENEFIT.  A joint and fifty percent (50%) survivor
annuity payable for life to the Participant and at his or her death to his or
her Beneficiary, in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the amount payable
during the Participant's life, for life (the "Joint and 50% Survivor
Benefit"). 

The Benefit Payout Alternatives
described in Section 3.3(b) and 3.3(c) shall be the actuarially determined
equivalent (as determined by the Administrative Committee in its complete and
sole discretion) of the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit that is converted by
such election. 

Any election made pursuant to this
Section 3.3 shall be made in the Participant's Agreement and once made shall be
irrevocable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may elect
in his or her Agreement to defer the time by which he or she is required to
elect one of the foregoing forms of Benefit Payout Alternatives.  Any
such deferred election must be made by the Participant in writing to the
Administrative Committee no later than the last day of the calendar year
preceding the calendar year in which Participant's Retirement takes place or
other benefit payment under this Plan commences. 

If a Participant's Agreement fails to
show an election of a Benefit Payout Alternative, or if the Participant having
chosen to defer his or her benefit election, fails to make a timely election of
benefits, such Participant's form of benefit shall be the Life With 10-Year
Certain Benefit which is described in Section 3.3(a). 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the
event of the death of a designated annuitant during the life of the Participant,
the Participant's election to have a Benefit Payout Alternative described in
Section 3.3(b) or 3.3(c) shall be deemed to be revoked, in which event, subject
to the conditions and limitations specified in the immediately preceding
paragraph, or within the ninety-day period following the death of the annuitant
if such period would end later than the time allowed for an election by the
immediately preceding paragraph, the Participant may elect to have his or her
benefit, or remaining benefit, under the Plan, as the case may be, paid in any
of the forms described in this Section 3.3.  In the event the
Participant's designated annuitant predeceases the Participant and the
Participant fails to make a timely election in accordance with the provisions of
the immediately preceding sentence, the Participant's benefit, or remaining
benefit, as the case may be, shall be paid or reinstated, as the case may be, in
the form of a Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit as described in Section
3.3(a).  Any conversion of benefit from one form to another pursuant
to the provisions of this paragraph shall be subject to actuarial adjustment (as
determined by the Administrative Committee in its complete and sole discretion)
such that the Participant's new benefit is the actuarial equivalent of the
Participant's remaining prior form of benefit.  Payments pursuant to
Participant's new form of benefit shall be effective commencing with the first
monthly payment for the month following the death of the annuitant. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Plan to the contrary, payment in the form of a Benefit Payout Alternative
described in Section 3.3(b) or 3.3(c), with a survivor annuity for the benefit
of the Participant's spouse as Beneficiary, may be waived by the annuitant with
the consent of the Participant in the event of the divorce (or legal separation)
of said annuitant from said Participant. In such event, the Participant's
benefit shall be reinstated to the remainder of the Life with 10-Year Certain
Benefit as described in Section 3.3(a) (i.e., the 10-Year period as described in
Section 3.3(a) shall be the same 10-year period as if such form of benefit was
the form of benefit originally selected and the expiration date of such period
shall not be extended beyond its original expiration date) effective commencing
with the first monthly payment following receipt of the waiver and Participant
consent in a form acceptable to the Administrative Committee.  A
waiver of the type described in this paragraph shall be
irrevocable. 

4.  DEATH
BENEFITS 

4.1           Death.  If
a Participant dies prior to his or her Retirement, a pre-retirement death
benefit will be calculated and paid as though the Participant had retired on the
day prior to the date of death.  Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 3.3, if a Participant's Agreement fails to show an election of a Benefit
Payout Alternative, or if the Participant, having chosen to defer his benefit
election, failed to make a timely election of benefits prior to his death, the
form of the pre-retirement death benefit shall, at the option of the
Participant's Beneficiary, be either the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit form
of the Participant's benefit or a Beneficiary Life Annuity (as such term is
hereinafter described) based on the life expectancy of the
Beneficiary.  If paid as a Beneficiary Life Annuity based on the Life
of the Beneficiary, such benefit shall be the actuarially determined equivalent
(as determined by the Administrative Committee in its complete and sole
discretion) of the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit; provided, however, should
the Beneficiary die prior to the payment to the Beneficiary of the total dollar
amount of the Life with 10-Year Certain Benefit, the remaining dollar balance of
such Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit shall be paid in accordance with the
Participant's beneficiary designation and the Rules at the same monthly rate of
payment as would have been the monthly payment pursuant to the 10-year payment
schedule had the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit been selected. 

4.2           Disability.  In
the event that a Participant terminates employment prior to Retirement by reason
of a Disability that entitles the Participant to continue to accrue Years of
Service until Retirement Eligibility pursuant to Section 3.2 and thereafter dies
after attaining Retirement Eligibility, the Employer shall pay to the
Participant's Beneficiary the Death Benefit specified in Section 4.1 based on
the Participant's Monthly Earnings for the twelve (12) months preceding his or
her Disability.  No death benefit shall be payable if the Participant
dies prior to attaining Retirement Eligibility. 

4.3           Termination
of Employment. If a Participant terminates employment other than by reason of
Disability prior to Retirement Eligibility, no death benefit shall be payable to
the Participant's Beneficiary. 

5.           PAYMENT. 

5.1           Commencement
of Payments.  Commencement of payments under this Plan shall begin not
later than sixty (60) days following the occurrence of an event with entitles a
Participant (or a Beneficiary) to payments under this Plan. 

5.2           Withholding,
Unemployment Taxes.  To the extent required by the law in effect at
the time payments are made, any taxes required to be withheld by the Federal or
any state or local government shall be withheld from payments made
hereunder. 

5.3           Recipients
of Payments; Designation of Beneficiary.  All payments to be made
under the Plan shall be made to the Participant during his or her lifetime,
provided that if the Participant dies prior to the completion of such payments,
then all subsequent payments under the Plan shall be made to the Participant's
Beneficiary or Beneficiaries. 

In the event of the death of a
Participant, distributions/benefits under this Plan shall pass to the
Beneficiary(ies) designated by the Participant in accordance with the
Rules. 

5.4           Additional
Benefit.  The reduction of any benefits payable under the SBC Pension
Plan ("SBCPBP"), which results from participation in the SBC Senior Management
Deferred Compensation Program of 1988, will be restored under this
Plan. 

5.5           No
Other Benefits.  No benefits shall be paid hereunder to the
Participant or his or her Beneficiary except as specifically provided
herein. 

5.6           Small
Benefit.  Notwithstanding any election made by the Participant, the
Administrative Committee in its sole discretion may pay any benefit in the form
of a lump sum payment if the lump sum equivalent amount is or would be less than
$10,000 when payment of such benefit would otherwise commence. 

5.7           Special
Increases. 

5.7.1                               1990
Special Increase.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to
the contrary: 

(a)           Effective
July 1, 1990, the monthly pension benefit amount then being paid hereunder to a
retired Participant whose Plan payments began before January 1990 shall be
increased by 1/30 of 5.0% for each month from and including January 1998 or the
month in which said Participant's pension payments began, whichever is later,
through and including June 1990, inclusive. 

(b)           Effective
July 1, 1990, the present and/or future monthly payment hereunder of a surviving
annuitant of a Participant whose Plan payments began before January 1990 or of a
Participant who died in active service before January 1990, shall be increased
by the same percentage as the related pension was or would have been increased
under the provisions of Paragraph (a) of this Section 5.7.1. 

5.7.2                               Enhanced
Management Pension (EMP) Flow-Through For Participant Receiving Other Than an
SBCPBP "Cash Balance" Benefit.  Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Plan to the contrary. 

(a)           Effective
December 30, 1991, a Participant who as of the date of his or her Retirement
satisfies the requirements for a service pension under the terms of the SBCPBP
as it existed prior to December 30, 1991, shall have his or her SRIP Benefit
determined without subtracting any increase in his or her SBCPBP (or successor
plan) pension amount attributable to the Enhanced Management Pension ("EMP")
provisions thereof, i.e., EMP benefits will "flow-through" to the Participant;
provided, however, such additional benefit amounts corresponding to term of
employment extending beyond age 65 through application of the EMP provisions
shall be subtracted. 

(b)           EMP
flow-through shall not apply in the case of any person who becomes an Eligible
Employee after December 31, 1997. 

5.7.3                               1993
Special Increase and Subsequent Special Increases. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Plan to the contrary: 

(a)           Effective
July 1, 1993, the monthly pension benefit amount then being paid hereunder to
(1) all retired Participants whose Plan payments began before July 1, 1993, (2)
then current and contingent annuitants of such retired Participants who elected
one of the Plan's survivor annuities and (3) then current annuitants of
employees who before  July 1, 1993 died in active service shall be
increased in the same percentages as the SBCPBP ad hoc pension increase
percentages effective July 1, 1993. 

(b)           Any
time after July 1, 1993 that SBCPBP is amended to provide for an ad hoc pension
increase for SBCPBP nonbargained participants, the same percentage increase
shall apply to Plan benefit amounts. 

6.           CONDITIONS
RELATED TO BENEFITS. 

6.1           Administration
of Plan.  The Administrative Committee shall be the sole administrator
of the Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and apply its
provisions in accordance with its terms.  The Administrative Committee
shall further establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as it may
deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  All
decisions of the Administrative Committee shall be final and binding unless the
Board of Directors should determine otherwise. 

6.2           No
Right to SBC Assets.  Neither a Participant nor any other person shall
acquire by reason of the Plan any right in or title to any assets, funds or
property of any SBC company whatsoever including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, any specific funds or assets which SBC, in its sole
discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability hereunder, nor in or to
any policy or policies of insurance on the life of a Participant owned by
SBC.  No trust shall be created in connection with or by the execution
or adoption of this Plan or any Agreement, and any benefits which become payable
hereunder shall be paid from the general assets of SBC.  A Participant
shall have only a contractual right to the amounts, if any, payable hereunder
unsecured by any asset of SBC. 

6.3           Trust
Fund.  SBC shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits
provided under the Plan.  At its discretion, SBC may establish one or
more trusts, for the purpose of providing for the payment of such
benefits.  Such trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets
thereof shall be subject to the claims of SBC's creditors.  To the
extent any benefits provided under the Plan are actually paid from any such
trust, SBC shall have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the
extent not so paid, such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and shall be
paid by SBC. 

6.4           No
Employment Rights.  Nothing herein shall constitute a contract of
continuing employment or in any manner obligate any SBC company to continue the
service of a Participant, or obligate a Participant to continue in the service
of any SBC company and nothing herein shall be construed as fixing or regulating
the compensation paid to a Participant. 

6.5           Modification
or Termination of Plan.  This Plan may be modified or terminated at
any time in accordance with the provisions of SBC's Schedule of
Authorizations.  A modification may affect present and future Eligible
Employees.  SBC also reserves the sole right to terminate at any time
any or all Agreements.  In the event of termination of the Plan or of
a Participant's Agreement, a Participant shall be entitled to benefits
hereunder, if prior to the date of termination of the Plan or of his or her
Agreement, such Participant has attained 5 Years of Service, in which case,
regardless of the termination of the Plan/Participant's Agreement, such
Participant shall be entitled to benefits at such time as provided in and as
otherwise in accordance with the Plan and his or her Agreement, provided,
however, Participant's benefit shall be computed as if Participant had
terminated employment as of the date of termination of the Plan or of his or her
Agreement; provided further, however, Participant's service subsequent to
Plan/Agreement termination shall be recognized for purposes of reducing or
eliminating the Age discount provided for by Section 3.1(d).  No
amendment, including an amendment to this Section 6.5, shall be effective,
without the written consent of a Participant, to alter, to the detriment of such
Participant, the benefits described in this Plan as applicable to such
Participant as of the effective date of such amendment.  For purposes
of this Section 6.5, an alteration to the detriment of a Participant shall mean
a reduction in the amount payable hereunder to a Participant to which such
Participant would be entitled if such Participant terminated employment at such
time, or any change in the form of benefit payable hereunder to a Participant to
which such Participant would be entitled if such Participant terminated
employment at such time.  Any amendment which reduces Participant's
benefit hereunder to adjust for a change in his or her pension benefit resulting
from an amendment to any company-sponsored defined benefit pension plan which
changes the pension benefits payable to all employees, shall not require the
Participant's consent.  Written notice of any amendment shall be given
to each Participant. 

6.6           Offset.  If
at the time payments or installments of payments are to be made hereunder, a
Participant or his Beneficiary or both are indebted to any SBC company, then the
payments remaining to be made to the Participant or his Beneficiary or both may,
at the discretion of the Board of Directors, be reduced by the amount of such
indebtedness; provided, however, that an election by the Board of Directors not
to reduce any such payment of payments shall not constitute a waiver of such SBC
company's claim for such indebtedness. 

6.7           Change
in Status.  In the event of a change in the employment status of a
Participant to a status in which he is no longer an Eligible Employee, the
Participant shall immediately cease to be eligible for any benefits under this
Plan except such benefits as had previously vested.  Only
Participant's Years of Service and Earnings history prior to the change in his
employment status shall be taken into account for purposes of determining
Participant's vested benefits hereunder. 

7.           MISCELLANEOUS. 

7.1           Nonassignability.  Neither
a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell,
assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt of the amounts, if any,
payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are,
expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part
of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or
sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate
maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by
operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's
bankruptcy or insolvency. 

7.2           Non-Competition.  Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan, all benefits provided under the Plan with
respect to a Participant shall be forfeited and canceled in their entirety if
the Participant, without the consent of SBC and while employed by SBC or any
subsidiary thereof or within three (3) years after termination of such
employment, engages in competition with SBC or any subsidiary thereof or with
any business with which SBC or a subsidiary or affiliated company has a
substantial interest (collectively referred to herein as "Employer business")
and fails to cease and desist from engaging in said competitive activity within
120 days following receipt of written notice from SBC to Participant demanding
that Participant cease and desist from engaging in said competitive
activity.  For purposes of this Plan, engaging in competition with any
Employer business shall mean engaging by the Participant in any business or
activity in the same geographical market where the same or substantially similar
business or activity is being carried on as an Employer
business.  Such term shall not include owning a nonsubstantial
publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that competes with an
Employer business.  However, engaging in competition with an Employer
business shall include representing or providing consulting services to, or
being an employee of, any person or entity that is engaged in competition with
any Employer business or that takes a position adverse to any Employer business.
Accordingly, benefits shall not be provided under this Plan if, within the time
period and without the written consent specified, Participant either engages
directly in competitive activity or in any capacity in any location becomes
employed by, associated with, or renders service to any company, or parent or
affiliate thereof, or any subsidiary of any of them, if any of them is engaged
in competition with an Employer business, regardless of the position or duties
the Participant takes and regardless of whether or not the employing company, or
the company that Participant becomes associated with or renders service to, is
itself engaged in direct competition with an Employer business. 

7.3           Notice.  Any
notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrative Committee under
the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by
certified mail, to the principal office of SBC, directed to the attention of the
Senior Vice President-Human Resources.  Any notice required or
permitted to be given to a Participant shall be sufficient if in writing and
hand delivered, or sent by certified mail, to Participant at Participant's last
known mailing address as reflected on the records of his or her employing
company.  Notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or,
if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the
receipt for certification. 

7.4           Validity.  In
the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the
same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this plan. 

7.5           Applicable
Law.  This Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of Texas to the extent not preempted by the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder
("ERISA"). 

7.6           Plan
Provisions in Effect Upon Termination of Employment.  The Plan
provisions in effect upon a Participant's termination of employment shall govern
the provision of benefits to such Participant.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing sentence, the benefits of a Participant whose Retirement occurred
prior to February 1, 1989, shall be subject to the provisions of Section 3.3
hereof. 

SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC. 

      PENSION
BENEFIT MAKE UP PLAN #1 

Effective:  January
1, 1995 

Revisions
Effective: December 1, 1998 

Section
1.                                         Purpose:  The
purpose of the SBC Communications Inc. ("SBC") Pension Benefit Make Up Plan #1
("Plan"), formerly named the SBC Pension Benefit Make Up Plan, is to recognize,
for pension computation purposes, certain compensation being excluded in the
determination of retirement benefits under SBC's qualified SBC Pension Benefit
Plan or other qualified pension plan(s) of any subsidiary of SBC ("Pension
Plan").  Recognition of such compensation by this Plan will make up
benefits to eligible employees that would otherwise be lost because such
compensation is not recognized in the determination of retirement benefits under
the Pension Plan. 

Section
2.                                         Background:  The
Omnibus budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 reduced the amount of annual
compensation recognized under the Pension Plan from $235,840 to $150,000 (as
indexed) effective for plan years beginning January 1, 1994, i.e., for pension
calculations using the January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1993 pay base averaging
period.  As a result, compensation in excess of $150,000 (as indexed)
may not be recognized in the determination of the Pension Plan's retirement
benefits.  Further, compensation paid pursuant to the SBC
Communications Inc. Short Term Incentive Plan ("STIP") is not recognized in the
determination of Pension Plan retirement benefits, but is recognized in the
determination of retirement benefits provided under the SBC Communications Inc.
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP").  Since 1994, newly
promoted senior managers have not been made eligible for SRIP benefits (SRIP
benefits have been limited to only officer level promotions).  As a
result, STIP compensation for newly promoted senior managers receiving such
compensation is not recognized in the determination of their retirement
benefits.  This is inconsistent with the treatment afforded all other
managers who have either their STIP award or TEAM award, as applicable,
recognized for purposes of determining their retirement
benefits.  Also, limiting the compensation of these newly promoted
senior managers and of other eligible managers that may be recognized for
purposes of determining retirement benefits to $150,000 (as indexed) is
inconsistent with other senior managers who are eligible for SRIP benefits and
other managers, respectively, whose recognizable compensation is not limited in
this manner. 

Finally, effective December 1, 1998,
the Plan is revised to modify its rules for making payouts. 

Section
3.                                         Eligibility:  Participation
in this Plan is limited to General Management level (i.e., former third/fourth
level) or above (or equivalent) Pension Plan participants in any subsidiary of
SBC, ("Subsidiary") who meet one or both of the following: (1) who are not
eligible for SRIP benefits and who receive a STIP award; (2) who are not
eligible for SRIP benefits and whose annual compensation exceeds the
compensation recognizable by the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 401 (a) (17)
of the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC"). Eligibility for this Plan shall be
interpreted in the broadest possible sense in order that this Plan can recognize
all base salary and annual incentive type awards, whenever earned, for the
purpose of making up any benefit that would otherwise be lost due to the fact
that the Pension Plan is unable to recognize any such compensation in
determining retirement benefits. 

Section
4.                                         Benefits/Payout
Alternatives:  The benefits payable pursuant to the Plan, hereinafter
the "Make Up Benefit", is equal to the amount that would be payable under the
Pension Plan determined without regard to the IRS Section 401(a)(17) limit and
without regard to deferrals under any SBC non-qualified plan, and including STIP
compensation as compensation recognized in the determination of benefits, less
the amount actually payable as a qualified plan benefit under the Pension Plan
(including Section 415 excess amounts), and less the amount payable as a Pension
Plan make up amount under any other non-qualified plan sponsored by SBC, other
than the SBC Mid Career Hire Plan (see Attachment for example
calculation).  If the benefit payable as a Pension Plan make up amount
under any other non-qualified plan is not payable in the same form and manner as
are pension payments from the Pension Plan, the reduction for such benefit shall
be based on the benefit that would have been payable under such other
non-qualified plan had it been payable in the same form and
manner.  If such form and manner is not available under such plan,
such reduction will be actuarially determined, based on factors in effect under
the Pension Plan for converting one optional form of benefit to
another.  The payment of the Make Up Benefit pursuant to this Plan
shall be made by the Subsidiary which last employed the eligible employee
entitled to benefits under this Plan. 

This Plan shall be applied with respect
to employees in active service on or after January 1, 1995.  The Plan
will provide Make Up Benefits to make up benefits for such persons that would
otherwise have been lost on or after January 1, 1994 resulting because of the
retroactive application of the IRC Section 401 (a) (17) limit. 

Notwithstanding the preceding
provisions of this Section, if all or a portion of the Make Up Benefit is paid
or becomes payable pursuant to the Pension Plan, SRIP, or any other
non-qualified plan, then such amount shall not be payable pursuant to this
Plan. 

Make Up Benefits under the Plan shall
be excluded in determining benefits under any pension, retirement, savings,
disability, death or other benefit plans of SBC or any Subsidiary, except where
required by law. 

All applicable federal, state and local
taxes required by law to be withheld shall be deducted from Make Up Benefits
paid under this Plan. 

If any overpayment is made by the Plan
for any reason, the Plan shall have the right to recover such
overpayment.  The participant shall cooperate fully with the Plan to
recover any overpayment and provide any necessary information and required
documents.  Any overpayments may be deducted from future benefits
payable to or on behalf of the participant from this or any other non-qualified
SBC plan. 

Payments of an individual's Make Up
Benefit shall be made coincident with and in the same form and manner as are
pension payments from the Pension Plan, i.e., such payments shall be made in the
same lump sum, single life or joint and survivor annuity form of payment as are
payments from the Pension Plan (including payments to the survivor annuitant in
the event of the participant's death) and shall be subject to any other
reductions applicable to the individual's Pension Plan payments. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a
participant elects a lump sum payment from the Pension Plan and the present
value of the total of all non-qualified Pension Plan make up payments exceeds
$50,000, the Make Up Benefit will be paid in monthly installments over 10
years.  The monthly installment payments shall be calculated in the
same way that a financial institution would calculate the monthly payments for a
10-year fixed interest loan.  The interest rate used in the
calculations shall be equal to the Pension Plan's Interest Rate in effect on the
participant's Benefit Commencement Date for payments under the Pension
Plan. 

A participant may designate a
beneficiary(ies) to receive any remaining payments for which the participant has
the right to designate a beneficiary if the participant dies before all payments
are made. 

Section
5.                                         Administration:  The
Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources ("SEVP-HR") or the SEVP-HR's
successor shall be the sole administrator of the Plan and will administer the
Plan, interpret, construe and apply its provisions in accordance with its
terms.  The SEVP-HR shall further establish, adopt or revise such
rules and regulations as the SEVP-HR may deem necessary or advisable for the
administration of the Plan. All decisions of the SEVP-HR shall be final and
binding. 

Section
6.                                         Small
Distribution:  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the
Subsidiary paying a Make Up Benefit to an individual hereunder may distribute
such benefit in the form of a lump sum distribution if the present value of such
distribution is less than $10,000 when such distribution would otherwise
commence. 

Section
7.                                         Loss
Of Eligibility:  In the event that any participant ceases to be an
eligible employee by reason of a change to an employment status which is not
eligible to participate in this Plan, such participant shall nevertheless
continue to be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan however, no
additional benefits shall be accrued under this Plan.  Notwithstanding
the preceding sentence of this Section, if a participant ceases to be eligible
for this Plan and becomes eligible to receive the equivalent of his/her Make Up
Benefit or a portion thereof pursuant to another non-qualified plan sponsored by
SBC, to the extent such Make Up Benefit is paid pursuant to such other plan, no
duplication of such payment shall be made pursuant to this Plan. 

Section
8.                                         Ineligible
Participant:  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the
contrary, if any participant in this Plan is determined not to be "in a select
group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), as amended, or
regulations thereunder, such participant will not be eligible to continue to
participate in this Plan and shall receive an immediate lump sum distribution of
the Make Up Benefits payable pursuant to this Plan.  Such Make Up
Benefits shall be determined as though the participant had terminated employment
on the date such participant is deemed to be ineligible. Upon such payment, no
other distribution shall thereafter be payable under this Plan. 

Section
9.                                         Unsecured
General Creditor:  Participants and their beneficiaries, heirs,
successors and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights, interest, or
claims in any property or assets of SBC or any Subsidiary.  No assets
shall be held under any trust for the benefit of employees, their beneficiaries,
heirs, successors, or assigns, or held in any way as collateral security for the
fulfilling of the obligations under this Plan.  Any and all of SBC's
or any Subsidiary's assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged,
unrestricted assets of SBC or any such Subsidiary.  SBC's or any
Subsidiary's obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and
unsecured promise of SBC or any such Subsidiary to distribute cash under the
Plan in the future. 

Section
10.                                         Nonassignability:  Neither
a participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell,
assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt, any part or all of the
amounts payable hereunder, which are and all rights to which are, expressly
declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable.  No such amounts
shall be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts,
judgments, alimony or separation maintenance owed by a participant or any other
person, nor, be transferable by operation of law in the event of a participant's
or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency.  Any such attempted
assignments to transfer shall be void. 

Section
11.                                         Employment
Not Guaranteed:  Nothing contained in this Plan nor any action taken
hereunder shall be constructed as a contract of employment or as giving any
employee any right to be retained in the employ of SBC or any
Subsidiary. 

Section
12.                                         Applicable
Law:  This Plan shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance
with ERISA.  Further, the Plan shall be construed, administered, and
enforced according to the applicable laws of the State of Texas to the extent
such laws are not preempted by ERISA.  Nothing herein shall be
construed as waiving any preemption of the application of state law to the Plan
to the extent such preemption is provided under ERISA. 

Section
13.                                         Amendment:  The
Plan may at any time be amended or terminated in accordance with the provisions
of SBC's Schedule of Authorizations , but such changes or termination shall not
adversely effect the rights of any eligible employee, without his or her written
consent, to any Make Up Benefit payable under the Plan to which such employee
may have previously become entitled prior to the effective date of such change
or termination. 

Section
14.                                         Beneficiary(ies):  The
SBC Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may hereafter be amended from
time to time ("Rules"), which Rules are incorporated herein by this reference,
shall apply hereunder to the extent that a participant shall have the right to
designate a beneficiary to receive any benefits hereunder.  For
purposes of this Plan, "beneficiary" shall thus mean any beneficiary or
beneficiaries designated by the participant pursuant to the Rules, or otherwise
determined pursuant to such Rules if the participant fails to designate a
beneficiary. 

Section
15.                                         Special
Increases:  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the
contrary, at any time that a Pension Plan is amended to provide for an ad hoc
increase in the monthly pension amount then payable under that Pension Plan to a
participant or beneficiary hereunder, then the same percentage increase shall
apply to this Plan's benefit amount then being paid in the form of a monthly
single life annuity, monthly joint and survivor annuity, or monthly survivor
annuity. 

PENSION BENEFIT MAKE UP PLAN
#1  

EXAMPLE BENEFIT
CALCULATION  

Employee:                                            John
Doe 

      Retirement
Date:                                 July
1, 1999 

      Years
Service:                                      30 

      Current
Base
Salary:                           $181,000 

      Short
Term  (STIP)
Award:                $ 
46,000 

$
8,263  QUALIFIED PENSION-Maximum Potential monthly benefit determined
AS IF 

        1) no non-qualified plan
deferrals 

        2) all STIP awards
included 

        3) no $150,000 (as indexed)
compensation limit 

less  $
4,507  QUALIFIED PENSION-Actual monthly benefit determined
by 

        1) excluding non-qualified plan
deferrals 

        2) excluding STIP awards 

              3)
excluding compensation in excess of $150,000 (as indexed) compensation
limit 

less  $
1,698  NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRAL PLAN(S)- Actual monthly amount received
as a Pension Plan make up benefit 

equals   $
2,058  PENSION BENEFIT MAKE UP PLAN - Actual monthly Make Up
Benefit 

SBC
Communications Inc. 

SUPPLEMENTAL
LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

Effective:  January
1, 1986 

Revisions
Effective:  September 29, 2000 

1.      Purpose.  The
purpose of the Supplemental Life Insurance Plan ("Plan") is to allow for
provision of additional survivor benefits for Eligible Employees. 

2.      Definitions.  For
purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

ANNUAL
BASE SALARY OR ANNUAL SALARY OR SALARY.  "Annual Base Salary" or
"Annual Salary" or "Salary" shall mean an Eligible Employee's annual base salary
rate determined by SBC, excluding (1) all differentials regarded as temporary or
extra payments and (2) all payments and incentive awards and distributions made
either as a long term award or as a short term award; and such Salary shall be
as before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to any deferred
compensation plan or agreement provided by SBC, including but not limited to
compensation deferred in accordance with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Annual Salary or Salary shall mean an annualized amount determined from an
Eligible Employee's Annual Base Salary rate. 

BENEFICIARY.  "BENEFICIARY"
shall mean any beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Eligible Employee
pursuant to the SBC Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may hereafter
be amended from time-to-time ("Rules"). 

CHAIRMAN.  "Chairman"
shall mean the Chairman of the Board of SBC Communications Inc. 

COMMITTEE.  "Committee"
shall mean the Human Resources Committee of the Board of SBC Communications
Inc. 

ELIGIBLE
EMPLOYEE.  "Eligible Employee" shall mean an Officer or a non-Officer
employee of any SBC company who is designated by the Chairman as eligible to
participate in the Plan. 

INSURANCE
CONTRACT.  "Insurance Contract" shall mean a contract(s) of life
insurance insuring the life of the Eligible Employee entered into by
SBC. 

OFFICER.  "Officer"
shall mean an individual who is designated by the Chairman as eligible to
participate in the Plan who is an elected officer of SBC or of any SBC
subsidiary (direct or indirect). 

RETIREMENT.  "Retirement"
shall mean the termination of an Eligible Employee's employment with SBC or any
of its subsidiaries, for reasons other than death, on or after the earlier of
the following dates: (1) the date the Eligible Employee is Retirement Eligible
as term is defined in the SBC Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP"); or
(2) the date the Eligible Employee has attained one of the following
combinations of age and service at termination of employment on or after April
1, 1997, except as otherwise indicated below: 

Net Credited
Service                                                        Age  

        10 years or
more                                                      65
or older 

        20 years or
more                                                      55
or older 

        25 years or
more                                                      50
or older 

        30 years or
more                                                      Any
age 

With respect to an Eligible Employee
who is granted an EMP Service Pension under and pursuant to the provisions of
the SBC Pension Benefit Plan   -   Nonbargained Program ("SBCPBP") upon
termination of Employment, the term  Retirement" shall include such
Eligible Employee's termination of employment. 

TERMINATION
UNDER EPR.  In determining whether an Eligible Employee's termination
of employment under the Enhanced Pension and Retirement Program ("EPR") is a
Retirement for purposes of this Plan, five years shall be added to each of age
and net credited service ("NCS").  If with such additional age and
years of service, (1) an Eligible Employee upon such termination of employment
under EPR is Retirement Eligible according to the SBC Supplemental Retirement
Income Plan ("SRIP") or (2) the Eligible Employee upon such termination of
employment under EPR has attained one of the following combinations of age and
service, 

Actual NCS + 5
Years                                               Actual Age + 5
Years  

        10 years or
more                                                      65
or older 

        20 years or
more                                                      55
or older 

        25 years or
more                                                      50
or older 

        30 years or
more                                                      Any
age 

then such
termination of employment shall be a Retirement for all purposes under this Plan
and the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to the treatment under this Plan
afforded in the case of a termination of employment which is a
Retirement. 

SBC.  "SBC"
shall mean SBC Communications Inc. 

3.           Eligibility.  Each
Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan 

4.           Pre-Retirement
Benefits and Post-Retirement Benefits. 

Basic
Death Benefit 

While this plan is in effect, the
Beneficiary who is designated by the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to
receive as a Basic Death Benefit from the proceeds of the Insurance Contract an
amount equal to the result of multiplying the Eligible Employee's Annual Salary
rounded to the next higher $1,000 by the following amounts: 

Chief Executive
Officer                                                                                               3 

        Direct Reporting Officer as such
term                                                                      2 

        is defined in SBC's Schedule of
Authorizations 

        Other Eligible
Employees                                                                                            1 

This amount shall be reduced (but not
below zero) by any amount payable under any group term life insurance covering
the Eligible Employee which is maintained by SBC, which amount of group term
life insurance will be limited to a maximum of $50,000. 

The amount of Basic Death Benefit
payable hereunder will automatically increase if pay increases. 

At Retirement, the pre-retirement
benefit converts to a post-retirement benefit. This benefit is equal to one
times Salary rounded to the next higher $1,000 (at the time of retirement) and
shall be reduced (but not below zero) by any amount payable under any group term
life insurance covering the Eligible Employee which is maintained by SBC, which
amount of group term life insurance will be limited to a maximum of $50,000;
provided, however, for an executive who first becomes a Plan participant on or
after January 1, 1998, this post-retirement death benefit shall be reduced by
10% of its original post-retirement amount each year for five years beginning at
the later of the date the Eligible Employee attains age 65 or
Retirement. 

Optional
Supplementary Benefit 

Subject to the limitations in the
remaining paragraphs in this section describing optional supplementary benefits,
each Eligible Employee may also purchase optional supplementary pre-retirement
life insurance coverage from SBC in an amount equal to one times the Eligible
Employee's Annual Salary rounded to the next higher $1,000, and an additional
amount of such insurance in an amount equal to another one times such amount
(for a total of two times the Annual Salary rounded to the next higher $1,000),
which insurance shall be payable from the proceeds of the Insurance Contract.
Each such amount of insurance ("one times salary") continued until such employee
reaches age 65, by continuing to contribute for it, shall entitle the
beneficiary under the Insurance Contract to receive an amount from the proceeds
of such Insurance Contract equal to one times the Eligible Employee's final
Annual Salary rounded to the next higher $1,000, when such Eligible Employee
dies after Retirement. 

To elect this optional supplementary
coverage, the Eligible Employee must complete an enrollment form on which he or
she specifies the amount of coverage he or she wishes to purchase and authorizes
his or her employing company to deduct his or her contributions for coverage
from his or her salary. 

An Eligible Employee may not elect this
coverage while receiving disability benefits under any Company disability
benefit plan. 

An Eligible Employee must make his or
her election to purchase optional supplementary coverage within three calendar
months of being declared eligible to participate in the Plan; except any
Eligible Employee who was declared an Eligible Employee before October 1, 1997,
shall have until December 31, 1997 to enroll for such optional supplementary
coverage or to increase such coverage. 

The optional supplementary life
insurance is effective upon SBC's binding of life insurance coverage for the
Eligible Employee pursuant to an Insurance Contract. 

Effective January 1, 1998, once an
Eligible Employee enrolls for optional supplementary coverage, he or she can
later decrease or terminate such coverage but never increase or reinstate such
coverage. 

Regardless of the amount of coverage
elected, the amount in force will automatically increase if Salary
increases.  The cost for this coverage will increase
accordingly. 

This optional supplementary life
insurance is paid for on a contributory basis by those Eligible Employees who
enroll in the coverage.  The cost of coverage, and therefore, how much
an Eligible Employee contributes, depends on age and the amount of coverage and
shall be as determined by SBC.  There will be no periodic waiver of
premium payments. 

In the event of death, the Eligible
Employee's optional supplementary life insurance benefit will be paid to the
Eligible Employee's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries in a lump sum, unless the
Salary Continuation Death Benefit form of payment was elected on the Eligible
Employee's enrollment form.  The option to elect other than a lump sum
payment is limited to an Eligible Employee who became an Eligible Employee on or
before January 1, 1998.  If the Eligible Employee has no surviving
beneficiaries, the benefit will be paid in a lump sum in accordance with the
Rules. 

The optional supplementary life
insurance coverage hereunder will automatically continue while an Eligible
Employee is receiving disability benefits under any SBC disability benefit plan,
provided the Eligible Employee continues his or her contributions.  If
an Eligible Employee terminates employment with SBC or any of its subsidiaries
for any reason other than Retirement, this coverage will stop at the end of the
month of termination; provided, however, Eligible Employees who are 65 at the
time of their termination will continue to have non-contributory unreduced
coverage after age 65. 

Alternate
Death Benefit 

Alternate death benefit coverage shall
only be available to an Eligible Employee who became an Eligible Employee before
January 1, 1998.  Such Eligible Employees shall be entitled to elect
to receive alternate death benefit life insurance coverage; provided such
election is made before January 1, 1998. 

Under such coverage, an Eligible
Employee's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries will be entitled to receive from the
proceeds of the Insurance Contract a payment equal to the Eligible Employee's
final Annual Salary upon his or her death.  This benefit will not be
rounded to the next higher $1,000.  The amount of insurance in force
will automatically increase if salary increases.  Coverage applies to
death from any cause, except with respect to an on-the-job accident for which an
Eligible Employee is protected while an active employee by any Accident Death
Benefit feature of the SBCPBP. 

By enrolling in this coverage, an
Eligible Employee automatically waives his or her eligibility for any Sickness
Death Benefit and Pensioner Death Benefits otherwise payable under the
SBCPBP. 

The coverage provided by the alternate
death benefit life insurance coverage will continue after
Retirement. 

To elect this coverage, an Eligible
Employee must complete an irrevocable enrollment and waiver form. 

SBC pays the full cost of the alternate
death benefit life insurance coverage. 

The insurance benefit provided under
this alternate death benefit life insurance will be paid in a lump sum, unless
otherwise elected on the Eligible Employee's enrollment form. 

Alternate death benefit coverage ceases
upon an Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment other than a
Retirement.  This alternate death benefit life insurance may not be
converted to an individual policy. 

Salary
Continuation Death Benefit. 

The salary continuation death benefit
shall only be available under the conditions specified hereunder, to an Eligible
Employee who became an Eligible Employee before January 1, 1998. 

By a written election filed with SBC
before January 1, 1998, an Eligible Employee may terminate his or her rights to
a Basic Death Benefit and/or to Optional Supplementary Coverage (if any) and/or
to an Alternate Death Benefit (if any). 

If such an election is filed, and the
Eligible Employee dies on or after the first day of the calendar year following
the year in which such election is filed and prior to the termination of
coverage pursuant to Section 7, the Eligible Employee's Beneficiary or
Beneficiaries theretofore named shall be paid by SBC an amount per annum for ten
(10) years which amounts, in the aggregate, have a net present value, using an
eleven percent (11%) discount rate, equal to one hundred eight-five percent
(185%) of the (i) Basic Death Benefit amount and/or (ii) the amount elected as
Optional Supplementary coverage(if any) and/or (iii) the amount elected as an
Alternate Death Benefit (if any) which would be payable to his or her
Beneficiary or Beneficiaries as of the date of the Eligible Employee's death,
and no other benefit shall be payable hereunder as either a Basic Death Benefit,
Optional Supplementary Coverage or Alternate Death Benefit.  Such
payment(s) shall commence no later than sixty (60) days following the date of
the Eligible Employee's death. 

On or after January 1, 1998, an
Eligible Employee who has elected death benefits in the form of salary
continuation pursuant to this Section may cancel such election and have his or
her Beneficiaries receive death benefits as insurance in a lump-sum but, an
Eligible Employee who cancels his or her salary continuation election may not
thereafter re-elect such option. 

Survivor
Annuity Equivalent 

Additionally, each Eligible Employee
who is not eligible for the Immediate Automatic Pre-retirement Survivor Annuity
of the SBCPBP (or equivalent thereof) shall be eligible hereunder for a Survivor
Annuity Equivalent benefit of one times salary payable to the surviving spouse
of such Eligible Employee.  Such benefit shall be paid as follows: an
amount per annum for ten (10) years shall be paid to the Eligible Employee's
surviving spouse which amounts, in the aggregate, shall have a net present
value, using an eleven percent (11%) discount rate, equal to one hundred
eighty-five percent (185%) of one times the Eligible Employee's salary at the
time of his or her death; provided, however, no such Survivor Annuity Equivalent
payments will be made on or after the date of death of the surviving spouse.
Such payments shall commence no later than sixty (60) days following the date of
the Eligible Employee's death. 

For the purposes of the Survivor
Annuity Equivalent, the Eligible Employee's surviving spouse means a spouse
legally married to the Eligible Employee at the time of the Eligible Employee's
death. 

Eligibility for the Survivor Annuity
Equivalent shall automatically cease on the date of termination of the Eligible
Employee's employment.  If the Eligible Employee becomes totally
disabled prior to Retirement, the Eligible Employee shall continue to be
eligible for the Survivor Annuity Equivalent until the expiration of disability
benefits.  If the Eligible Employee is granted a leave of absence,
other than for military service of more than four weeks, the Eligible Employee
shall continue to be eligible for the Survivor Annuity Equivalent during such
leave of absence. 

The Eligible Employee shall cease to be
eligible for the Survivor Annuity Equivalent at the conclusion of the day
immediately preceding the date the Eligible Employee becomes eligible for the
Immediate Automatic Pre-retirement Survivor Annuity of the SBCPBP. 

5.           Incidents
of Ownership.  SBC will be the owner and hold all the incidents of
ownership in the Insurance Contract, including the right to dividends, if
paid.  The Eligible Employee may specify in writing to SBC, the
Beneficiary or Beneficiaries and the mode of payment for any death proceeds not
in excess of the amounts payable under this Plan.  Upon receipt of a
written request from the Eligible Employee, SBC will immediately take such
action as shall be necessary to implement such Beneficiary
appointment.  Any balance of proceeds from the Insurance Contract not
paid as either a Basic Death Benefit or otherwise pursuant to the Plan shall be
paid to SBC. 

6.           Premiums.  All
premiums due on the Insurance Contract shall be paid by SBC.  However,
the Eligible Employee agrees to reimburse SBC by January 31 following the date
of each premium payment in an amount such that, for Federal Income Tax purposes
the reimbursement for each year is equal to the amount which would be required
to be included in the Eligible Employee's income for Federal Income Tax purposes
by reasons of the "economic benefit" of the Insurance Contract provided by SBC;
provided, however, that SBC, in its sole discretion, may decline to accept any
such reimbursement and require the inclusion of such "economic benefit" in the
Eligible Employee's income.  In its discretion SBC may deduct the
Eligible Employee's portion of the premiums from the Eligible Employee's
pay. 

7.           Termination
of Coverage.  An Eligible Employee's coverage under this Plan shall
terminate immediately when the Eligible Employee realizes an "Event of
Termination" which shall mean any of the following: 

(a)           Termination
of an Eligible Employee's employment with his or her employing company for any
reason other than (i) death, (ii) Disability as such term is defined in the
SRIP, or (iii) Retirement. 

(b)           In
the case of an Eligible Employee who terminates employment by reason of a
disability but who does not realize an Event of Termination because of Section
7a(ii) above, a termination of the Eligible Employee's total Disability that is
not accompanied by either a return to employment with his or her employing
company or the Eligible Employee's death or Retirement. 

(c)           Except
in the case of an Eligible Employee who has theretofore terminated employment
for a reason described in Section 7a(ii) or (iii) above, SBC elects to terminate
the Eligible Employee's coverage under the Plan by a written notice to that
effect given to the Eligible Employee.  SBC shall have no right to
amend the Plan or terminate the Eligible Employee's coverage under the Plan with
respect to an Eligible Employee who has theretofore terminated employment for a
reason described in Section 7a(ii) or (iii) above without the written consent of
the Eligible Employee. 

8.           Non-Competition.  Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan, no coverage shall be provided under this Plan
with respect to any Eligible Employee who shall, without the written consent of
SBC, and while employed by SBC or any subsidiary thereof, or within three (3)
years after termination of employment from SBC or any subsidiary thereof, engage
in competition with SBC or any subsidiary thereof or with any business with
which a subsidiary of SBC or an affiliated company has a substantial interest
(collectively referred to herein as "Employer business").  For
purposes of this Plan, engaging in competition with any Employer business shall
mean engaging by Eligible Employee in any business or activity in the same
geographical market where the same or substantially similar business or activity
is being carried on as an Employer business.  Such term shall not
include owning a nonsubstantial publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a
business that competes with an Employer business.  However, engaging
in competition with an Employer business shall include representing or providing
consulting services to, or being an employee of, any person or entity that is
engaged in competition with any Employer business or that takes a position
adverse to any Employer business.  Accordingly, coverage shall not be
provided under this Plan if, within the time period and without the written
consent specified, Eligible Employee either engages directly in competitive
activity or in any capacity in any location becomes employed by, associated
with, or renders service to any company, or parent or affiliate thereof, or any
subsidiary of any of them, if any of them is engaged in competition with an
Employer business, regardless of the position or duties the Eligible Employee
takes and regardless of whether or not the employing company, or the company
that Eligible Employee becomes associated with or renders service to, is itself
engaged in direct competition with an Employer business. 

9.           Restriction
on Assignment.  The Eligible Employee may assign all or any part of
his or her right, title, claim, interest, benefits and all other incidents of
ownership which he or she may have in the Insurance Contract to any other
individual or trustee, provided that any such assignment shall be subject to the
terms of this Plan; except neither the Eligible Employee nor any other person
shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate,
mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of
actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable as a Salary Continuation Death
Benefit hereunder, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to
be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable
as a Salary Continuation Death Benefit hereunder shall, prior to actual payment,
be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments,
alimony or separate maintenance owed by the Eligible Employee or any other
person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of the Eligible
Employee's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency.  Except as
provided in this Section 8, no assignment or alienation of any benefits under
the Plan will be permitted or recognized. 

10.           Unsecured
General Creditor.  Except to the extent of rights with respect to the
Insurance Contract in the absence of an election to receive benefits in Salary
Continuation Death Benefit form, the Eligible Employee and his or her
Beneficiaries, heirs, successors and assigns shall have no legal or equitable
rights, interest or claims in any property or assets of SBC, nor shall they be
beneficiaries, or have any rights, claims or interests in, any life insurance
policies, annuity contracts or the proceeds there from owned or which may be
acquired by SBC ("Policies"); such Policies or other assets of SBC shall not be
held under any trust for the benefit of the Eligible Employee, his or her
designated beneficiaries, heirs, successors or assigns, or held in any way as
collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations of SBC under this
Agreement; any and all of SBC's assets and Policies shall be, and remain, the
general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of SBC; SBC shall have no obligation to
acquire any Policies or any other assets; and SBC's obligations under this
Agreement shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of SBC to
pay money in the future. 

11.           Employment
Not Guaranteed.  Nothing contained in this Plan nor any action taken
hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or as giving the
Eligible Employee any right to be retained in the employ of any SBC
company. 

12.           Protective
Provisions.  The Eligible Employee will cooperate with SBC by
furnishing any and all information requested by SBC, in order to facilitate the
payment of benefits hereunder, taking such physical examinations as SBC may deem
necessary and taking such other relevant action as may be requested by SBC, in
order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder.  If the
Eligible Employee refuses so to cooperate, the Eligible Employee's participation
in the Plan shall terminate and SBC shall have no further obligation to the
Eligible Employee or his or her designated Beneficiary hereunder.  If
the Eligible Employee commits suicide during the two-year period beginning on
the date of eligibility under the Plan, or if the Eligible Employee makes any
material misstatement of information or nondisclosure of medical history, then
no benefits will be payable by reason of this Plan to the Eligible Employee or
his or her designated Beneficiary, or in SBC's sole discretion, benefits may be
payable in a reduced amount. 

13.           Change
in Status.  In the event of a change in the employment status of an
Eligible Employee to a status in which he or she is no longer an Eligible
Employee under the Plan, such Eligible Employee shall immediately cease to be
eligible for any benefits under this Plan; provided, however, such survivor
benefits as would be available to such employee by reason of his or her new
status but which do not automatically become effective upon attainment of such
new status shall continue to be provided under this Plan until such benefits
become effective or until such employee has had reasonable opportunity to
effectuate such benefits but has failed to take any requisite action necessary
for such benefits to become effective. 

14.           Named
Fiduciary.  If this Plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), SBC is the "named fiduciary" of the
Plan. 

15.           Applicable
Law.  This Plan and the rights and obligations hereunder shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas to
the extent such law is not preempted by ERISA. 

16.           Administration
of the Plan.  The Committee shall be the sole administrator of the
Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and apply its provisions
in accordance with its terms.  The Committee shall further establish,
adopt or revise such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or advisable
for the administration of the Plan.  All decisions of the Committee
shall be binding. 

17.           Relation
to Prior Plans.  This Plan supersedes and replaces prior Senior
Management Survivor Benefit, Senior Management Supplementary Life Insurance, and
Senior Management Alternate Death Benefit Life Insurance Plans as in effect
prior to January 1, 1986, except such plans shall continue to apply to Eligible
Employees who retired before January 1, 1986; provided, however, that with
respect to those Eligible Employees who retired during calendar year 1986 by
reason of the fact of attaining age 65, the Post-Retirement Benefit provided
pursuant to the Senior Management Survivor Benefit Plan as in effect prior to
January 1, 1986, shall continue to apply and the post-retirement benefit
provided under the Basic Death Benefit portion hereof shall not
apply. 

18.           Amendments
and Termination.  This Plan may be modified or terminated at any time
in accordance with the provisions of SBC's Schedule of Authorizations. A
modification or Plan termination may affect present and future Eligible
Employees; provided, however, that no modification shall be made to this Plan
with respect to an Eligible Employee who terminates employment for reason of
disability or Retirement), nor shall a termination of the Plan operate so as to
be applicable to such an individual, without the written consent of the Eligible
Employee. 

SBC
Communications Inc. 

SALARY
AND INCENTIVE AWARD DEFERRAL PLAN 

Effective:  January
1, 1984 

As
amended through September 29, 2000 

ARTICLE 1
- - STATEMENT OF PURPOSE 

The purpose of the Salary and Incentive
Award Deferral Plan ("Plan") is to provide a select group of management
employees consisting of Eligible Employees of SBC Communications Inc. ("SBC" or
the "Company") and its Subsidiaries with a means for deferring the receipt of
income. 

ARTICLE 2
- - DEFINITIONS 

For the purposes of this Plan, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the
context indicates otherwise: 

BASE
COMPENSATION.  The following types of cash-based compensation, in each
case as determined by SBC, paid by an Employer (but not including payments made
by a non-Employer, such as state disability payments), before reduction due to
any contribution pursuant to this Plan or reduction pursuant to any deferral
plan of an Employer, including but not limited to a plan that includes a
qualified cash or deferral arrangement under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code, as amended ("Code"): 

(a)           annual
base salary. 

Payments by an Employer under a
Disability plan made in lieu of any compensation described in (a) above, shall
be deemed to be a part of the compensation it replaces for purposes of this
definition.  Base Compensation does not include the TEAM Award (the
annual award determined to be the "Team Award" by SBC together with the
individual award determined by SBC to be the Individual Discretionary Award made
in connection therewith) or comparable awards, if any, determined by SBC to be
used in lieu of these awards, commissions or zone allowances or any other
geographical differential and shall not include payments made in lieu of unused
vacation or other paid days off, and such payments shall not be contributed to
this Plan. 

BUSINESS
DAY.  Any day during regular business hours that SBC is open for
business. 

CHAIRMAN.  The
Chairman of the Board of Directors of SBC Communications Inc. 

COMMITTEE.  The
Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of SBC Communications
Inc. 

DECLARED
RATE.  The interest rate for each calendar year as determined by the
Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources, with the concurrence of the
Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and
announced on or before January 1 of the applicable calendar
year.  However, in no event will the Declared Rate for any calendar be
less than the Moody's Corporate Bond Yield Average-Monthly Average Corporates as
published by Moody's Investor's Service, Inc. (or any successor thereto) for the
month of September before the calendar year in question, or, if such yield is no
longer published, a substantially similar average selected by the Senior
Executive Vice President-Human Resources or his or her successor. 

DISABILITY.  Absence
of an Employee from work with an Employer under the relevant Employer's
disability plan, not only while such Employee is deemed by the Employer to be an
Employee of such Employer. 

ELIGIBLE
EMPLOYEE.  An Employee who: 

(a)           is
a full time, salaried Employee of SBC or an Employer and who is on active duty,
Disability or Leave of Absence; 

(b)           is,
as determined by SBC, a member of Employer's "select group of management or
highly compensated employees" within the meaning of the Employment Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder ("ERISA");
and 

(c)           is
(i) an Officer or (ii) a non-Officer Employee who has been approved by the
chairman to be eligible to participate in this Plan. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, SBC may,
from time to time, exclude any Employee or group of Employees from being deemed
an "Eligible Employee" under this Plan. 

In the event a court or other
governmental authority determines that an individual was improperly excluded
from the class of persons who would be considered Eligible Employees during a
particular time for any reason, that individual shall not be an Eligible
Employee for purposes of the Plan for the period of time prior to such
determination. 

EMPLOYEE.  Any
person employed by an Employer, excluding persons hired for a fixed maximum term
and excluding persons who are neither citizens nor permanent residents of the
United States, all as determined by SBC.  For purposes of this Plan, a
person on Leave of Absence who otherwise would be an Employee shall be deemed to
be an Employee. 

EMPLOYER.  SBC
Communications Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries. 

EXECUTIVE
OFFICER.  A person identified as an "executive officer" of SBC in the
then most recent SBC Form 10-K containing such information that was filed with
the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or who subsequent to such
filing was notified by SBC's General Counsel to be an executive officer of
SBC. 

INCENTIVE
AWARD.  A cash award paid by an Employer (and not by a non-Employer,
such as state disability payments) as either a short term or long term award
under the Short Term Incentive Plan or the 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan the Key
Executive Officer Short Term Award paid under the 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan;
or any other award that the Committee designates as a short term or long term
incentive award specifically for purposes of this Plan (regardless of the
purpose of the award) including an award which would otherwise be paid in stock,
other than stock of SBC. 

LEAVE OF
ABSENCE.  Where a person is absent from employment with an Employer on
a formally granted leave of absence (i.e., the absence is with formal permission
in order to prevent a break in the continuity of term of employment, which
permission is granted (and not revoked) in conformity with the rules of the
Employer which employs the individual, as adopted from time to
time).  For purposes of this Plan, a Leave of Absence shall be deemed
to also include a transfer of a person to an entity by an Employer for a
rotational work assignment.  In the event a transfer to such an entity
lasts more than 5 years or the entity's rotational work assignment status is
canceled by SBC, it shall be deemed a Termination of Employment with the
Employer at that time for purposes of this Plan.  To be a rotational
work assignment, the Employer must have indicated in writing to the person that
the person was to be rehired by the Employer on termination of the rotational
work assignment. 

OFFICER.  An
individual who is designated as an officer level employee for salary purposes on
the records of SBC. 

PARTICIPANT.  An
Eligible Employee or former Eligible Employee who participates in this
Plan. 

PRE-TAX
ACCOUNT.  The account maintained on a pre-tax basis on the books of
account of SBC for each Participant. 

RETIREMENT
OR RETIRE.  The Termination of Employment for reasons other than
death, on or after the earlier of the following dates: (1) the date the Employee
is eligible to retire with an immediate pension pursuant to the SBC Supplemental
Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP"); or (2) the date the Employee has attained one
of the following combinations of age and service at Termination of Employment,
except as otherwise indicated below: 

Net Credited
Service                                                                
 Age  

        10 years or
more                                                                       65
or older 

        20 years or
more                                                                       55
or older 

        25 years or
more                                                                       50
or older 

        30 years or
more                                                                       Any
age 

With respect to an Employee who is
granted an EMP Service Pension under and pursuant to the provisions of the SBC
Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained Program upon Termination of Employment, the
term "Retirement" shall include such Employee's Termination of
Employment. 

SUBSIDIARY.  Any
corporation, partnership, venture or other entity in which SBC holds, directly
or indirectly, a 50% or greater ownership interest. SBC may, at its sole
discretion, designate any other corporation, partnership, venture or other
entity a Subsidiary for the purpose of participating in this Plan. 

TERMINATION
OF EMPLOYMENT.  References herein to "Termination of Employment,"
"Terminate Employment" or a similar reference, shall mean the event where the
Employee ceases to be an Employee of any Employer, including but not limited to
where the employing company ceases to be an Employer. 

TERMINATION
UNDER EPR.  In determining whether an Eligible Employee's termination
of employment under the Enhanced Pension and Retirement Program ("EPR") is a
Retirement for purposes of this Plan, five years shall be added to each of age
and net credited service ("NCS").  If with such additional age and
years of service, (1) an Eligible Employee upon such termination of employment
under EPR is Retirement Eligible according to the SBC Supplemental Retirement
Income Plan ("SRIP") or (2) the Eligible Employee upon such termination of
employment under EPR has attained one of the following combinations of age and
service, 

Actual NCS + 5
Years                                                        Actual Age + 5
Years  

        10 years or
more                                                                       65
or older 

        20 years or
more                                                                       55
or older 

        25 years or
more                                                                       50
or older 

        30 years or
more                                                                       Any
age 

then such
termination of employment shall be a Retirement for all purposes under this Plan
and the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to the treatment under this Plan
afforded in the case of a termination of employment which is a
Retirement. 

ARTICLE 3
- - ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

The Committee shall be the
administrator of the Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and
apply its provisions in accordance with its terms. The Committee may further
establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary
or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  References to
determinations or other actions by SBC, herein, shall mean actions authorized by
the Committee, the Chairman, the Senior Executive Vice President of SBC in
charge of Human Resources, or their respective successors or duly authorized
delegates, in each case in the discretion of such person; except that with
respect to Executive Officers, only the Committee may take such
action.  All decisions by SBC shall be final and binding. 

ARTICLE 4
- - CONTRIBUTIONS 

4.1           ELECTION
TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS. 

(a)  An Eligible Employee may
elect to participate in the Plan through payroll deductions contributed to the
Plan as follows (such contributions to the Plan are "Employee
Contributions"): 

(i)  An
Eligible Employee may elect to contribute up to 50% (in whole percentage
increments) of his or her monthly Base Compensation, as the same may change from
time to time; provided, however, any Base Compensation deferral hereunder is
conditioned upon a 30% Base Compensation deferral election being in effect in
the Stock Savings Plan. 

(ii)  An
Eligible Employee may elect to contribute up to 100% (in whole percentage
increments or a specified dollar amount) of an Incentive Award. 

(b)  An
Eligible Employee may only make an election, change an election, or terminate an
election to make Employee Contributions as follows: 

(i)  An
Employee who is an Eligible Employee as of September 30 may make an election on
or prior to the last Business Day of the immediately following November with
respect to the contribution of Base Compensation and/or Incentive Awards paid on
or after the immediately following January 1. 

(ii)  An
Employee who was not an Eligible Employee as of September 30 but who is an
Eligible Employee the immediately following December 31 (or such later date
chosen by SBC, but not later than April 30) may make an election on or prior to
the last Business Day of the immediately following May with respect to the
contribution of Base Compensation and/or Incentive Awards paid on or after the
immediately following July 1. 

SBC may
refuse or terminate any election to make Employee Contributions at any
time. 

4.2           CONTRIBUTIONS
TO PRE-TAX ACCOUNT; INTEREST/DIVIDENDS. 

(a)  Employee Contributions
shall be made solely pursuant to a proper election and only during the
Employee's lifetime and while the Employee remains an Eligible Employee (if the
Employee ceases to be an Eligible Employee, his or her election to make Employee
Contributions shall be cancelled); provided, however, Termination of Employment
of an Eligible Employee shall not constitute loss of eligibility solely with
respect to contribution of Base Compensation earned prior to termination but
paid within 60 days thereafter or with respect to an Incentive Award paid after
Retirement (and such person shall be deemed an Eligible Employee for such
contributions). 

(b)  Employee Contributions
shall be credited to the Participant's Pre-Tax Account in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.2(e) shall bear interest at the applicable Declared Rate
on the balance from month-to-month in such account.  The interest will
be credited monthly to the account at one-twelfth of the annual Declared Rate
for that calendar year compounded quarterly. 

(c)  In addition, if the
Participant's account under the Bell System Senior Management Incentive Award
Deferral Plan ("Predecessor Plan") was transferred to this Plan as of January 1,
1984, the effective date of this Plan, then the Participant's Pre-Tax Account
under this Plan shall be credited as of such date with the amount credited to
the Participant's account under the Predecessor Plan as of December 31, 1983,
and such amount shall bear interest in accordance with the terms of this
Plan. 

(d)  Deferred amounts related
to Incentive Awards which would otherwise have been distributed in shares of
stock other than shares of common stock of SBC shall be credited to the
Participant's Pre-Tax Account as deferred shares.  The Participant's
Pre-Tax Account shall also be credited on each dividend payment date with an
amount equivalent to the dividend payable on the number of such shares equal to
the number of deferred shares in the Participant's Pre-Tax Account on the record
date for such dividend.  Such amount shall then be converted to a
number of additional deferred shares determined by dividing such amount by the
closing price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange on such date, or if
not listed on such exchange, then on the principal market for such
shares.  If not traded on such exchange on such date, then the closing
price on the next preceding day the stock was so traded shall be
utilized. 

In the event of a merger,
reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, separation, liquidation, stock
dividend, stock split, share combination, or stock dividend, stock split or
other change in the corporate structure of the issuer of stock described in the
preceding paragraph, affecting such stock, the Committee shall make an
adjustment to the number and class of shares of deferred stock, in its
discretion, to avoid any dilution or enlargement of rights. 

(e)  Contributions to the
Plan shall be deemed contributed when the compensation would have otherwise
actually been paid (using the "check date" of the payment or contribution) were
it not for an election under this Plan.  For example, a contribution
from a payment of Base Compensation, delayed for any reason, shall be deemed
contributed when the delayed payment is made. 

ARTICLE 5
- - DISTRIBUTIONS 

5.1           DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM PRE-TAX ACCOUNT. 

        (a)  Retirement.  Beginning
March 10 (or such other date as determined by SBC) of the first (1st) calendar
year following the calendar year of the Retirement of a Participant and on March
10 (or such other date as determined by SBC) of each of the successive 14
calendar years, SBC shall distribute to the Participant that portion of the
Participant's Pre-Tax Account that is equal to the total dollar amount of the
Participant's Pre-Tax Account (and/or number of deferred shares then held in the
Participant's Pre-Tax Account) divided by the number of remaining
installments.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant
Retires prior to 2001, then any undistributed portion of the Participant's
Pre-Tax Account will be distributed in a lump sum on March 10 of the fifteenth
(15th) calendar year following the calendar year of the Retirement of the
Participant. 

(b)  Non-Retirement
Termination of Employment.  Beginning March 10 (or such other date as
determined by SBC) of the calendar year following the calendar year of
Termination of Employment which is not a Retirement and on March 10 (or such
other date as determined by SBC) of each of the successive 2 calendar years, SBC
shall distribute that portion of the Participant's Pre-Tax Account that is equal
to the total dollar amount of the Participant's Pre-Tax Account (and/or number
of deferred shares held in the Participant's Pre-Tax Account) divided by the
number of remaining installments. 

(c)  Death.  Notwithstanding
(a) or (b) above to the contrary, in the event of the death of a Participant,
any amounts remaining in the Participant's Pre-Tax Account (and/or number of
deferred shares then held in the Participant's Pre-Tax Account) shall be
promptly distributed to the Participant's beneficiary designated in accordance
with the SBC Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, as the same may be
amended from time to time ("Rules").  If no designation has been made
or if all designated beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the Participant's
Pre-Tax Account shall be distributed according to the Rules. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Plan, if a surviving beneficiary of a Plan participant disclaims in whole
or in part, that beneficiary's interest or share in the distribution of the Plan
participant's Plan proceeds, and such disclaimer satisfies the requirements of
Section 2518(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor provision) and
any applicable state law, such disclaimer shall not constitute an assignment,
transfer or alienation by any method of such interest or share or proceeds and
the portion of such proceeds subject to such disclaimer shall be distributed as
if that beneficiary had predeceased the Plan participant. 

(d)  Discharge for Cause/Non
Competition.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the
contrary, all amounts (including deferred shares) then credited to the
Participant's Pre-Tax Account shall be paid immediately in a single payment if a
Participant is discharged for cause by his or her Employer, or if a Participant
otherwise ceases to be employed by his or her Employer and engages in
competition with SBC or any direct or indirect Subsidiary thereof or with any
business with which a Subsidiary of SBC or an affiliated company has a
substantial interest (collectively referred to herein as an "Employer
Business"), or becomes employed by a governmental agency having jurisdiction
over the activities of SBC or any of its Subsidiaries.  For purposes
hereof, engaging in competition with any Employer business shall mean engaging
by the Participant in any business or activity in the same geographical market
where the same or substantially similar business or activity is being carried on
as an Employer business.  Such term shall not include owning a
nonsubstantial publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that
competes with an Employer business.  However, engaging in competition
with an Employer business shall include representing or providing consulting
services to, or being an employee of, any person or entity that is engaged in
competition with any Employer business or that takes a position adverse to any
Employer business in a judicial, regulatory, legislative or administrative
proceeding.  Further, engaging in competition with an Employer
business would result if the Participant either engages directly in competitive
activity or in any capacity in any location becomes employed by, associated
with, or renders service to any company, or parent or affiliate thereof, or any
subsidiary of any of them, if any of them is engaged in competition with an
Employer business, regardless of the position or duties the Participant takes
and regardless of whether or not the employing company, or the company that the
Participant becomes associated with or renders service to, is itself engaged in
direct competition with an Employer business. 

(e)  Deferred amounts held
pending distribution shall continue to be credited with interest or additional
deferred shares, as applicable, determined in accordance with Section 4.2(b) or
4.2 (d), as applicable. 

(f)  The obligation to make
distribution of deferred amounts credited to a Participant's Pre-Tax Account
during any calendar year, plus the additional amounts credited on such deferred
amounts pursuant to Section 4.2(b) or 4.2(d), as applicable, shall be borne by
SBC or the applicable Employer which otherwise would have paid the related award
currently.  However, the obligation to make distributions with respect
to deferred amounts which are related to amounts credited to a Participant's
Pre-Tax Account as of the effective date of the Plan pursuant to Section 4.2(c),
and with respect to which no SBC company would otherwise have paid the related
award currently, shall be borne by the Employer which employed the Participant
on the effective date of the Plan. 

(g)  For the purpose of this
Plan, a beneficiary designation like that described in Section 5.1(c) that was
made under the comparable provisions of the Predecessor Plan shall be considered
as a beneficiary designation made under Section 5.1(c). 

(h)  Notwithstanding the
other provisions of this Section 5.1 to the contrary, but subject to the
provisions of Section 5.2(b), a Participant who was a Participant on, and made
contributions to the Plan prior to, September 1, 2000, may request that receipt
of the cash portion of Participant's Pre-Tax Account be deferred to
Participant's death, or to be received earlier if accelerated in accordance with
the provisions of 5.2(a). Approval of such request shall be in SBC's sole
discretion. 

5.2           ACCELERATED
DISTRIBUTION. 

(a)  On or before the last
Business Day of a calendar year, a Participant may elect to receive a
distribution of all or a portion of the Participant's Pre-Tax
Account.  Such distribution shall be made March 10 (or such other date
as determined by SBC) of the immediately following calendar
year.  This distribution shall be in addition to the portion of the
Pre-Tax Account to be distributed at the same time under Section 5.1, which
distribution shall be calculated without regard to an election under this
section. 

(b)  In the event the
Participant Terminates Employment for reasons other than Retirement, SBC may, at
its sole discretion, accelerate the distribution of all or a portion of a
Participant's Pre-Tax Account to the date of SBC's choosing, without notice to,
or the consent of, the Participant. 

5.3           SMALL
DISTRIBUTION. 

Notwithstanding any election made by
the Participant, after the Termination of Employment of the Participant for any
reason, if at the time the total value of the Participant's Pre-Tax Account is
less than $10,000, SBC may, in its discretion, distribute all of such account in
the form of a lump sum distribution. 

5.4       DETERMINATION
BY INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE. 

In the event that a final determination
shall be made by the Internal Revenue Service or any court of competent
jurisdiction that a Participant has recognized gross income for Federal income
tax purposes in excess of the portion of Participant's Pre-Tax Account actually
distributed by SBC, SBC shall promptly distribute to the Participant that
portion of Participant's Pre-Tax Account to which such additional gross income
is attributable. 

5.5       EMERGENCY
DISTRIBUTION. 

In the event that SBC, upon written
petition of the Participant, determines in its sole discretion that the
Participant has suffered an unforeseeable financial emergency, SBC shall
distribute to the Participant, as soon as practicable following such
determination, that portion of Participant's Pre-Tax Account determined by SBC
to meet the emergency (the "Emergency Distribution).  For purposes of
this Plan, an unforeseeable financial emergency is an unexpected need for cash
arising from an illness, casualty loss, sudden financial reversal, or other such
unforeseeable occurrence.  Cash needs arising from foreseeable events
such as the purchase of a house or education expenses for children shall not be
considered to be the result of an unforeseeable financial
emergency.  Upon such distribution, any election to make Employee
Contributions by such Participant shall be immediately cancelled, and the
Participant shall not be permitted to make a new election with respect to
Employee Contributions that would be contributed during the then current and
immediately following calendar year. 

5.6       INELIGIBLE
PARTICIPANT.  

        Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Plan to the contrary, if SBC receives an opinion from counsel selected by
SBC, or a final determination is made by a Federal, state or local government or
agency, acting within its scope of authority, to the effect that an individual
is not, or was not at the time of his or her making Employee Contributions to
this Plan, to be a member of Employer's "select group of management or highly
compensated employees" within the meaning of ERISA, then such person will not be
eligible to participate in this Plan and shall receive an immediate lump sum
distribution of the Participant's Pre-Tax Account.  Upon such payment
no other distribution shall thereafter be payable under this Plan either to the
individual or any beneficiary of the individual, except as provided under
Section 8.1 Additional Benefit. 

ARTICLE 6
- - TRANSITION PROVISIONS 

The transition rules of this Article 6
shall supercede all other terms of this Plan. 

6.1       EFFECTIVE
DATES.  

        Except as otherwise provided herein,
the amendments to this Plan made September 1, 2000 (the "2000 Amendments")
shall be effective September 1, 2000, and no election regarding the further
deferral of a distribution of contributions to this Plan may be made on or after
September 1, 2000. 

6.2           COMBINATION
OF EXISTING CONTRIBUTIONS. 

(a)  Effective January 1,
2001, all prior contributions made to the Plan by a Participant shall be
combined into Participant's single Pre-Tax Account. 

(b)  To the extent any
Participant who retires before 2001 would, were it not for the 2000 Amendments,
under valid elections made prior to September 1, 2000, receive a distribution
that would extend the Participant's distributions beyond 2015, then the
contributions so affected shall not be combined with other contributions and
shall be distributed in accordance with such
elections.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant may, with
the consent of SBC, elect to have all of Participant's contributions to the Plan
governed by this Plan as in effect after September 1, 2000. 

(c)  In the event a
Participant dies prior to 2001, the Participant's accounts shall not be combined
with and shall be distributed in accordance with the Plan as it existed
immediately prior to September 1, 2000. 

6.3           TERMINATION
OF ELECTIONS. 

(a)  Distributions from the
Plan that would be made in the year 2000 under the Plan as it existed
immediately prior to September 1, 2000, based on elections made before September
1, 2000, shall continue to be made in the year 2000 as provided in the Plan
immediately prior to September 1, 2000. All other distribution elections are
cancelled, including but not limited to distributions which have already
commenced, but only to the extent such elections call for distributions after
the year 2000.  All amounts (or shares) remaining undistributed after
such distributions shall be held and distributed in accordance with the terms of
the Plan as in effect after September 1, 2000. 

(b)  Contributions to the
Plan that would be made in the year 2000 under the Plan as it existed
immediately prior to September 1, 2000, based on elections made before September
1, 2000, shall continue to be made in the year 2000 as provided in the Plan
immediately prior to September 1, 2000. Elections to participate in the Plan
shall not automatically be renewed for the year 2001.  Each Eligible
Employee must make a new election after September 1, 2000, in order to make
Employee Contributions after 2000. Provided, however, valid elections made prior
to September 1, 2000, to contribute Incentive Awards in 2001 shall be valid
elections under this Plan. 

6.4       ANNUAL
BASE SALARY CONTRIBUTION TRANSITION.  

        Annual base salary earned prior to
January 1, 2001, shall be contributed when earned, while annual base salary
earned on or after such date shall be contributed when paid. In order to avoid
any double contribution of annual base salary, that part of annual base salary
earned in the year 2000 shall not be included in any determination of
contributions to the Plan in a later calendar year, even though paid in such
calendar year. 

ARTICLE 7
- - DISCONTINUATION, TERMINATION, AMENDMENT. 

7.1       SBC'S
RIGHT TO TERMINATE PLAN.  

        The Committee may terminate the Plan at
any time.  Upon termination of the Plan, contributions shall no longer
be made under the Plan. 

After termination of the Plan,
Participants shall continue to earn interest/dividend equivalents and shall
continue to receive all distributions under this Plan at such time as provided
in and pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Plan at the time of the
Plan's termination. 

This Plan may be modified or terminated
at any time in accordance with the provisions of SBC's Schedule of
Authorizations; provided, however, that no amendment, including but not limited
to an amendment to this section, shall be effective, without the consent of a
Participant, to alter, to the material detriment of such Participant, the
distributions described in this Plan as applicable to the Participant or to
decrease such Participant's Pre-Tax Account.  For purposes of this
section, an alteration to the material detriment of a Participant shall mean a
material reduction in the period of time over which Participant's Pre-Tax
Account may be distributed to a Participant or a reduction in the amounts then
credited to a Participant's Pre-Tax Account.  Any such consent may be
in a writing, telecopy, or e-mail or in another electronic format.  An
election to make Employee Contributions and the failure to terminate an election
to make Employee Contributions when able to do so shall each be conclusively
deemed to be the consent of the Participant to any and all amendments to the
Plan prior to such election or failure to terminate an election, and such
consent shall be a condition to making any election with respect to Employee
Contributions. 

ARTICLE 8
- - MISCELLANEOUS 

The reduction of any benefit payable
under the SBC Pension Benefit Plan (or comparable plan identified by SBC as a
replacement therefore), which results from participation in this Plan, will be
restored as an additional benefit ("make-up piece") under this
Plan.  The Participant shall elect prior to commencement of payment of
the make-up piece whether to receive such benefit in cash in a lump sum
(consisting of the present value equivalent of the pension retirement benefit
(life annuity) make-up piece) or such benefit in an annuity form of
payment.  Notwithstanding the proceeding provisions of this section,
if all or a portion of the make-up piece is paid pursuant to SRIP or another
non-qualified plan, then such amount shall not be payable pursuant to this
Plan. 

Upon a distribution from Participant's
Pre-Tax Account, SBC shall withhold such amount (or shares) as determined by SBC
to satisfy the minimum amount of Federal, state, and local taxes required by law
to be withheld as a result of such distribution, or such greater amount as
specified by the Participant. 

8.3   

ELECTIONS
      AND NOTICES. 

Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of every kind shall
be made on forms prepared by SBC or made in such other manner as permitted or
required by SBC, including through electronic means, over the Internet or
otherwise.  An election shall be deemed made when received by SBC,
which may waive any defects in form.  Unless made irrevocable by the
electing person, each election with regard to making Employee Contributions or
distributions under the Plan shall become irrevocable at the close of business
on the last day to make such election. SBC may limit the time an election may be
made in advance of any deadline. 

Any notice or filing required or
permitted to be given to SBC under the Plan shall be delivered to the principal
office of SBC, directed to the attention of the Senior Executive Vice
President-Human Resources of SBC or his or her successor. Such notice shall be
deemed given on the date of delivery. 

Notice to the Participant shall be
deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the Participant's work or home
address as shown on the records of SBC or, at the option of SBC, to the
Participant's e-mail address as shown on the records of SBC.  It is
the Participant's responsibility to ensure that the Participant's addresses are
kept up to date on the records of SBC.  In the case of notices
affecting multiple Participants, the notices may be given by general
distribution at the Participants' work locations. 

By participating in the Plan, each
Participant agrees that SBC may provide any documents required or permitted
under the Federal or state securities laws, including but not limited to the
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by e-mail, by
e-mail attachment, or by notice by e-mail of electronic delivery through SBC's
Internet Web site or by other electronic means. 

8.4   

UNSECURED
      GENERAL CREDITOR. 

Participants and their beneficiaries,
heirs, successors, and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights,
interest, or claims in any property or assets of any Employer.  No
assets of any Employer shall be held under any trust for the benefit of
Participants, their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or assigns, or held in any
way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations of any Employer
under this Plan.  Any and all of each Employer's assets shall be, and
remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of such
Employer.  The only obligation of an Employer under the Plan shall be
merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of SBC to make distributions
under, and in accordance with the terms of, the Plan. 

SBC may offset against the amount (or
shares) otherwise distributable to a Participant, any amounts due an Employer by
a Participant, including but not limited to overpayments under any compensation
or benefit plans. 

Neither a Participant nor any other
person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge,
anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in
advance of actual receipt, any amounts (or shares) distributable under the Plan,
or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared
to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amount (or
shares) distributable shall, prior to actual distribution, be subject to seizure
or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate
maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by
operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's
bankruptcy or insolvency. 

8.7   

EMPLOYMENT
      NOT GUARANTEED. 

Nothing contained in this Plan nor any
action taken hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or as
giving any employee any right to be retained in the employ of an Employer or to
serve as a director. 

At any time SBC may correct any error
made under the Plan without prejudice to SBC.  Such corrections may
include, among other things, refunding contributions to a Participant with
respect to any period he or she made Employee Contributions while not an
Eligible Employee, or canceling the enrollment of a non-Eligible
Employee. 

The captions of the articles, sections,
and paragraphs of this Plan are for convenience only and shall not control nor
affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions. 

8.10          GOVERNING
LAW. 

To the extent not preempted by ERISA,
this Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive
laws of the State of Texas, excluding any conflicts or choice of law, rule or
principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Plan
to provisions of the substantive law of any jurisdiction other than the State of
Texas.  Any actions seeking to enforce the rights of an employee,
former employee or person who holds such rights through, from or on behalf of
such employee or former employee under this plan may be brought only in a
federal or state court located in Bexar County, Texas. 

In the event any provision of this Plan
is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any
respect whatsoever, the validity of any other provision of this
Plan. 

This Plan shall be binding upon SBC and
its successors and assigns. 

SBC
Communications Inc. 

SENIOR
MANAGEMENT LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN 

Plan
Effective:  January 1, 1984 

Section
1.             Definitions 

1.       Plan
shall mean the SBC Communications Inc. Senior Management Long Term Disability
Plan. 

2.           Employer
shall mean SBC Communications Inc. or any of its subsidiaries that participate
in the Plan. 

3.           Pension
Plan shall mean the SBC Communications Inc. Management Pension
Plan. 

4.           Disability
Benefit Plan shall mean the SBC Communications Inc. Sickness and Accident
Disability Benefit Plan. 

5.           Mid-Career
Pension Plan shall mean the SBC Communications Inc. Mid-Career Pension
Plan. 

6.           Short
Term Plan shall mean the SBC Communications Inc. Short Term Incentive
Plan. 

7.           Committee
shall mean the Administrative Committee appointed by the Vice President-Human
Resources.  It shall consist of three managers, one of whom will be a
Senior Manager. 

8(a)       Participant,
for purpose of the Disability Allowance under Section 2, shall mean a Senior
Manager on the active rolls of an Employer on or after the effective date of the
Plan. 

8(b)       Participant,
for purposes of the Senior Management survivor Benefit under Section 3, shall
mean a former employee of an Employer who was a Participant under paragraph 8(a)
above on the last day of employment, if such former employee is eligible to
receive a Disability Allowance under Section 2. 

8(c)       Participant,
for purposes of the Medical Expense Benefit under Section 6, shall mean a former
employee of an Employer who was a Participant under paragraph 8(a) above the
last day of Employment, if such former employee is eligible to receive a
Disability Allowance under Section 2. 

8(d)       For
purposes of paragraph 8(b) and 8(c) above, a former employee shall be considered
to be eligible to receive a Disability Allowance under Section 2 if he has met
the conditions specified in Section 2, even though the receipt of other benefits
by such former employee precludes his receipt of any benefits under Section
2. 

9.           Term
of Employment. shall have the same meaning as the meaning assigned to such
expression in the Pension Plan. 

10.         Annual
Basic Pay shall mean the Participant's annual base salary rate (as determined by
the Employer) on the last day the Participant was on the active payroll, but
excluding all differentials regarded as temporary or extra payments and all cash
payments and distributions made under the Short Term Plan and the SBC
Communications Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan.  The base salary rate in
Section 2, paragraph 3, shall be the base salary amount prior to any reduction
as a result of the Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan. 

11.          The
use of personal pronouns of the masculine gender in the Plan is intended to
include both masculine and feminine genders. 

Section
2.              Disability
Allowance. 

1(a)         A
participant shall be considered to be "disabled" at any time during the first
fifty-two week period following the onset of a physical or mental impairment if
such impairment prevents the Participant from meeting the performance
requirements of the position held immediately preceding the onset of the
physical or mental impairment. 

1(b)         A
Participant shall be considered to be "disabled" after the first fifty-two week
period following the onset of a physical or mental impairment if such impairment
prevents the Participant from meeting the performance requirements of (1) the
position held immediately preceding the onset of the physical or mental
impairment, (2) a similar position, or (3) any appropriate position which the
Participant would otherwise be capable of performing by reason of the
Participant's background and experience. 

1(c)         The
Committee shall make the determination of whether a Participant is disabled
within the meaning of paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) above. 

2.           A
Participant who is disabled during a period described in paragraph 1(a) of this
Section 2 shall be eligible to receive a monthly disability allowance equal to
100 percent of the Participant's monthly base salary rate on the last day the
Participant was on the active payroll, reduced by any amounts described in
paragraph 5(a) of this Section 2 which are attributable to the period for which
benefits are provided under this paragraph. 

3.           A
Participant who is disabled during a period described in paragraph 1(b) shall,
prior to his sixty-fifth birthday, be eligible to receive a monthly disability
allowance equal to eighty percent of the Participant's monthly base salary rate,
prior to any deferral amount under the Senior Management Deferred Compensation
Plan, on the last day the Participant was on the active payroll, reduced by any
amounts described in paragraph 4(b) of this Section 2 which was attributable to
the period for which benefits are provided under this paragraph. 

4(a)           The
disability allowance determined for any period under paragraph 2 of this Section
2 shall be reduced by the sum of the following benefits received by the
Participant which are attributable to the period for which such disability
allowance is provided: a service pension, deferred vested pension, or disability
pension under the Pension plan, a pension under the Mid-Career Pension Plan, an
accident disability benefit or sickness disability benefit under the Disability
Benefit Plan, any Workers' Compensation Benefit, plus any other benefit payments
required by law on account of the Participant's disability.  However,
no reduction shall be made on account of any pension under the Pension Plan, or
the Mid-Career Pension Plan at a rate greater than the rate of such pension on
the date the Participant first received such pension after his
disability. 

4(b)           The
disability allowance determined for any period under paragraph 3 of this Section
2 shall be reduced by the sum of the following benefits received by the
Participant which are attributable to the period for which such disability
allowance is provided: a service pension, deferred vested pension or disability
pension under the Pension Plan, a pension under the Mid-Career Pension Plan, an
accident disability benefit under the Disability Benefit Plan, any other
retirement income payments from the employee's Employer, plus any Worker's
Compensation Benefit.  However, no reduction shall be made on account
of any pension under the Pension Plan, or the Mid-Career Pension Plan at a rate
greater than the rate of such pension on the date the Participant first received
such pension after his disability. 

Furthermore, the Board of Directors of
the employee's Employer in its discretion may reduce the disability allowance by
the amount of outside compensation or earnings of the Participant for work
performed by the Participant during the period for which such disability
allowance is provided. 

5.           For
purposes of paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) of this Section 2, the measurement of time
following the onset of a physical or mental impairment shall coincide with the
measurement of time used to calculate the period of Sickness and Disability
Benefit Plan.  Successive periods of physical or mental impairment
shall be counted together in computing the periods during which the Participant
shall be entitled to the benefits provided under paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 of
this Section 2, except that any disability absence after the Participant has
been continuously engaged in the performance of duty for thirteen weeks shall be
considered to commence a new period of physical or mental impairment under
paragraph 1(a), so that such Participant shall be entitled during such new
period to the benefits provided under paragraph 2 of this Section
2. 

Section
3             Life
Insurance Benefits.  A Participant described in paragraph 8(b) of
Section 1, who has not retired on a service pension or a disability pension
under the Pension Plan, shall be entitled to the same rights and benefits under
the SBC Communications Inc. Senior Management Survivor Benefit Plan, and under
the Supplementary Life Insurance Plan, as if the employee had retired on a
service pension or a disability pension under the Pension Plan and had elected
the Alternate Death Benefit under the Senior Management Survivor Benefit
Plan. 

Section
4             Medical
Expense Benefits.  A Participant described in paragraph 8(c) of
Section 1, who has not retired on a service pension or a disability pension
under the Pension Plan, shall be entitled to the same rights and benefits under
the SBC Communications Inc. Medical Expense Plan, and Dental Expense Plan as an
employee who retired on a service or a disability pension under the Pension
Plan. 

Section
5             Claims
and Appeals.  Any claim under the Plan by a Participant, or by anyone
claiming through a Participant, shall be presented to the
Committee.  Any person whose claim under the Plan has been denied may
(and must for the purpose of seeking any further review of a decision or
determining any entitlement to a benefit under the Plan), within 60 days after
receipt of notice of denial, submit to the Human Resources Committee of the SBC
Communications Inc. Board of Directors a written request for review of the
decision denying the claim.  The Human Resources Committee shall
determine conclusively for all parties all questions arising in the
administration of the Plan. 

Section
6             
General Provisions. 

1.       The Plan
shall be effective on January 1, 1984. 

2.           The
rights of a Participant or his spouse to benefits under the Plan shall not be
subject to assignment or alienation. 

3.           SBC
Communications Inc. may from time to time make changes in the Plan and may
terminate the Plan.  In addition, the Vice President-Human Resources
of the SBC Communications Inc. (or any successor to the officer's
responsibilities), shall be authorized to make minor or administrative changes
to the Plan, as well as changes dictated by the requirement of Federal or state
statutes or authorized or made desirable by such statutes.  Such
changes or termination shall not affect the rights of any Participant, without
his consent, to any benefit under the Plan to which such Participant may have
previously become entitled as a result of a disability, death or termination of
Employment which occurred prior to the effective date of such change or
termination. 

4.           In
case of accident resulting in injury to or death of a Participant which entitles
the Participant to benefits under the Plan, the Participant may elect to accept
such benefits or to prosecute such claims at law as the Participant may have
against the Employer.  If election is made to accept the benefits
under the Plan, such election shall be in writing and shall release the Employer
from all claims and demands which the Participant may have against it, otherwise
than under this Plan or under any other plan maintained by the Employer, on
account of such accident.  The Committee, in its discretion, may
require that the election described above shall release any other company
connected with the accident, including any company participating in the Pension
Plan.  The right of the Participant to a disability allowance under
Section 2 of the Plan shall lapse if election to accept such benefits, as above
provided, is not made within sixty days after injury, or within such greater
time as the Committee shall, by resolution duly entered on its records, fix for
the making of such election. 

5.           Should
claim, other than under this Plan or under any other plan maintained by the
Employer, by presented or suit brought against the Employer, or against any
other company participating in the Pension Plan, for damages on account of
injury or death of a Participant, nothing shall by payable under this Plan on
account of such injury or death except as provided in paragraph 6 of this
Section 6; provided however, that the Committee may, in its discretion and upon
such terms as it may prescribe waive this provision if such claims be withdrawn
or if such suit be discontinued. 

6.           In
case any judgment is recovered against the Employer or any settlement is made of
any claim or suit on account of the injury or death of a Participant, and the
total amount which would otherwise have been payable under the Plan and under
any other plan maintained by the Employer is greater than the amount paid on
account of such judgment or settlement, the lesser of (1) the difference between
such two amounts, or (2) the amount which would otherwise have been payable
under this Plan, may in the discretion of the Committee be distributed to the
beneficiaries who would have received benefits under this Plan. 

7.           All
benefits provided under the Plan with respect to a Participant shall be
forfeited and cancelled in their entirety if the Participant, without the
consent of the Employer and while employed by the Employer or after termination
of such Employment, becomes associated with, becomes employed by or renders
service to, or owns an interest in any business (other than as a shareholder
with a nonsubstantial interest in such business) that is competitive with the
Employer or with any business with which a subsidiary or affiliated Company has
a substantial interest, as determined by the Employer's Board of Directors. All
benefits provided under the Plan with respect to a Participant shall be
forfeited and cancelled in their entirety if the Participant is discharged by
the Employer for cause or the Participant engages in misconduct in connection
with the Participant's Employment. 

8.           Each
Employer, the Committee, and the Human Resources Committee of the SBC
Communications Inc.'s Board of Directors is each a named fiduciary as that term
is used in ERISA with respect to the particular duties and responsibilities
herein provided to be allocated to each of them, respectively. 

9.           All
benefits authorized under the Plan shall be a charge to the operating expense
accounts of the Participant's Employer when and as paid. 

10.         The
expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Employers in such
proportions as shall be mutually agreed upon by such Employers. 

SBC
Communications Inc. 

SUPPLEMENTAL
HEALTH PLAN 

Effective:  January
1, 1987 

      Revisions
Effective:  March 19, 2001 

EXECUTIVE
HEALTH PLAN 

1.   

Purpose.  The
      Supplemental Health Plan ("Plan") provides
  Eligible 

Employees
and their eligible dependents with supplemental medical, dental and 

      vision
benefits. 

2.   

Definitions.  For
      purposes of this Plan, the following words
and 

phrases
shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly
indicates 

      otherwise: 

CHAIRMAN.  "Chairman"
shall mean the Chairman of the Board of SBC Communications Inc. 

COMMITTEE.  "Committee"
shall mean the Human Resources Committee of the Board of SBC Communications
Inc. 

ELIGIBLE
EMPLOYEE.  "Eligible Employee" shall mean an Officer. 

OFFICER.  "Officer"
shall mean an individual who is designated by the Chairman as eligible to
participate in the Plan who is an elected officer of SBC or of any SBC
subsidiary (direct or indirect). 

RETIREMENT.  "Retirement"
shall mean the termination of an Eligible Employee's employment with SBC or any
of its subsidiaries, for reasons other than death, on or after the earlier of
the following dates: (1) the date the Eligible Employee is Retirement Eligible
as such term is defined in the SBC Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP");
or (2) the date the Eligible Employee has attained one of the following
combinations of age and service at termination of employment on or after April
1, 1997, except as otherwise indicated below: 

Net Credited
Service                                       Age  

        10 years or
more                                           65
or older 

        20 years or
more                                           55
or older 

        25 years or
more                                           50
or older 

        30 years or
more                                           Any
age 

With respect to an Eligible Employee
who is granted an EMP Service Pension under and pursuant to the provisions of
the SBC Pension Benefit Plan  -  Nonbargained Program
("SBCPBP") upon termination of Employment, the term "Retirement" shall include
such Eligible Employee's termination of employment. 

TERMINATION
UNDER EPR.  In determining whether an Eligible Employee's termination
of employment under the Enhanced Pension and Retirement Program ("EPR") is a
Retirement for purposes of this Plan, five years shall be added to each of age
and net credited service ("NCS").  If with such additional age and
years of service, (1) an Eligible Employee upon such termination of employment
under EPR is Retirement Eligible according to the SBC Supplemental Retirement
Income Plan ("SRIP") or (2) the Eligible Employee upon such termination of
employment under EPR has attained one of the following combinations of age and
service, 

Actual NCS + 5
Years                                    Actual Age + 5
Years  

        10 years or
more                                           65
or older 

        20 years or
more                                           55
or older 

        25 years or
more                                           50
or older 

        30 years or
more                                           Any
age 

then such
termination of employment shall be a Retirement for all purposes under this Plan
and the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to the treatment under this Plan
afforded in the case of a termination of employment which is a
Retirement. 

SBC.  "SBC"
shall mean SBC Communications Inc. 

3           Eligibility.  Each
Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in this Plan along with his
or her eligible dependents.  Eligible dependents are those covered
under the Eligible Employee's SBC company's basic managed care medical, dental,
and vision care plans ("Basic Plans"). 

Provisions of this Plan will continue
in effect during Retirement for each Eligible Employee who became an Eligible
Employee on or after January 1, 1987 but before January 1,
1999.  Dependent coverage will also continue during the Retirement
period for an Eligible Employee who became an Eligible Employee on or after
January 1, 1987 but before January 1, 1999.  An Eligible Employee who
becomes an Eligible Employee after December 31, 1998 shall not be eligible
hereunder for coverage during Retirement. 

Eligible Employees as of October 1,
1998 must elect to continue coverage effective January 1, 1999 by December 31,
1998.  An Eligible Employee who becomes an Eligible Employee after
October 1, 1998 shall have 90 days after becoming an Eligible Employee to elect
coverage under this Plan.  Coverage will remain in effect as long as
the applicable contribution is paid by the Eligible
Employee.  However, once an Eligible Employee terminates coverage he
or she may not reinstate such coverage. 

4.           (a)           Coverage.  Subject
to the limitations in this Section, this Plan provides 100% coverage of all
medical, dental and vision expenses not covered by the Eligible Employee's Basic
Plans provided such expenses for such services would qualify as deductible
medical expenses for federal income tax purposes, whether deducted or
not.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary,
an employee who first becomes an Eligible Employee mid-year and who is enrolled
in SBC sponsored medical plans other than his or her company's Basic Plans
(e.g., HMO) will be allowed to participate in the Plan for the remainder of the
calendar year along with his or her dependents who are enrolled in such other
SBC sponsored Plans, as if he or she was participating in his or her company's
Basic Plans.  Thereafter, to participate in the Plan, the Eligible
Employee, as well as his or her dependents for whom coverage is desired under
this Plan, must be enrolled in the Basic Plans to have coverage
hereunder.  Expenses incurred by any Eligible Employee or any of his
or her eligible dependents under this Plan shall not exceed $50,000 per year per
individual.  Effective January 1, 1998, expenses incurred by any
Eligible Employee and his or her eligible dependents under this Plan shall not
exceed $100,000 total per Plan year (i.e., January 1 through December
31).  Expenses covered by the Basic Plans will not be included in
these limits. 

Claims will be applied against the
various health plans in the following order: 

(1)           Medicare
if participant is eligible for same, 

        (2)           Group
Health Plans, 

        (3)           CarePlus
if elected and applicable, 

        (4)           Long
Term Care Plan if elected and applicable, 

        (5)           this
Plan. 

(b)           Substitute
Basic Coverage.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to
the contrary, if upon Retirement, an Eligible Employee is eligible for coverage
under this Plan during Retirement, but not eligible for coverage under the Basic
Plans, this Plan shall provide all medical, dental and vision expenses as if
such Eligible Employee had been eligible for Non-Network coverage under the
Basic Plans (hereinafter, "Substitute Basic Coverage").  Such
Substitute Basic Coverage shall be subject to the same terms and conditions,
including monthly retiree contributions, copays, etc. (if any), as would be
applicable to the Eligible Employees and dependents if provided under the Basic
Plans and shall constitute such Eligible Employee's Basic Plans for all purposes
under this Plan.  The costs of Substitute Basic Coverage (except for
any monthly contributions, copays, etc.) shall be borne by SBC and shall not be
included in the determination of any Eligible Employee's annual Plan
contribution amount as provided in Section 5. 

5.           Costs.  Except
as provided below in this Section, costs and expenses incurred in the operation
and administration of this Plan will be borne by SBC; and each subsidiary will
be required to reimburse SBC for applicable costs and expenses attributable to
Eligible Employees employed by it: 

Effective January 1, 1999, an Eligible
Employee electing coverage under the Plan will pay for coverage under the Plan
while in active service.  Such Eligible Employee's annual contribution
amount will be equal to 10% of SBC's actual costs per Eligible Employee for the
prior Plan year. 

Effective with respect to a retirement
occurring on or after January 1, 1999, an Eligible Employee who became an
Eligible Employee before January 1, 1999 and who elects retirement coverage
under the Plan will pay for coverage under the Plan during retirement. Such
Eligible Employee's annual contribution amount during retirement will be equal
to a percentage of SBC's actual costs per Eligible Employee for the prior Plan
year according to the following: 

The contribution percentage to be used
shall be the lower of the Annual Contribution Percentage determined using each
Eligible Employee's Age or Years Until Retirement as of December 31,
1997: 

Age  

Annual  

                 Contribution  

                 Percentage  

OR  

Years Until  

                 Retirement  

Annual  

                 Contribution  

                 Percentage  

if
      age 55 or older 

10% 

if
      retirement eligible 

10% 

if
      age 50 or older but less 

                than
      55 

25% 

if
      not retirement eligible 

10%
      plus 5% for 

                each
      whole year* until retirement eligibility(not to exceed
  50%) 

if
      less than age 50 

50% 

*in the event an Eligible Employee is
less than one whole year from retirement eligibility, the Annual Contribution
Percentage shall be determined as if one whole year from retirement
eligibility 

Coverage will remain in effect as long
as the applicable contribution is paid by the Retiree.  However, once
a Retiree terminates coverage he or she may not reinstate such
coverage. 

6.           Non-Competition.  Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan, no coverage shall be provided under this Plan
with respect to any Eligible Employee who shall, without the written consent of
SBC, and while employed by SBC or any subsidiary thereof, or within three (3)
years after termination of employment from SBC or any subsidiary thereof, engage
in competition with SBC or any subsidiary thereof or with any business with
which a subsidiary of SBC or an affiliated company has a substantial interest
(collectively referred to herein as "Employer business").  For
purposes of this Plan, engaging in competition with any Employer business shall
mean engaging by Eligible Employee in any business or activity in the same
geographical market where the same or substantially similar business or activity
is being carried on as an Employer business.  Such term shall not
include owning a nonsubstantial publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a
business that competes with an Employer business.  However, engaging
in competition with an Employer business shall include representing or providing
consulting services to, or being an employee of, any person or entity that is
engaged in competition with any Employer business or that takes a position
adverse to any Employer business.  Accordingly, coverage shall not be
provided under this Plan if, within the time period and without the written
consent specified, Eligible Employee either engages directly in competitive
activity or in any capacity in any location becomes employed by, associated
with, or renders service to any company, or parent or affiliate thereof, or any
subsidiary of any of them, if any of them is engaged in competition with an
Employer business, regardless of the position or duties the Eligible Employee
takes and regardless of whether or not the employing company, or the company
that Eligible Employee becomes associated with or renders service to, is itself
engaged in direct competition with an Employer business. 

7.           Administration.  Subject
to the terms of the Plan, the Chairman shall establish such rules as are deemed
necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.  SBC will compute
a "gross-up" allowance which will be paid to an Eligible Employee to offset
income tax liabilities incurred as a result of receiving benefits under this
Plan. 

8.           Amendments
and Termination.  This Plan may be modified or terminated at any time
in accordance with the provisions of SBC's Schedule of
Authorizations. 

SUPPLEMENTAL
HEALTH PLAN ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES 

1.      General.  The
purpose of these guidelines is to list the procedures to be followed in
administering the Supplemental Health Plan ("SHP"). 

The Senior Vice President - Human
Resources will establish internal procedures and group insurance policies with
health carrier(s) as appropriate to carry out the provisions of the
Plan. 

2.      Coverage
Considerations. 

Eligible
Employees: 

Coverage is provided only for an
Eligible Employee covered by a subsidiary's basic medical plan ("basic plan"),
except as otherwise provided for in Section 4 of the Plan. 

Coverage continues during periods of
disability and during retirement in certain circumstances as described in the
Plan.  Coverage during such periods shall be the same as provided to
active Eligible Employees. 

Coverage for a new Eligible Employee is
effective the first day of the month in which the employee is declared to be
eligible to participate in the Plan by the Chairman. 

Coverage will cease on the last day of
the month in which one of the following conditions exist: 

(a)   

Eligible
      Employee is no longer a participant in the Basic
  Plan 

(b)      termination
of Eligible Employee from active service for reasons other than disability or
the retirement of an Eligible Employee who became an Eligible Employee before
January 1, 1999 

(c)      death of
Eligible Employee (unless surviving dependents continue coverage under basic
plan) 

(d)      demotion
of Eligible Employee so as to no longer be eligible to participate in the
Plan 

(e)      transfer
to a subsidiary that will not bear expenses for the Eligible Employee to
participate in the Plan 

(f)      Eligible
Employee engages in competitive activity 

(g)      discontinuance
of the Plan by SBC or a subsidiary 

Dependents: 

Coverage is provided for dependents of
a covered Eligible Employee if the dependents are covered by the basic
plan. 

If coverage for a dependent ceases
under the basic plan, coverage under this Plan will cease with the same
effective date. 

If coverage for the Eligible Employee
under this Plan ceases for any reason, dependent coverage will cease with the
same effective date except where employee coverage ceases due to death of the
Eligible Employee, the Plan will continue in effect for surviving dependents as
long as the dependents are covered under the basic plan (through automatic
coverage or through payment of basic premiums) and are paying any applicable
premiums under this Plan. 

3.      Enrollment.  Upon
approval as an Eligible Employee, enrollment in the basic plan and payment of
any applicable premium under this Plan, the Eligible Employee and current
dependents (provided they are also enrolled in the basic plan) shall be covered
under the Plan.  The Executive Compensation Administration (ECA)
contact will forward a portfolio to the Eligible Employee including the
following: 

(a)           Blank
claim forms (5 to 10 copies) 

(b)           Blue
return envelopes (5 to 10) 

(c)       Filing
instructions 

(d)       Cards
with Eligible Employee's name imprinted (for use for Eligible Employee, spouse,
and eligible dependents) 

As a matter of convenience for the
Eligible Employee, the ECA contact will advise the appropriate payroll office
regarding the enrollment and withholding of basic coverage premiums for class II
or sponsored dependents not already enrolled in the basic plan.  The
premium paid for dependents is at the rate specified for basic coverage
only.  There is no additional premium to be paid for SHP coverage for
the dependent. Withholding of dependent basic premiums for retired Eligible
Employees, where applicable, shall be handled in the same manner as other
withholding arrangements for retired executives. 

Each month, the ECA contact will
provide the SHP carrier and subsidiary benefit administration groups with a list
of Eligible Employees currently enrolled in the Plan.  The ECA contact
will provide updated dependent information to the carrier whenever new or
revised Dependent Enrollment Forms are received from Eligible
Employees. 

4.      Eligible
Charges.  Charges for medical care will be eligible under this Plan if
they are also eligible medical expenses as defined in the Internal Revenue
Code.  In general, medical expenses are defined to include any amounts
paid for the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease or
for the purpose of affecting any structure or function of the body, and
transportation for and essential to medical care.  Amounts paid for
illegal operations or treatments are not eligible medical
expenses.  In addition, expenses incurred which are merely beneficial
to the general health of an individual are also not considered eligible medical
expenses unless they are for the primary purpose of curing a particular disease
or ailment and prescribed by a doctor. 

Eligible Employees are encouraged to
use basic plan cost management features, including pre-certification, continued
stay, second surgical opinion and designation of Primary Care
Physician.  Use of these features is optional for Eligible
Employees. 

5.      Annual
Limits.  The annual limits for charges which will be paid under the
Plan are specified in the Plan.  Expenses incurred under provisions of
basic medical, dental and vision plans are not counted against the Plan's
limits.  The Plan's limits apply to the following eligible
charges: 

(a)           Medical
expenses not paid under a basic medical expense plan (deductibles, co-pay
amounts, excluded charges, etc., but not premiums to enroll dependents in the
basic plan); plus 

(b)           Dental
expenses not paid under basic dental plan (deductibles, co-pay amounts, excluded
charges etc., but not premiums to enroll dependents in the basic plan);
plus 

(c)       All
vision expenses not covered by basic vision plan, but not premiums to enroll
dependents in the basic plan. 

When an Eligible Employee or dependent
or the Eligible Employee's family exhausts annual coverage, the Eligible
Employee will be notified by the carrier. 

6.           Claims
Processing.  Eligible Employees or their Providers (Doctors,
Hospitals, etc.) should submit all basic medical, dental and vision plan and SHP
claims to the SHP carrier (UnitedHealthcare).  In no case should
claims be submitted for processing under the procedures of the basic medical,
dental and vision plans.  UnitedHealthcare will coordinate processing
for both basic and SHP claims to reduce administrative efforts for Eligible
Employees.  Retired Eligible Employees who are eligible for coverage
under the Plan and who are eligible for Medicare should file with Medicare
first. See Medicare Section below. 

To submit a claim, Eligible Employees
or their Providers should use a claim form (see Attachment 1) and one of the
blue envelopes provided in the enrollment portfolio.  Documentation of
service provided should be attached to the claim form.  Additional
forms and envelopes are available from the carrier. 

The carrier will receive completed
forms, verify participation and make payment to the Eligible Employee or to the
Provider as appropriate.  The Explanation of Benefits statement will
be forwarded to the Eligible Employee when payments are made. 

Medical
and Dental Claims.  The carrier will allocate claim charges to either
basic medical or dental plan coverage, SHP coverage or non-covered
charges.  The Eligible Employee or the Eligible Employee's Provider
will be reimbursed for all charges except those not eligible under either a
basic medical or dental plan or SHP.  The carrier will use the
separation of charges between plans to produce reports and to track against
annual limits. 

Vision
Claims.  The carrier will allocate claim charges to either basic
vision plan coverage, SHP coverage or non-covered charges.  The
Eligible Employee or the Eligible Employee's Provider will be reimbursed for all
charges except those not eligible under either a basic vision plan or
SHP.  The carrier will use the separation of charges between plans to
produce reports and to track against annual limits.  Eligible
Employees should not submit vision claims to carriers other than the SHP
carrier. 

Medicare.  Any
retired Eligible Employee eligible for coverage under the Plan or his or her
dependents any of whom are eligible for Medicare shall file claims with Medicare
first.  Expenses not reimbursed by Medicare should then be filed with
UnitedHealthcare using the Supplemental Health Plan Claim Form. 

Coordination
by Administrators.  The ECA contact will instruct claims
administrators for basic plans (vision, dental, medical) to forward all Eligible
Employee claims to the SHP carrier for processing. 

Release
of Information.  If requested by a Provider, it will be necessary for
the Eligible Employee to sign a form to authorize the carrier to obtain
additional information from a Provider.  In those cases, the carrier
will forward an information release form directly to the Eligible
Employee. 

7.           I.
D. Cards.  Each enrollment portfolio includes I.D. cards which should
be signed on the back by the Eligible Employee except for the Eligible
Employee's spouses card which should be signed by the spouse.  The
dependent's name will be shown on the dependent's card. 

Blank cards can be obtained from the
carrier and imprinted locally by the ECA 

      Group. 

Each card will contain a carrier
telephone number dedicated to the SHP.  This number is also on the
claim forms. 

8.           Prescriptions.  Participants
in the SHP should use the Mail Service Prescription Drug Program or purchase
prescriptions from a pharmacy, as appropriate.  The Eligible Employee
should attach his/her receipt for any amount not covered by the basic Plan to a
claim form, and forward to the carrier for full reimbursement.  Only
prescription medicines are eligible for
reimbursement.  Over-the-counter medicines (cold tablets, aspirin,
etc.) and hygienic supplies (contact lens solution, eye drops, etc.) are not
covered under the plan. 

9.           Billing.  The
carrier will issue insurance premium bills at the beginning of each quarter to
the following SBC entities: 

(a)      SBC ECA
Group (for corporate staff Eligible Employees) 

(b)      Each
subsidiary's Human Resources/Personal Administration Group (for subsidiary
Eligible Employees). 

Quarterly payments are due to the
carrier by the end of the first month in the quarter. 

Bills will provide sufficient detail to
show the following: 

(a)   

Amounts
      above that allocated to basic medical, dental and vision
    plans 

(b)   

SHP
      premiums 

(c)   

Other
      SHP charges/credits 

(d)   

SBC
      code 

(e)   

State
      code 

(f)      Individual
bills for each Eligible Employee as requested by the employing
subsidiary. 

10.           Reports.  The
carrier will issue quarterly reports to the SBC ECA contact.  These
will include claim-to-premium reconciliation data for use in forecasting
end-of-year true-ups and determining whether or not accruals will be
required. 

11.           Accruals.  If
claim-to premium reconciliation data indicates claims are significantly
exceeding premiums during a quarter, accruals should be considered during the
year.  At the end of the year, an accrual is generally required unless
a year-end true-up bill is not expected. 

12.           Taxes.  If
receipt of coverage/benefits under this Plan results in taxable income, an
Eligible Employee's income will be grossed-up. 

EXHIBIT
C 

Cingular
Wireless SBC Executive Transition Plan 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS SBC EXECUTIVE 

      TRANSITION
SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN (SRIP) 

1.      Section
1.  "Purpose" shall be restated as follows:  "The purpose of
the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Supplemental Retirement Income
Plan is provide eligible employees with retirement benefits to supplement
benefits payable pursuant to Cingular's qualified pension plan. The Cingular
Wireless SBC Executive Transition Supplemental Retirement Income Plan is
intended as a follow on and continuation of the SBC Supplemental Retirement
Income Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of October 28, 2001.  The
terms of the SBC Supplemental Retirement Income Plan in effect on October 28,
2001, except as herein amended, are incorporated by reference and made a part of
the Plan." 

2.           Any
reference to SBC shall be deemed to reference Cingular Wireless
LLC.  Any reference to the SBC Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained
Program ("SBCPBP") shall be deemed to reference to the Cingular Wireless Pension
Plan. 

3.           The
Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President - Human Resources of the
Employer and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with
respect to any or all of his responsibilities hereunder.  Pursuant to
Section 6.5, the Senior Vice President - Human Resources shall be authorized to
modify or terminate the plan at any time. 

4.           Eligibility
and Participation.  Participation in the plan shall be limited to
those former SBC executives who (a) previously participated in the SBC SRIP, (b)
were contributed to Cingular Wireless as part of the formation of Cingular
Wireless on or before December 31, 2001, and (c) are specifically identified on
Appendix B, hereto.  No other Cingular Wireless employees are eligible
to participate in or receive benefits from the Cingular Wireless
SRIP. 

5.           Freeze
of Benefit Accruals.  Participants will continue to
accrue  benefits under the Cingular Wireless SRIP until the earlier of
(i) December 31, 2006, (ii) the termination of their employment; and (iii) the
termination of Cingular Wireless SRIP or other cessation of benefit accruals
under Cingular Wireless SRIP. 

6.           The
term "Retirement Eligible" shall be restated as follows:  "Retirement
Eligible or Retirement Eligibility means that a Participant has attained age 55;
provided, however, if the Participant is, or has been within the one year period
immediately preceding the relevant date, an Officer with 30 or more Years of
Service and has not attained age 55, he shall be deemed to be Retirement
Eligible. Note:  Any reference in any other Cingular Wireless plan to
a person being eligible to retire with an immediate pension pursuant to the
Cingular SRIP shall be interpreted as having the same meaning as the term
Retirement Eligible." 

7.           Section
7.5 is amended to insert Georgia in the place of Texas. 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS SBC EXECUTIVE 

      TRANSITION
PENSION MAKE UP PLAN 

1.           Section
1 shall be amended as follows:  "The purpose of the Cingular Wireless
SBC Executive Transition Pension Make Up Plan is to recognize, for pension
computation purposes, certain compensation being excluded in the determination
of retirement benefits under Cingular's qualified Cingular Wireless Pension Plan
or other qualified pension plan(s) of any subsidiary of Cingular Wireless
LLC.  The Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Pension Make Up
Plan is intended as a follow on and continuation of the SBC Pension Make Up #1
Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of October 28, 2001.  The terms of
SBC Pension Make Up #1 Plan in effect on October 28, 2001, except as herein
amended, are incorporated by reference and made a part of the
Plan." 

2.           Any
reference to SBC shall be deemed to reference Cingular Wireless LLC. Any
reference to the SBC Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained Program ("SBCPBP")
shall be deemed a reference to the Cingular Wireless Pension
Plan.  Any reference to the SBC Communications Inc. Supplemental
Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP") shall be deemed to reference to the Cingular
Wireless SBC Executive Transition Supplemental Retirement Income
Plan.  Any reference to the SBC STIP shall be a reference to the
comparable Cingular Wireless plan.  Any reference to the SBC TEAM
award shall be a reference to the comparable Cingular Wireless
plan. 

3.           Eligibility
and Participation.  Participation in the plan shall be limited to
those former SBC employees who (a) were contributed to Cingular Wireless as part
of the formation of Cingular Wireless on or before December 31, 2001, (b) had an
accrued benefit under the SBC Pension Make Up #1 Plan as of December 31, 2002,
and (c) otherwise meet the eligibility requirements of Section 3 of the
Plan.  No other Cingular Wireless employees are eligible to
participate in or receive benefits from the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive
Transition Pension Make Up. 

4.           Section
4 is amended to delete any reference to the SBC Mid Career Hire
Plan.  In addition, Section 4, Paragraph 8 is deleted in its entirety
to eliminate installment payments when the lump sum payment option is elected in
the Cingular Wireless Pension Plan. 

5.           The
Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President - Human Resources of the
Employer and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with
respect to any or all of his responsibilities hereunder.  Pursuant to
Section 13, the Senior Vice President - Human Resources shall be authorized to
modify or terminate the plan at any time. 

6.           Freeze
of Benefit Accruals.  Participants will continue to accrue benefits
under the Plan until the earlier of (i) December 31, 2006, (ii) the termination
of their employment; and (iii) the termination of the Plan or other cessation of
benefit accruals under the Plan. 

7.           Section
12 is amended to insert Georgia in the place of Texas. 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS SBC EXECUTIVE 

      TRANSITION
LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

1.           Section
1.  "Purpose" shall be restated as follows:  "The purpose of
the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Life Insurance Plan is to allow
for provision of additional survivor benefits for Eligible
Employees.  The Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Life
Insurance Plan is intended as a follow on and continuation of the SBC
Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of October 28,
2001.  The terms of the SBC Life Insurance Plan in effect on October
28, 2001, except as herein amended, are incorporated by reference and made a
part of the Plan." 

2.           All
references in the Plan to SBC or SBC Communications, Inc. shall be deemed to be
a reference to Cingular Wireless LLC. 

3.           Eligibility
and Participation.  Participation in the plan shall be limited to
those former SBC executives who (a) were eligible to participate in the SBC
Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, (b) were contributed to Cingular Wireless as
part of the formation of Cingular Wireless on or before December 31, 2001, and
(c) are specifically identified on Appendix B, hereto.  No other
Cingular Wireless employees are eligible to participate in or receive benefits
from the Cingular Wireless SLIP. 

4.           The
Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President - Human Resources of the
Employer and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with
respect to any or all of his responsibilities hereunder.  Pursuant to
Section 18, the Senior Vice President - Human Resources shall be authorized to
modify or terminate the plan at any time. 

5.           Coverage
levels will be based on existing coverage levels and employee titles in effect
at the employee's contribution to Cingular Wireless. Where coverages are based
on a multiplier of eligible salary, coverages will automatically continue to
increase. 

6.           Section
4 - Alternate Death Benefit is amended as follows:  delete last
sentence of paragraph two and delete paragraph 3 in its entirety, to eliminate
reference to benefits payable under the SBC Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained
Program. 

7.           Section
15 is amended to insert Georgia in the place of Texas. 

8.           Any
references to the Board of Directors of SBC Communications, Inc. shall be deemed
to be a reference to the Board of Directors/Strategic Review Committee of
Cingular Wireless Corporation. 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS SBC EXECUTIVE TRANSITION SALARY 

      AND
INCENTIVE AWARD DEFERRAL PLAN (SIAD) 

1.           Article
1 -- "Statement of Purpose" shall be restated as follows: "The purpose of the
Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Salary and Incentive Award Deferral
Plan is provide a select group of management employees consisting of eligible
employees with a means of deferring the receipt of income.  The
Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Salary and Incentive Award Deferral
Plan is intended as a follow on and continuation of the SBC Salary and Incentive
Award Deferral Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of October 28,
2001.  The terms of the Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan in
effect on October 28, 2001, except as herein amended, are incorporated by
reference and made a part of the Plan." 

2.           Any
reference to SBC Communications Inc. shall be deemed to reference Cingular
Wireless LLC.  Any reference to SBC shall be deemed to reference
Cingular Wireless.  Any reference to the SBC Pension Benefit Plan -
Nonbargained Program ("SBCPBP") shall be deemed to reference to the Cingular
Wireless Pension Plan. 

3.           Eligibility
and Participation.  Participation in the plan shall be limited to
those former SBC executives who (a) previously participated in the SBC SIAD, (b)
were contributed to Cingular Wireless as part of the formation of Cingular
Wireless on or before December 31, 2001, and (c) are specifically identified on
Appendix B, hereto.  No other Cingular Wireless employees are eligible
to participate in or receive benefits from the Cingular Wireless
SIAD.  With respect to Article 4 -- Contributions, no additional
contributions will be allowed under the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive
Transition Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan.  Distributions
pursuant to Article 5 will be based on contributions made prior to October 28,
2001 plus accrued interest determined in accordance with Section
4.2(b). 

4.           The
reference to "Chairman" under Article 2 -- Definitions is deleted, as is any
reference to Chairman throughout the plan. 

5.           "Employer"
means Cingular Wireless LLC and any subsidiary or affiliate of Cingular Wireless
LLC that is authorized by Cingular Wireless to participate in the
Plan. 

6.           "Incentive
Award" is amended to insert "the short term or long term award payable by
Cingular" in place of the awards payable under specified SBC plans. 

7.           The
definition of "Termination Under EPR" within Article 2 -- Definitions is deleted
in its entirety. 

8.           The
Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President -- Human Resources of
the Employer and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf
with respect to any or all of his responsibilities
hereunder.  Pursuant to Section 7.2, the Senior Vice President --
Human Resources shall be authorized to modify or terminate the plan at any
time. 

9.           Section
8.10 is amended to insert Georgia in the place of Texas. 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS SBC EXECUTIVE 

      TRANSITION
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN 

1.           Section
1.1  "Plan" shall be mean:  The Cingular Wireless SBC
Executive Transition Long Term Disability Plan.  The purpose of this
plan is to provide supplemental disability coverage to the group disability
plan.  The Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Long Term
Disability Plan is intended as a follow on and continuation of the SBC Senior
Management Long Term Disability Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of October
28, 2001.  The terms of the SBC Senior Management Long Term Disability
Plan in effect on October 28, 2001, except as herein amended, are incorporated
by reference and made a part of the Plan. 

2.           Any
reference to SBC Communications Inc. shall be deemed to reference Cingular
Wireless LLC.  Any reference to SBC shall be deemed to reference
Cingular Wireless.  Any reference to the SBC Pension Benefit Plan --
Nonbargained Program ("SBCPBP") shall be deemed to reference to the Cingular
Wireless Pension Plan. 

3.           Section
1.2  Employer shall mean Cingular Wireless or any of its subsidiaries
or affiliates, which participate in the Plan. 

4.           Section
1.4  Disability Benefit Plan shall mean the Disability Program of the
Cingular Wireless Health and Welfare Benefits Plan for Nonbargained
Employees. 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS SBC EXECUTIVE 

      TRANSITION
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN 

1.           Section
1.1  "Plan" shall be mean:  The Cingular Wireless SBC
Executive Transition Long Term Disability Plan.  The purpose of this
plan is to provide supplemental disability coverage to the group disability
plan.  The Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Long Term
Disability Plan is intended as a follow on and continuation of the SBC Senior
Management Long Term Disability Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of October
28, 2001.  The terms of the SBC Senior Management Long Term Disability
Plan in effect on October 28, 2001, except as herein amended, are incorporated
by reference and made a part of the Plan. 

2.           Any
reference to SBC Communications Inc. shall be deemed to reference Cingular
Wireless LLC.  Any reference to SBC shall be deemed to reference
Cingular Wireless.  Any reference to the SBC Pension Benefit Plan -
Nonbargained Program ("SBCPBP") shall be deemed to reference to the Cingular
Wireless Pension Plan. 

3.           Section
1.2  Employer shall mean Cingular Wireless or any of its subsidiaries
or affiliates, which participate in the Plan. 

4.           Section
1.4  Disability Benefit Plan shall mean the Disability Program of the
Cingular Wireless Health and Welfare Benefits Plan for Nonbargained
Employees. 

5.           Section
1.5  Mid-Career Pension Plan shall be deleted in its
entirety.  Any reference to this plan shall be deleted. 

6.           Section
1.6  Short Term Plan shall mean short term incentive awards granted
under the comparable Cingular Wireless plan, if any. 

7.           Section
1.7  Committee shall be amended to delete the last sentence in its
entirety. 

8.           Eligibility
and Participation.  Participation in the plan shall be limited to
those former SBC executives who (a) previously participated in the SBC Senior
Management Long Term Disability Plan, (b) were contributed to Cingular Wireless
as part of the formation of Cingular Wireless on or before December 31, 2001,
and (c) are specifically identified on Appendix B, hereto.  No other
Cingular Wireless employees are eligible to participate in or receive benefits
from the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Long Term Disability
Plan. 

9.           Section
1.8(b) shall be deleted in its entirety. Any reference to this plan shall be
deleted. 

10.           Section
1.10 Annual Basic Pay shall be amended insert the Cingular Wireless Cash
Deferral Plan in the place of the Senior Management Deferred compensation Plan
and to replace the SBC Communications Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan with the
comparable Cingular Wireless plan, if any. 

11.           Section
2.1(a) shall be amended to insert "first twenty-six week period" in the place of
"first fifty-two week period." 

12.           Section
2.1(b) shall be amended to insert "first twenty-six week period" in the place of
"first fifty-two week period." 

13.           Section
2.4(b) The Board of Directors shall mean the Cingular Wireless Board of
Directors. 

14.           Section
4 Medical Expense Benefits shall be amended to insert the Medical Program of the
Cingular Wireless Health and Welfare Benefits Plan for Nonbargained Employees
and the Dental Program of the Cingular Wireless Health and Welfare Benefits Plan
for Nonbargained Employees in place of the SBC Communications Inc. Medical
Expense Plan and Dental Expense Plan, respectively. 

15.           The
Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President - Human Resources of the
Employer and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with
respect to any or all of his responsibilities hereunder.  Pursuant to
Section 6.3, the Senior Vice President - Human Resources shall be authorized to
modify or terminate the plan at any time. 

CINGULAR
WIRELESS SBC EXECUTIVE 

      TRANSITION
EXECUTIVE HEALTH PLAN 

1.           Section
1 Purpose shall be amended as follows:  "The purpose of the Cingular
Wireless SBC Executive Transition Executive Health Plan is to provide eligible
employees and their eligible dependents with supplemental medical, dental and
vision benefits.  The Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition
Executive Health Plan is intended as a follow on and continuation of the SBC
Executive Health Plan, as such Plan was in effect as of October 28,
2001.  The terms of the SBC Executive Health Plan in effect on October
28, 2001, except as herein amended, are incorporated by reference and made a
part of the Plan." 

2.           Any
reference to SBC shall be deemed to reference Cingular Wireless
LLC.  Any reference to the SBC Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained
Program ("SBCPBP") shall be deemed a reference to the Cingular Wireless Pension
Plan.  Any reference to the SBC Communications Inc. Supplemental
Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP") shall be deemed to reference to the Cingular
Wireless SBC Executive Transition Supplemental Retirement Income
Plan. 

3.           Eligibility
and Participation.  Participation in the plan shall be limited to
those former SBC executives who (a) previously participated in the SBC Executive
Health Plan, (b) were contributed to Cingular Wireless as part of the formation
of Cingular Wireless on or before December 31, 2001, and (c) are specifically
identified on Appendix B, hereto.  No other Cingular Wireless
employees are eligible to participate in or receive benefits from the Cingular
Wireless SBC Executive Transition Executive Health Plan. 

4.           Chairman
shall mean the Senior Vice President - Human Resources. 

5.           Committee
shall mean the Cingular Wireless Benefits Committee as designated by the Senior
Vice President - Human Resources. 

6.           Section
2 Termination Under EPR is deleted in its entirety. 

7.           The
Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President - Human Resources of the
Employer and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with
respect to any or all of his responsibilities hereunder.  Pursuant to
Section 8, the Senior Vice President - Human Resources shall be authorized to
modify or terminate the plan at any time. 

</EX-10.DDD>

<EX-10.EEE>
 28
 ex10eee.htm
 BELLSOUTH NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED INCOME PLAN

ex10eee.htm 

Exhibit
10-eee 

BELLSOUTH NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED
INCOME PLAN  

(As
amended and restated effective January 1, 1999) 

BELLSOUTH NONOUALIFIED
DEFERRED INCOME PLAN   

(As
amended and restated effective January 1, 1999) 

BellSouth
Corporation (  "  BellSouth")
established on the first (1st) day of September, 1985, the BellSouth
Nonqualified Deferred Income Plan ("Plan") for certain employees of BellSouth
and its subsidiaries. The Plan is hereby amended and restated effective as of
the 1st day of January, 1999, and, subject to the limitations contained in
Article 2 of the Plan, the Plan as so amended and restated shall hereafter apply
to all Deferral Agreements, including those executed before this effective date,
under the Plan. 

ARTICLE
I  

       DEFINITIONS  

      1.1         
"Base Salary" means the gross salary of the Participants, including the amount
of any before-tax basic and supplemental contributions to the BellSouth
Retirement Savings Plan or similar contributions to a comparable plan maintained
by a Participating Company and the amount of any other deferrals from gross
salary under any nonqualified deferred compensation plans which may be
maintained by a Participating Company from time to time. 

1.1(A)                    "CEO"
means the Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth. 

1.1(B)                    "Code"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

1.2            "Compensation"
means Net Gross Monthly Salary. 

1.3            "Compensation
Rate" means the cash compensation of a Participant, including (i) annual Base
Salary rate in effect on the date the Deferral Agreement is executed, and (ii)
standard lump-sum award amount(s) in effect under incentive compensation
programs on the date the Deferral Agreement is executed. For Participants
employed by Participating Companies whose compensation structures do not readily
fit within this definition, Compensation Rate means cash compensation as defined
by the CEO. 

1.4            "Deferral
Agreement" means an agreement pursuant to which deferral elections under this
Plan are made and includes a standard Deferral Agreement, substantially in the
form of Exhibit A hereto, a Deferral Agreement for deferral of certain lump-sum
payments, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, and other agreements
approved from time to time for use in connection with this Plan as described in
Article 2. 

1.5            "Employer"
means (i) BellSouth and (ii) any subsidiary of BellSouth authorized by BellSouth
to enter into Deferral Agreements pursuant to this Plan. 

1.5(A)  "ERISA"
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended. 

1.6            "Net
Gross Monthly Salary" means the amount of a Participant's Base Salary which
actually is paid to him or her in any month, net of all withholding, allotments,
and deductions other than any reduction as a result of participation in this
Plan. 

1.7            "Participant"
means an employee who is authorized by the CEO or his delegated representative
to participate in the Plan and to execute a Deferral Agreement. 

1.7(A)  "Plan
Administrator" shall mean the CEO and any individual or committee he designates
to act on his behalf with respect to any or all of his responsibilities
hereunder; provided, the CEO may designate any other person or committee to
serve as the Plan Administrator with respect to any or all of the administrative
responsibilities hereunder. 

1.8            "Plan
Year" means (i) January 1, 1986 through December 31, 1986 and (ii) each and
every calendar year thereafter through 1996. For certain Participants designated
by the CEO, "Plan Year" also means calendar year 1997 or calendar year
1998. 

1.8(A)
"Responsible Officer" means the officer elected by the Employer's Board of
Directors (or similar governing body) responsible for human resources matters
for the Employer. 

1.9            "Retirement"
means any termination by a Participant who is eligible for a pension, other than
a deferred vested pension, under the terms and conditions of the BellSouth
Personal Retirement Account Pension Plan, as amended from time to time, or
comparable plan maintained by the Participating Company employing the
Participant. 

With
respect to any Participant who, at the time eligibility for Retirement is
determined, is not eligible to participate in either the BellSouth Personal
Retirement Account Pension Plan or a comparable plan maintained by the
Participating Company employing the Participant, "Retirement" means the
termination of employment by the Participant if at such time (A) the sum of (i)
plus (ii) equals or exceeds seventy-five (75) years where (i) is the
Participant's whole years and whole months of age and (ii) is the Participant's
whole years and whole months of Net Credited Service, and (B) the Participant's
Net Credited Service is at least ten (10) years (the "Rule of 75"). For purposes
of the Rule of 75, Net Credited Service shall include the Participant's period
of service with any Subsidiary both prior to and after the time such Subsidiary
became a Subsidiary. 

Additionally,
  "  Retirement" means
(i) any termination by a Participant who is eligible for a service benefit under
terms and conditions of the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan, (ii) any termination by a Participant who has attained age 62
or older and whose Net Credited Service is ten (10) years or more at the time of
employment termination, (iii) any termination by a Participant who separates
from service under the BellSouth Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), the
BellSouth Enterprises Employee Career Transition Plan (ECTP), the BellSouth
Telecommunications, Inc. Career Transition Assistance Plan (BST CTAP), the
BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Career Transition Assistance
Plan-Professional (BST CTAP-P), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Employee
Separation Assistance Plan (ESAP), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc.
Competitive Management Restaffing Plan (CMRP), the BellSouth Telecommunications,
Inc. Leadership Repositioning Plan (LRP), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc.
Competitive Sourcing Transition Assistance Plan - Information Technology
(CSTAP-IT), the BellSouth Advertising   Publishing Corporation Voluntary
Management Separation Pay Plan (VMSPP), or a designated successor to any such
plan, or other severance arrangement approved by the CEO as applicable to this
Plan, and (iv) any termination by a Participant who separates from service under
the BellSouth Voluntary Transition Incentive Plan (VTIP) and whose Net Credit
Service is ten years or more at the time of such separation. 

1.10      "Disability"
means a condition as that term is defined in the BellSouth Long Term Disability
Plan for Salaried Employees, as amended from time to time, or comparable plan
maintained by the Participating Company employing the Participant. In the
absence of a comparable Participating Company sponsored disability plan, the
condition is based upon certification by the Board of Directors of the
Participating Company employing the Participant that the Participant is
disabled. 

1.11      "Participating
Company" means (i) BellSouth and (ii) any corporate Subsidiary at least eighty
percent (80%)of the capital stock of which is owned by BellSouth or by one or
more eighty percent (80%) owned Subsidiaries, which has been designated by
BellSouth for participation in this Plan. 

1.12      "Net
Credited Service" shall have the same meaning as is given such term in the
BellSouth Personal Retirement Account Pension Plan. 

1.13      "Subsidiary"
means any corporation other than BellSouth which is a member of the same
controlled group of corporations, within the meaning of Code Section 414(b), as
BellSouth and any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) which is under
common control with BellSouth, within the meaning of Code Section
414(c). 

ARTICLE
2  

       TERM;
AMENDMENT  

      This Plan
shall be effective until terminated by the CEO. This Plan originally provided
for 1986 through 1998 with Plan specifications and interest rates being
established by the CEO for each separate Plan Year. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no deferrals will be permitted under the Plan except with respect to
the Plan Years described in Section 1.8 and then only to the extent authorized
by the CEO. 

This Plan
may be amended, renewed, or restated by the CEO. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
no contractual right created by and under any Deferral Agreement on the date of
termination or amendment shall be abrogated by the termination or amendment of
this Plan unless the Participant who executed such Deferral Agreement consents.
Participants have no other right or interest in the continuance of this Plan in
any form. 

ARTICLE
3  

ADMINISTRATION;
INTERPRETATION  

      3.1             Claims
Procedure . 

(a)       Initial Claim . Claims
for benefits under the Plan may be filed with the Plan Administrator on forms or
in such other written documents, as the Plan Administrator may prescribe. The
Plan Administrator shall furnish to the claimant written notice of the
disposition of a claim within 90 days after the application therefor is filed.
In the event the claim is denied, the notice of the disposition of the claim
shall provide the specific reasons for the denial, citations of the pertinent
provisions of the Plan, and, where appropriate, an explanation as to how the
claimant can perfect the claim and/or submit the claim for review. 

(b)       Appeal . Any
Participant or Beneficiary who has been denied a benefit shall be entitled, upon
request to the Plan Administrator, to appeal the denial of his claim. The
claimant (or his duly authorized representative) may review pertinent documents
related to the Plan and in the Plan Administrator's possession in order to
prepare the appeal. The request for review, together with written statement of
the claimant's position, must be filed with the Plan Administrator no later than
60 days after receipt of the written notification of denial of a claim provided
for in Section 3.1(a). The Plan Administrator's decision shall be made within 60
days following the filing of the request for review. If unfavorable, the notice
of the decision shall explain the reasons for denial and indicate the provisions
of the Plan or other documents used to arrive at the decision. 

3.2              Interpretation . The
Plan Administrator shall have the exclusive responsibility and complete
discretionary authority to control the operation and administration of the Plan,
with all powers necessary to properly carry out such responsibility, including
without limitation the full and exclusive power (i) to interpret the terms of
this Plan and any Deferral Agreement, including the power to construe ambiguous
or uncertain terms (ii) to establish reasonable procedures with which
Participants must comply to exercise any right established under the Plan or any
Deferral Agreement, (iii) to determine status, coverage, eligibility for and the
amount of benefits, and all questions arising in connection therewith, and (iv)
to resolve all questions that arise in the operation and administration of this
Plan. The rights and duties of Participants and other persons and entities are
subject to, and governed by, such acts of administration, interpretations,
procedures, and delegations. All actions or determinations of the Plan
Administrator or its delegates under this Article 3 shall be final, conclusive
and binding on all persons. 

ARTICLE
4  

       DEFERRAL
AGREEMENT  

4.1              Election to Defer . As
hereinafter provided and subject to acceptance by an Employer, (a) a Participant
may elect to reduce the amount of Compensation which will be paid to him or her
during any Plan Year by executing and delivering to his or her Employer in a
timely fashion a standard Deferral Agreement, substantially in the form of
Exhibit A hereto, and (b) a Participant may elect to reduce the amount of a
lump-sum payment to which he or she may become entitled prior to 1997 in
connection with separation under the BellSouth Career Transition Assistance Plan
(CTAP), the BellSouth Enterprises Employee Career Transition Plan (ECTP), the
BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Career Transition Assistance Plan (BST CTAP),
the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Career Transition Assistance Plan
Professional (BST CTAP-P), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Employee
Separation Assistance Plan (ESAP), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc.
Competitive Management Restaffing Plan (CMRP), the BellSouth Telecommunications,
Inc. Leadership Repositioning Plan (LRP), the BellSouth Advertising  
Publishing Corporation Voluntary Management Separation Pay Plan (VMSPP), the
BellSouth Voluntary Transition Incentive Plan (VTIP) or a designated successor
to any such plan, or other severance arrangement approved by the CEO as
applicable to this Plan, by executing and delivering to his or her Employer in a
timely fashion a Deferral Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit B
hereto; provided that subsection (b) of this Section 4.1 shall apply to a
Participant separating under the BellSouth Voluntary Transition Incentive Plan
(VTIP) only if the Participant's Net Credited Service is ten (10) years or more
at the time of such separation. 

4.2             Creation of Contractual
Obligation . An Employer which accepts a properly executed and timely
delivered Deferral Agreement agrees to pay to the Participant or his or her
Designated Beneficiary, as defined in Section 6.1, the benefits described in
Article 5, which shall be calculated based upon (i) the amount deferred by each
Participant, (ii) interest rate established for each Plan Year by the CEO or his
delegate and applied to that amount annually, (iii) the time which elapses
between the Plan Year of deferral and the date of benefit payments, and (iv)
other factors established in this Plan and by the CEO or his
delegate. 

An
Employer's senior executive officer or Responsible Officer is authorized to
accept and approve a properly executed Deferral Agreement on behalf of that
Employer under Section 4.2. 

4.3              Timing of Election . A
Participant may execute and deliver to his or her Employer a standard Deferral
Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, on or before November
30 of any calendar year to reduce the Participant's Compensation only for the
next subsequent Plan Year. In addition, a Participant may execute and deliver to
his or her Employer a Deferral Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit B
hereto, in connection with a lump-sum payment described in Section 4.1(b) of
this Plan within the time period prescribed by his or her Employer, but in no
event later than the day preceding the day on which individuals are selected for
separation under such program by the Employer. 

Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Plan or any Deferral Agreement, no Deferral
Agreement shall be effective to defer Compensation (or other amounts) which is
earned by any Participant on or before the date upon which the Deferral
Agreement is properly executed and timely delivered to the Participant's
Employer. 

4.4           Amount of Deferral .
(a) A Participant may elect to defer during any Plan Year a dollar amount which
is less than or equal to a specified percent of his or her Compensation Rate
applicable to the Plan Year rounded to the next highest one thousand dollars.
The CEO shall establish the specified percent of the Compensation Rate
applicable to each Plan Year. Notwithstanding any provision of a Deferral
Agreement or this Plan to the contrary, the Deferral Agreement of a Participant,
with regard to a deferral described in this paragraph (a) shall be modified
automatically if necessary such that all actual reductions pursuant to his or
her Deferral Agreement are made from his or her Net Gross Monthly
Salary. 

(b)          A
Participant may elect to defer a portion of a lump-sum payment to which he or
she may become entitled as described in Section 4.1(b) in an amount not to
exceed (i) a dollar amount which is less than or equal to the maximum deferral,
if any, which such Participant could elect under paragraph (a) of this Section
4.4 at the time of election, and (ii) the dollar amount by which any election of
deferrals under paragraph (a) of this Section 4.4 for the Plan Year in which the
Participant terminates employment have not been satisfied at the time of
termination of employment, except as may be otherwise approved by the
CEO. 

ARTICLE
5  

PAYMENT OF
BENEFITS  

5.1            Retirement Benefit .
(a) If a Participant terminates employment with his or her Employer and is not
immediately reemployed by another Employer and such termination constitutes a
Retirement, then the Employer shall pay to the Participant the annual Retirement
benefit stated in his or her Deferral Agreements on those dates specified in
each Deferral Agreement. The Employer shall also make any Retirement benefit
payment to a Participant who has remained employed with the Employer (or with
another Employer) through the date specified for such payment in his or her
Deferral Agreement. Except as hereinafter provided, the Retirement benefit
payment(s) which will be stated in a Participant's Deferral Agreement shall be a
number of payments equal to the lesser of (i) fifteen (15) and (ii) the
remainder of eighty (80) minus the age at which Retirement benefit payments
commence pursuant to this Section. The Retirement benefit shall be paid as soon
as administratively practicable after the first (1st) day of January following
the calendar year in which the Participant attains age sixty-five (65). Any such
Deferral Agreement executed by a Participant which defers amounts which would
otherwise be payable to the Participant in or after the Plan Year in which he or
she attains age sixty-five (65), however, shall provide that the first
Retirement benefit payable shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable
after the first (1st) day of January following the later of (i) the fifth (5th)
anniversary of the date upon which the Deferral Agreement is accepted by the
Employer or (ii) his or her Retirement, and that the number of Retirement
benefit payments shall equal the remainder of (i) eighty (80) minus (ii) the age
at which Retirement benefit payments commence pursuant to this
Section. 

(b)      Notwithstanding
the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 5.1, to the extent authorized in
terms and conditions approved for a Plan Year by the CEO pursuant to Article 2
of this Plan, the Employer shall pay to the Participant the annual Retirement
benefit specified in his or her Deferral Agreements on those dates specified in
each Deferral Agreement which may differ from those specified in Section
5.1(a). 

(c)      If a
Participant is, on the date of termination, or becomes thereafter a proprietor,
officer, partner, or employee of, or otherwise is or becomes affiliated with (i)
any business that is in competition with any Employer or (ii) any government
agency having regulatory jurisdiction over the business activities of any
Employer, then, upon that date, no further benefit payments shall be made to the
Participant, or any other person with respect to the Participant's participation
in this Plan, under any provision or Section of this Plan, except that, the
Participant shall be paid in lump-sum as soon as administratively practicable
after the first (1st) day of January following that date an amount equal to (i)
the amount deferred pursuant to each of his or her Deferral Agreements, (ii)
plus interest on each such amount (adjusted to take into account all payments
described in clause (iii) below) credited separately at a rate equal to the rate
paid on ten (10) year United States Treasury obligations on each date for which
interest is credited, compounded quarterly, for each Plan Year between the Plan
Year to which the Deferral Agreement applies and the Plan Year in which the act
occurs or status is first attained, inclusive, (iii) minus the amount of all
Interim Distributions and any other payments hereunder. If the above calculation
results in a negative amount, such amount shall not be collected from, or
enforced against the Participant as a claim by his or her Employer. 

5.2              Interim
Distributions . A Participant shall be paid the benefits stated in
Paragraph 3 of his or her standard Deferral Agreements on those dates stated in
that paragraph of each such Deferral Agreement (herein referred to as "Interim
Distributions"). However, no Interim Distribution shall be stated in a Deferral
Agreement or paid to any Participant as a result of the Deferral Agreement if
the Participant is age fifty-five (55) or older on any day during the Plan Year
to which the Deferral Agreement applies. Except as may be otherwise specified by
the CEO, no Interim Distribution shall be paid to a Participant on or after the
date upon which the Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary receives
any benefit or payment under any other Section of this Plan or any other
paragraph of his or her Deferral Agreement. No Interim Distribution shall be
paid in connection with any Deferral Agreement which does not specifically
provide for such benefits. 

5.3              Death Benefit . If a
Participant dies on or before the date upon which he or she is eligible for
Retirement, then his or her Designated Beneficiary, as defined in Section 6.1,
shall be paid in a lump-sum as soon as administratively practicable after the
first day of January following his or her date of death an amount equal to: (i)
the amount deferred pursuant to each of his or her Deferral Agreements, (ii)
plus interest on each such amount (adjusted to take into account all payments
described in clause (iii) below) credited separately at the rate approved for
and applicable to his or her participation in each Plan Year for which he or she
executed accepted Deferral Agreements, such rates to be compounded quarterly for
each Plan Year between the Plan Year to which the Deferral Agreement applies and
the Plan Year in which his or her death occurs, inclusive, (iii) minus the
amount of all Interim Distributions, if any, received by the Participant or to
which the Participant is entitled on or before the date of his or her death. If
the above calculation results in a negative amount, such amount shall not be
collected from, or enforced against the Participant as a claim by his or her
Employer. 

If a
Participant dies on or after the date upon which he or she is eligible for
Retirement (as defined in Section 1.9), whether or not he or she has in fact
terminated employment, prior to commencing receipt of benefits, or having
received all benefits, as the case may be, payable in accordance with the duly
authorized Deferral Agreement under this Plan, except as provided under Section
5.4, then his or her Designated Beneficiary, as defined in Section 6.1, shall
receive all benefits, or continue to receive the remaining benefits, as the case
may be, in accordance with that Deferral Agreement. 

If the
Participant's Designated Beneficiary receives or is entitled to receive a
benefit hereunder, then no person or persons shall receive or be entitled to
receive any benefit or payment under any other Section or this Plan or under any
Deferral Agreement, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or any
Deferral Agreement. 

5.4          Pre-Retirement Disability
Benefit . If a Participant suffers a Disability or becomes Disabled (as
defined in Section 1.10) prior to the date upon which he or she receives or is
entitled to receive a benefit under Section 5.1 or Section 5.3, then he or she
shall be paid by the Employer in a lump-sum as soon as administratively
practicable after the first (1st) day of January following the Plan Year in
which the Disability occurs an amount equal to: (i) the amount deferred pursuant
to each of his or her Deferral Agreements, (ii) plus interest on each such
amount (adjusted to take into account all payments described in clause (iii)
below) credited separately at the rate approved for and applicable to his or her
participation in each Plan Year for which he or she executed accepted Deferral
Agreements, such rates to be compounded annually for each Plan Year between the
Plan Year to which the Deferral Agreement applies and the Plan Year in which his
or her Disability occurs, inclusive, (iii) minus the amount of all Interim
Distributions, if any, received by the Participant or to which the Participant
is entitled on or before the date of onset of Disability. If the above
calculation results in a negative amount, such amount shall not be collected
from, or enforced against the Participant as a claim by his or her Employer. If
the Participant receives or is entitled to receive a benefit hereunder, then no
person or persons shall receive or be entitled to receive any benefit or payment
under any other section of this Plan or under any Deferral Agreement,
notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan or any Deferral
Agreement. 

5.5             Termination of Employment
Prior to Retirement or  Disability . If a
Participant terminates employment with his or her Employer, and is not
immediately reemployed by another Employer, prior to death, Disability or
Retirement, then a benefit amount shall be paid to the Participant, either in a
lump-sum or in five (5) annual installments, at the election of the CEO, payable
as soon as administratively practicable after the first (1st) day of January
following his or her date of termination (and anniversaries thereof in case of
installments), which amount equals (i) the amount deferred pursuant to each of
his or her Deferral Agreements, (ii) plus interest on each such amount (adjusted
to take into account all payments described in clause (iii) below) credited
separately at a rate equal to the rate on ten (10) year United States Treasury
obligations on each date for which interest is to be credited, compounded
quarterly, for each Plan Year between the Plan Year to which the Deferral
Agreement applies and the Plan Year in which the termination occurs, inclusive,
(iii) minus the amount of all Interim Distributions, if any, received by the
Participant or to which the Participant is entitled on or before the date of his
or her termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to each
Participant described in the preceding sentence who terminates employment under
a severance plan or arrangement approved by the Employer's Responsible Officer
(or the Plan Administrator) for purposes of this Section 5.5, the rate of
interest described in clause (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be the rate
approved for and applicable to his or her participation in each Plan Year for
which he or she executed accepted Deferral Agreements, and such interest shall
be compounded annually. If the above calculation results in a negative amount,
such amount shall not be collected from, or enforced against the Participant as
a claim by his or her Employer. If the Participant receives or is entitled to
receive a benefit hereunder, then no person or persons shall then or thereafter
receive any benefit or payment under any other Section of this Plan or any
Deferral Agreement, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or any
Deferral Agreement. 

5.6              Certain Rotational
Assignments . In the event that a Participant is transferred to Bellcore
or to any other subsidiary of BellSouth that is not a Participating Company, and
under circumstances where it is expected that such Participant will return to
employment with BellSouth or another Employer, then (1) such transfer will not
be considered a termination of employment under Section 5.5, (2) such
Participant's Compensation deferrals shall cease as of the date of such transfer
and (3) his Deferral Agreement in effect for the year of transfer shall
automatically be amended by his Employer to reduce his Retirement benefits and
Interim Distributions to equal the percentage of such payments equal to the
percentage that his actual Compensation deferrals made for the year of transfer
are of his elected Compensation deferrals for such year. Such a Participant
shall be deemed to have terminated employment under Section 5.5 if, and as of
the date, that he terminates employment with Bellcore or such other applicable
company and fails to return to employment with BellSouth or other Employer, or
he otherwise fails to meet the terms of his rotational assignment. 

ARTICLE
6  

       MISCELLANEOUS  

6.1              Beneficiary
Designation . If a Participant dies and, on the date of his or her death,
any benefit or benefits remain to be paid to the Participant under the terms and
conditions of this Plan, the remaining benefit or benefits shall be paid to that
person or persons designated by the Participant ("Designated Beneficiary") on
the form provided from time to time to the Participant by his or her Employer in
accordance with the Deferral Agreement. If the Designated Beneficiary dies prior
to completion of all payments under the Deferral Agreement, the estate of the
Designated Beneficiary shall be paid by the Employer in a lump-sum as soon as
administratively practicable after the first (1st) day of January following the
year in which the Designated Beneficiary died. The amount of the lump-sum will
be equal to (i) the amount deferred pursuant to each of the Participant's
Deferral Agreements, (ii) plus interest on each such amount (adjusted to take
into account all payments described in clauses (iii) and (iv) below) credited
separately at the rate approved for and applicable to the Participant's
participation in each Plan Year from which he or she executed accepted Deferral
Agreements, such rates to be terminated employment under Section 5.5 if, and as
of the date, that he terminates employment with Bellcore or such other
compounded quarterly for each Plan Year between the Plan Year to which the
Deferral Agreement applies and the Plan Year in which the Designated
Beneficiary's death occurs, inclusive, (iii) minus the amount of all Interim
Distributions, if any received by the Participant or Designated Beneficiary,
(iv) minus the Retirement benefits paid to the Participant or Designated
Beneficiary pursuant to the Deferral Agreement(s). If the above calculation
results in a negative amount, such amount shall not be collected from, or
enforced against the estate of the Designated Beneficiary. If no Designated
Beneficiary has been chosen by the Participant or if the Designated Beneficiary
is not living on the date of the Participant's death, the estate of the
Participant shall be paid by the Employer in a lump-sum as soon as
administratively practicable after the first (1st) day of January following the
year in which the Participant died. The amount of the lump-sum shall be
determined in the manner described previously in this Section 6.1. 

6.2             Obligations of Employers Not
the Obligations of BellSouth . The duties and obligations of each Employer
hereunder are several but not joint, each Employer is only liable to its own
employees who are Participants hereunder, and BellSouth is not liable for the
actions, omissions, duties or obligations of any other Employer
hereunder. 

6.3              Recalculation Events;
Treatment of this Plan under Applicable Federal Income Tax Laws . The
adoption and maintenance of the Plan is strictly conditioned upon (i) the
applicability of Code Section 451(a) to the Participant's recognition of gross
income as a result of his or her participation, (ii) the fact that Participants
will not recognize gross income as a result of participation in this Plan until
and to the extent that benefits are received, (iii) the applicability of Code
Section 404(a)(5) to the deductibility of the amounts paid to Participants
hereunder, (iv) the fact that an Employer will not receive a deduction for
amounts credited to any accounting reserve created as a result of this Plan
until and only to the extent that benefits are paid, and (v) the inapplicability
of Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA to this Plan by reason of the
exemptions set forth in ERISA Sections 201(a), 301(a) and 401(a) and Part 1 of
ERISA by reason of the exemption set forth in Section 2520.104-23 of applicable
United States Department of Labor regulations. If the Internal Revenue Service,
the Department of Labor or any court determines or finds as a fact or legal
conclusion that any of the above conditions is untrue and issues or intends to
issue an assessment, determination, opinion or report stating such, or if the
opinion of the legal counsel of BellSouth based upon legal authorities then
existing is that any of the above assumptions is incorrect, then, if the CEO so
elects within one year of such finding, determination, or opinion, a
Recalculation Event shall be deemed to have occurred. 

If a
Recalculation Event occurs under this Section 6.3, Section 6.4, or any other
Section of this Plan, then each Participant who has not attained the age of
fifty-five (55) years on the date on which the CEO takes official action to
elect the occurrence of a Recalculation Event shall thereafter be paid benefits
in accordance with the election made irrevocably in connection therewith in the
Deferral Agreement. For each such Participant the amount of Retirement benefit
stated in the Deferral Agreement shall be recalculated and restated using a rate
of interest equal to the rate of interest on ten (10) year United States
Treasury obligations on each date upon which interest should have been or will
be calculated, compounded quarterly, instead of the interest rate assumed in
originally calculating the benefit, as referenced in Section 4.2. 

Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Plan or a Deferral Agreement, the
benefits payable with respect to any Participant who shall have either (i)
attained the age of fifty-five (55) years or (ii) died, on or prior to the date
on which the CEO takes official action to elect the occurrence of a
Recalculation Event under either Sections 6.3 or 6.4 of this Plan, shall not be
recalculated and restated in the manner described in such Sections or in any
other way affected by such action. If such Participant or Designated Beneficiary
receives or is entitled to receive a benefit as result of the occurrence of a
Recalculation Event, then no person or persons shall receive or be entitled to
receive any benefit or payment under any other Section of this Plan or under any
Deferral Agreement, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or the
Deferral Agreement. 

6.4               Changes in the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954 . The adoption and maintenance of this Plan also is
strictly conditioned upon the existence and continuation of the percentage tax
rates for corporations stated in Section 11(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954 ,  as amended
through August 13,1981 but not thereafter (the "1954 Code"). In particular, the
adoption and maintenance of this Plan is strictly conditioned upon the rate of
tax stated in Section 1 l (b)(5) of the 1954 Code, that is, "46 percent of so
much of the taxable income as exceeds $100,000." If (1) 1954 Code Section 11(b)
is deleted or amended or a surtax or other addition to tax is imposed and, as a
result thereof, the rate of federal income tax imposed on taxable income of
corporations in excess of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) is reduced
below such rate in effect immediately before reduction and is less than forty
percent (40%), (2) a tax is imposed by the federal government on income, sales,
consumption, or the value of goods and services which is not currently contained
in the Code, or (3) the Code is amended or restated so extensively that in the
opinion of the legal counsel of BellSouth the tax treatment of this Plan to the
Employer has materially changed to the detriment of the Employer, then, if the
CEO so elects within one year after the enactment of the legislation causing
such event, a Recalculation Event shall be deemed to have occurred and a benefit
will be payable only as described in Section 6.3. 

6.5        Governing Law . This
Plan and the Deferral Agreements shall be construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of Georgia to the extent such laws are not preempted by
ERISA. 

6.6             Successors, Mergers,
Consolidations . The terms and conditions of this Plan and each Deferral
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and bind BellSouth, the other Employers,
the Participants, their successors, assigns, and personal representatives. If
substantially all of the assets of any Employer are acquired by another
corporation or entity or if an Employer is merged into, or consolidated with,
another corporation or entity, then the obligations created hereunder and as a
result of the Employer's acceptance of Deferral Agreements shall be obligations
of the successor corporations or entity. 

6.7             Discharge of Employer's
Obligation . The payment by the Employer of the benefits due under each
and every Deferral Agreement to the Participant or to the person or persons
specified in Section 6.1 discharges the Employer's obligations hereunder, and
the Participant has no further rights under this Plan or the Deferral Agreements
upon receipt by the appropriate person of all benefits. In addition, (i) if any
payment is made to a Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary with
respect to benefits described in this Plan from any source arranged by the
Employer including, without limitation, any fund, trust, insurance arrangement,
bond, security device, or any similar arrangement, such payment shall be deemed
to be in full and complete satisfaction of the obligation of the Employer under
this Plan and the Deferral Agreements to the extent of such payment as if such
payment had been made directly by the Employer; and (ii) if any payment from a
source described in clause (i) above shall be made, in whole or in part, prior
to the time payment would be made under the terms of this Plan and the Deferral
Agreement, such payment shall be deemed to satisfy the Employer's obligation to
pay Plan benefits beginning with the benefit which would next become payable
under the Plan and the Deferral Agreement and continuing in the order in which
benefits are so payable, until the payment from such other source is fully
recovered. In determining the benefits satisfied by a payment described in
clause (ii), Plan benefits, as they become payable, shall be discounted to their
value as of the date such actual payment was made using an interest rate equal
to the valuation interest rate for deferred annuities as last published by the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation prior to the date of such actual payment.
If the benefits which actually become payable under this Plan, after applying
the discount described in the preceding sentence, are less than the amount of
the payment(s) described in clause (ii), any such shortfall shall not be
collected from or enforced against the Participant as a claim by the
Employer. 

6.8              Social Security and Income
Tax Withholding . Each Participant agrees as a condition of participation
hereunder that his or her Employer may withhold federal, state, and local income
taxes and Social Security taxes from any distribution or benefit paid
hereunder. 

6.9        Notice; Delivery of Deferral
Agreement . Any notice required to be delivered hereunder and any Deferral
Agreement is properly delivered to the Employer when personally delivered to, or
actually received from the United States mail, postage prepaid, by Executive
Compensation and Benefits Group, Room 13J08, BellSouth Corporation, 1155
Peachtree St., N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30309-3610. 

6.10      Nature of Obligations
Created Hereunder . The Participants agree as a condition of participation
hereunder that: 

(a)             Participants
have the status of general, unsecured creditors of the Employer and the Plan and
the Deferral Agreements constitute the mere promise by the Employer to make
benefit payments in the future; 

(b)             nothing
contained in this Plan or any Deferral Agreement shall create or be construed to
create a trust of any kind between BellSouth, any Employer, and any
Participant; 

(c)      benefits
payable, and rights to benefits under, this Plan and Deferral Agreements may not
be anticipated, sold, assigned (either at law or in equity), transferred,
pledged, encumbered or subject to attachment, garnishment, levy, execution or
other legal or equitable process. 

The Plan
is intended to be unfunded for purposes of ERISA and the Code. 

6.11      No Modification of
Employment Agreement . Neither this Plan nor any Deferral Agreement
constitutes a modification of any employment agreement which may exist between
the Participant and the Participating Company employing the Participant, and no
right to continued employment is created by this Plan or the Deferral
Agreement. 

6.12      Liability of Employers for
Individual Participants Employed by More than One Employer; Applicability of
Deferral Agreement Filed with One Employer to Subsequent Employers . Any
Deferral Agreement which is timely executed and delivered to an Employer shall
be effective to defer Compensation earned by the Participant from that Employer
or any other Employer during the period in which the Deferral Agreement is
effective. The execution and delivery of a Deferral Agreement by a Participant
constitutes an election by the Participant to defer Compensation earned from any
Employer under the terms of this Plan. A Participant who timely executes and
delivers a Deferral Agreement to one Employer and who subsequently transfers to
another Employer or otherwise terminates employment and becomes employed by
another Employer shall have the Compensation which is paid to him or her by both
Employers reduced under the terms of the Deferral Agreement and this Plan as if
the transfer or termination and reemployment had not occurred. The Employer
which accepts an executed, timely delivered Deferral Agreement is liable to the
Participant for all benefits which may be payable under, and as a result of,
that Deferral Agreement notwithstanding the transfer of a Participant to or from
another Employer, or the termination and reemployment of a Participant by
another Employer. If a Participant timely executes and delivers Deferral
Agreements to more than one Employer, each Employer is singly and not jointly
liable for the Deferral Agreement or Deferral Agreements which it accepted. Any
provision of this Plan which refers to a benefit or payment which is payable as
a result of more than one (1) Deferral Agreement shall be construed to apply
only to the Deferral Agreements delivered by that Participant and accepted by
each separate Employer of that Participant, and not to all Deferral Agreements
executed and timely delivered by one Participant or all Participants to all
Employers, each Deferral Agreement which incorporates the terms of this
constituting a separate contractual obligation of a single
Employer. 

Exhibit
A  

DEFERRAL
AGREEMENT  

FOR THE BELLSOUTH
NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED INCOME PLAN  

1.       Amount of Deferral .
I,                                                             ,
hereby agree to participate in the BellSouth Nonqualified Deferred Income Plan
("Plan"). I have read the Plan in its entirety and agree to its terms and
conditions, which are incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to the terms of
the Plan, I elect to defer from my compensation to be paid to me in Plan Year
______ the sum of ______________ Dollars. I understand that my Compensation
which ordinarily would be paid to me in that Plan Year will be reduced by the
amount of my deferral, and that such reduction will be made only from my gross
monthly salary, not from any bonus or incentive award which may be payable to
me. 

2.       Retirement Benefits .
In consideration for my deferral, my Employer shall pay to me the following
benefits on the dates specified, if I am entitled to these benefits under the
terms and conditions of the Plan: 

3.       Interim
Distributions . In consideration for my deferral, my Employer shall pay to
me the following benefits on the dates specified, if I am entitled to these
benefits under the terms and conditions of the Plan: 

4.       Recalculation Event .
If a Recalculation Event applicable to me occurs, my Employer shall pay to me
benefits in an amount determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of
paragraph 6.3 of the Plan paid in accordance with the terms elected below. The
undistributed balance of the recalculated amount will continue to accumulate at
the reduced rate specified in paragraph 6.3 of the Plan. 

- 

Recalculated
      amount paid in a LUMP-SUM in the year following the Recalculation
      Event. 

- 

Recalculated
      amount paid in FOUR ANNUAL PAYMENTS beginning in the year following the
      Recalculation Event. 

- 

Recalculated
      amount paid in SAME NUMBER of payments beginning  on the same
      date as specified in paragraph 2 of this
  Agreement. 

(All
amounts are to be paid as on as administratively practicable after the first of
the specified year.) 

5.       Election Irrevocable .
This election is  irrevocable  after
November 30 immediately preceding the Plan Year to which this Agreement
pertains. 

6.       Primacy of Plan . I
recognize that I am entitled to benefits hereunder and that this Agreement is
subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. 

Participant:                                                   Accepted
by Employer: 

Name
(Print)                                                Name
of Employer 

By: 

Signature                                                      Its: 

Title 

Date                                                               Date 

Exhibit
B  

DEFERRAL
AGREEMENT  

       FOR THE BELLSOUTH
NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED INCOME PLAN  

      (For
Deferral of Lump-Sum Payments) 

THIS
AGREEMENT is made this ____ day of __________, 19__, by and 

      between                                                 (the
"Company")
and                                                                       (the
  "  Employee"); 

WITNESSETH:  

WHEREAS,
the Employee may separate from service with the Company under the terms of an
eligible separation plan or arrangement sponsored by the Company (hereinafter,
the "Separation Plan"); and 

WHEREAS,
the BellSouth Nonqualified Deferred Income Plan (the "Plan") permits the
Employee to elect irrevocably to defer a portion of the lump-sum separation
allowance to which he may become entitled thereunder, and the Employee desires
to make such deferral; 

NOW,
      THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as
follows: 

1.  

PLAN PROVISIONS
CONTROL  

The Plan,
including all terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations contained therein,
is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement for all
purposes. The terms and conditions applicable to the plan year of the Plan in
which the Employee separates from service shall apply to deferrals hereunder. In
interpreting the Plan for purposes of this Agreement, the lump-sum separation
allowance payable under the Separation Plan shall not be included in the
Employee's   "  Compensation Rate"
as that term is used in the Plan. 

2.     

CONDITIONAL
DEFERRAL  

The
deferral election contained herein shall be irrevocable by the Employee upon its
submission to the Company but shall be expressly conditioned upon the Employee's
separation from service under the Separation Plan. If the Employee does not
separate from service under the Separation Plan, this Agreement shall be null
and void. Neither the Company's offering of this deferral opportunity to the
Employee, the Company's acceptance of the Employee's deferral election contained
in this Agreement, nor any other provision hereof shall in any way be construed
as conferring upon the Employee any right or entitlement to any payment under
the Separation Plan. 

3.     

DEFERRAL
ELECTION(S)  

(a)      Subject
to the Plan's limitations, the Employee hereby irrevocably elects to defer from
the lump-sum separation allowance payable under the Separation Plan
___________________________ Dollars ($_________).* 

*NOTE: 

Amount
      may not exceed __% of the sum of your current annual base salary and
      lump-sum awards received in the previous twelve (12)
    months. 

YES   __                          NO   __ 

(b)      The
Employee hereby irrevocably elects to defer from the lump-sum separation
allowance payable under the Separation Plan the dollar amount by which any
election of deferrals from base salary under the Plan for the plan year of the
Plan in which the Employee separates from service has not been satisfied by the
time the Employee separates. 

YES                      NO  

Such
amounts shall be subject to the terms of the original Deferral Agreement to
which they relate. 

I
understand that the lump-sum separation allowance payable under the Separation
Plan which would otherwise have been paid to me will be reduced by the amount of
my deferral(s). 

4.     

RETIREMENT
BENEFITS  

In
consideration of my deferral described in section 3(a) above, if any, the
Company shall pay to me the following benefits on the dates specified, if I am
entitled to these benefits under the terms and conditions of the
Plan: 

Any
distributions attributable to deferral(s) under Schedule B of the Plan shall be
made beginning on     in     annual
payments. 

5.     

INTERIM
DISTRIBUTIONS  

In
consideration for my deferral described in section 3(a) above, if any, the
Company shall pay to me the following benefits on the dates specified, if I am
entitled to these benefits under the terms and conditions of the
Plan: 

6.

RECALCULATION
EVENT  

If a
Recalculation Event occurs, the Company shall pay to me benefits in an amount
determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of paragraph 6.3 of the
Plan paid in accordance with the terms elected below. The undistributed balance
of the recalculated amount will continue to accumulate at the reduced rate
specified in paragraph 6.3 of the Plan. 

- 

Recalculated
      amount paid in a lump-sum as soon as administratively practicable after
      the first day of the year following the date of the Recalculation
      Event. 

- 

Recalculated
      amount paid in four annual payments beginning as soon as administratively
      practicable after the first day of the year following the date of the
      Recalculation Event. 

- 

Recalculated
      amount paid in same number of payments beginning on the same date as
      specified in paragraph 4 of this
Agreement. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its
corporate name by a duly authorized officer, and the Employee has hereunto set
his hand, as of the date set forth above. 

EMPLOYEE:                                                         THE
COMPANY: 

Name
(Print)                                                         Name
of Company 

By:

Signature                                                                                   Signature 

Title 

</EX-10.EEE>

<EX-10.EEE_I>
 29
 ex10eeei.htm
 FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE BELLSOUTH NONQUALIFIED DEFERRAL INCOME PLAN

ex10eeei.htm 

Exhibit
10-eee(i) 

FIRST AMENDMENT  

TO THE  

BELLSOUTH NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED
INCOME PLAN  

THIS
FIRST AMENDMENT to the BellSouth Nonqualified Deferred Income Plan (the "Plan'),
is made effective as of January 1, 2006; 

WITNESSETH: 

WHEREAS,
BellSouth Corporation established the Plan on September 1, 1985; 

WHEREAS,
the Plan was most recently amended and restated effective as of January 1, 1999;
and 

WHEREAS,
Article 2 of the Plan provides that the Plan may be amended by the Chief
Executive Officer of BellSouth Corporation; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as follows: 

1.

Article 5
of the Plan is amended by adding, following Section 5.5, a new Section 5.5A
which shall read as follows: 

5.5A    Termination of Employment
Under TPPS: Prior to Retirement or Disability . If a Participant
terminates employment with his or her Employer under the BellSouth Corporation
Transition Payment Plan for Senior Management: Voluntary ("TPPS:V") during
calendar year 2006, prior to death, Disability or Retirement, the Participant
shall be permitted to make a new payment election with respect to the
Participant's Plan benefits to have his or her benefits paid as if the
Participant's termination of employment constituted a Retirement for all
purposes of the Plan. Each Participant who elects to participate in TPPS:V, and
who terminates employment under the provisions of TPPS:V and satisfies all
requirements of TPPS:V, will be deemed to have made this new payment election
with respect to his or her NQDIP benefits. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Plan, the new payment election described above shall in no
event change payment elections with respect to benefits that otherwise would
have been paid in 2006, or to cause payments to be made in 2006. No new payment
election may be made pursuant to this Section 5.5A after December 31,
2006. 

Any other
provisions of the PIan not amended herein shall remain in full force and
effect. 

By:  __________________________ 

Chairman
of the Board and 

Chief
Executive Officer 

</EX-10.EEE_I>

<EX-10.FFF>
 30
 ex10fff.htm
 AT&T MOBILITY 2005 CASH DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10fff.htm 

Exhibit 10-fff 

AT T
Mobility 2005 Cash Deferral Plan 

Effective
:  January 1, 2005 

Article
1   History; Statement of Purpose 

In 2001,
Cingular Wireless adopted the Cingular Wireless Cash Deferral Plan (the  Prior
Plan ).  Following the enactment of the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004, Cingular Wireless froze the Prior Plan, effective December 31,
2004.  Following that date, no additional deferrals were permitted
under the Prior Plan.  Participant accounts in the Prior Plan as of
December 31, 2004 continue to be credited with interest pursuant to Section 4.3
of the Prior Plan and remain subject to all provisions of the Prior Plan and
elections made by Participants under such Prior Plan. 

Cingular
Wireless (now AT T Mobility) created a new plan to govern and hold cash
deferrals, company match contributions, company contributions (and associated
earnings) made by or for Eligible Employees on or after January 1,
2005.  The new plan, entitled the AT T Mobility 2005 Cash Deferral
Plan (the  Plan ), is effective January 1, 2005 and its terms are set forth
herein in this document.  The Plan is intended to comply with the
provisions of 409A of the Code and the applicable guidance
thereunder. 

No
Participant Contributions or Matching Contributions with respect to Base Salary,
Bonus Awards or Long-Term Incentive Awards shall be made to or permitted under
the Plan after 2008.  Participant Contribution Accounts as of December
31, 2008 shall continue to be credited with interest pursuant to Section 4.3 and
shall remain subject to the provisions of the Plan, as it may be amended from
time to time. 

The
purpose of the Plan is to provide a select group of management employees of
AT T Mobility LLC ( AMLLC ) and affiliate companies that participate in the
Plan with an opportunity (i) to defer the receipt and income taxation of a
portion of such individual s compensation; and (ii) to receive an investment
return on those deferred amounts. 

Article
2 - Definitions 

For the
purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context indicates otherwise: 

Administrator.   The
Board or Committee, if such Committee is appointed, as determined by the
Board.  The Board/Committee may delegate administrative authority to
the Chief Executive Officer, the senior Human Resources division officer or
another individual.  Provided, however, effective on and after January
18, 2007, the Administrator shall be the Senior Executive Vice President   Human
Resources of AT T Inc. or his delegate(s).  The Administrator may
select an outside third party as the recordkeeper of the Plan. 

Affiliate.   Any
corporation, partnership, venture or other entity in which AT T Mobility or
AMLLC holds, directly or indirectly, a 10% or greater ownership
interest.  The Administrator may, in its sole discretion, designate
any other corporation, partnership, venture or other entity an Affiliate for the
purpose of allowing it to participate in the Plan. 

AMLLC.   AT T
Mobility LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, of which AT T Mobility
is the manager. 

AT T Mobility.  AT T
Mobility Corporation. 

Base Salary.   The
annual base salary, as determined by the Administrator, paid by an Employer,
before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to this Plan or reduction
pursuant to any deferral plan of an Employer, including but not limited to a
plan that includes a qualified cash or deferred arrangement under Section 401(k)
of the Code. 

Base Salary does not include zone
allowances or any other geographical differential and shall not include payments
made in lieu of unused vacation or other paid days off, and such payments shall
not be deemed to be contributed to this Plan. 

Board.   The Board of
Directors of AT T Mobility. 

Bonus Award.   An
incentive award based on an assessment of performance, payable by the Employer
to a Participant with respect to the Participant s services during a given
fiscal year of the Employer.  For purposes of the Plan,  Bonus Award 
shall not include incentive awards which relate to a period exceeding one (1)
fiscal year. 

Code.   The Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

Committee.   The
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of AT T Mobility, if such
committee is appointed, or other committee with responsibility for oversight of
the compensation and benefit programs. 

Contribution Account.  The
accounting entry as to each Participant showing the amount of such Participant s
Contributions, interest credits and Matching Contributions credited to such
account. 

Eligible
Employee.   An Employee who: 

(a) is a full time, salaried Employee
who is on active duty or Leave of Absence, 

(b) is, as determined by the
Administrator, a member of the Employer's "select group of management or highly
compensated employees" such that the Plan will qualify for treatment as a  Top
Hat  plan within the meaning of ERISA, 

(c) has an employment status which has
been approved by the Administrator to be eligible to participate in this Plan
and 

(d) has been notified in writing by the
Administrator that he is eligible to participate in the Plan. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Administrator may, from time to time, exclude any Employee or
group of Employees from being deemed an "Eligible Employee" under this
Plan. 

In the
event a court or other governmental authority determines that an individual was
improperly excluded from the class of persons who would be considered Eligible
Employees during a particular time for any reason, that individual shall not be
an Eligible Employee for purposes of the Plan for the period of time prior to
such determination. 

Employee.   Any
person classified as an  employee  according to the payroll and personnel
records of an Employer, excluding persons hired for a fixed maximum term and
excluding persons who are neither citizens nor permanent residents of the United
States, all as determined by the Administrator.   Individuals classified
as leased employees or independent contractors according to an Employer s
payroll and personnel records shall not be eligible to
participate.  For purposes of this Plan, a person on Leave of Absence
who otherwise would be an Employee shall be deemed to be an
Employee. 

Employer.   AMLLC or
any Affiliates that adopt the Plan with the consent of the Chief Executive
Officer. 

ERISA.   The Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 

Executive.   An
Employee who is in a position that is eligible to participate in the Employer s
Executive Compensation Programs as determined by the Administrator. 

Leave of
Absence.   Where a person is absent from employment with an
Employer on a formally granted leave of absence (i.e., the absence is with
formal permission in order to prevent a break in the continuity of term of
employment, which permission is granted (and not revoked) in conformity with the
rules of the Employer which employs the individual, as adopted from time to
time).  For purposes of this Plan, a Leave of Absence shall be deemed
to also include a transfer of an individual to an entity that is not an
Affiliate by an Employer for a rotational work assignment. 

Long-Term Incentive Award.  An
incentive award, based on an assessment of performance over a period greater
than one (1) year, payable by the Employer to a Participant. 

Matching
Contributions .  The contributions credited to a Participant s
Contribution Account pursuant to Section 4.4. 

Participant.   An
Eligible Employee or former Eligible Employee who participates in the
Plan. 

Participant
Contributions.   The amounts Eligible Employees are deemed to
contribute, by deferring amounts otherwise payable to them, pursuant to Sections
4 of the Plan. 

Plan.   AT T
Mobility 2005 Cash Deferral Plan. 

Retirement or
Retire.   The Termination of Employment for reasons other than
death, on or after the date on which the Employee is first eligible, upon
terminating employment, for retiree health coverage in accordance with the terms
of the Employer s health plan. 

Specified
Employee .  A Participant who is a  specified employee,  within
the meaning of Section 409A(2)(B)(i) of the Code, as determined under the
AT T Inc. compensation guidelines and provisions. 

Termination of Employment. 
References herein to  Termination of Employment,  "Terminate Employment" or a
similar reference, shall mean the event where the Employee ceases to be an
Employee of any Employer. 

Article
3 - Administration of the Plan 

The
Administrator will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and apply its
provisions in accordance with its terms.  The Administrator may
further establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as such person may
deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the
Plan.   References to determinations or other actions by the
Administrator, herein, shall mean actions authorized by such person or his
respective successors or duly authorized delegates, in each case in the
discretion of such person.  All decisions by the Administrator shall
be final and binding. 

If a
request for benefits by a Participant or beneficiary is wholly or partially
denied, the Administrator will provide such claimant written notice setting
forth the denial.  A review procedure is available upon written
request by the claimant to the Administrator within 90 days after the date of
the Administrator s written notice of the denial of the claim, and includes the
right to examine pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing
to the Administrator.  The decision on review will be made within 90
days after receipt of the request for review, unless circumstances warrant an
extension of time not to exceed an additional 90 days, and shall be in
writing.  If a decision on review is not made within such period, the
Participant s claims shall be deemed denied. 

The
Administrator shall have the sole and exclusive discretion to administer,
construe and interpret the Plan and make all determinations hereunder, including
any determinations on review of a denied claim.  All determinations
and decisions of the Administrator, including but not limited to factual
determinations and questions of construction and interpretation, shall be final,
conclusive and binding on all parties and shall be subject to the fullest
discretion afforded by law. 

Article
4 - Contributions 

4.1   

Employee Election to Make
      Contributions.  

(a)   

Each
      year, an Eligible Employee may make an election to make Participant
      Contributions with respect to Base Salary paid during the immediately
      following calendar year.  No elections with respect to Base
      Salary shall be permitted after 2007.  As permitted by the
      Administrator, an Eligible Employee may also make an election to make
      Participant Contributions with respect to Bonus Awards; provided, however,
      the election with respect to such awards must be made by the Participant
      prior to the year preceding the year in which such awards are regularly
      scheduled to be paid.  No elections with respect to Bonus Awards
      shall be permitted after 2006.  The enrollment period for making
      such elections shall be established by the Administrator.  Any
      such election is irrevocable. 

(b)   

An
      Eligible Employee may elect to contribute from 6% to 30% (in whole
      percentage increments) of Base Salary and Bonus Awards (in either one or
      separate elections as determined by the Administrator), as the same may
      change from time to time, and such Participant Contributions shall be
      credited to his/her Contribution
Account. 

(c)   

An
      Eligible Employee who is an Executive may elect to contribute up to an
      additional 20% (in whole percentage increments) of Base Salary and/or up
      to an additional 45% of Bonus Awards, as the same may change from time to
      time, and such Participant Contributions shall be credited to his/her
      Contribution Account. 

(d)   

An
      Eligible Employee who is an Executive may elect to contribute up to 75%
      (in whole percentage increments) of any Long-Term Incentive Award paid by
      AT T Mobility, as the same may change from time to time, and such
      Participant Contributions shall be credited to his/her Contribution
      Account.  Elections with respect to Long-Term Incentive Awards
      must be made by the Participant prior to the year preceding the year in
      which such Award is regularly scheduled to be paid.  No
      elections under this subsection (d) shall be permitted after
      2006. 

4.2   

Duration
      and Crediting of Participant
Contributions. 

(a)   

Participant
      Contributions (as well as any corresponding Matching Contributions) shall
      be made solely pursuant to a proper election and only during the
      Participant s lifetime and while the Participant remains an Eligible
      Employee (if the Participant ceases to be an Eligible Employee, his or her
      election to make Employee Contributions shall be cancelled); provided,
      however, Termination of Employment of an Eligible Employee shall not
      constitute loss of eligibility solely with respect to contribution
      of  Base Salary or Bonus Awards earned prior to termination but
      paid within 60 days thereafter or with respect to a Bonus or Long-Term
      Incentive Award paid after Retirement (and such person shall be deemed an
      Eligible Employee for such
contributions). 

(b)   

Participant
      Contributions shall be credited to a Contribution Account when the
      compensation would have otherwise actually been paid were it not for an
      election under this Plan. A contribution from any eligible payment that is
      delayed for any reason shall be credited when the delayed payment is
      made. 

4.3     Crediting of
Interest.  

Interest
is to be credited to the Participant s Contribution Account pursuant to the
provisions of this Section 4.3 and the procedures adopted by the Administrator
for crediting interest.    The annual interest rate for each
calendar year shall be a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Vice
President and Treasurer with the concurrence of the Chief Financial
Officer.  However, in no event will the interest rate for any calendar
year be less than the Moody s Corporate Bond Yield Average as published by
Moody s Investor Services, Inc. (or any successor thereto) for the month ending
two months prior to the month in which Eligible Employees make their annual
deferral elections under the Plan.  Effective January 1, 2009, the
interest rate shall equal the Moody s Long-Term Corporate Bond Yield Average for
the month of September preceding the calendar year during which the interest
rate will apply or such other interest rate determined by the
Administrator. 

4.4       Matching
Contributions.  

When an
Eligible Employee makes a Participant Contribution, his/her Contribution Account
shall be credited with an amount found by multiplying the matching contribution
rate provided in the Cingular Wireless 401(k) plan, including any special
transition rates, by: 

(a)   

6%
      (or such other percentage as approved by the Committee) of the Participant
      Contributions;  plus, 

(b)   

6%
      of any eligible compensation, excluding the Participant Contribution, that
      is in excess of the Code Section 401(a)(17)
  limits. 

Compensation
paid in the form of a Long-Term Incentive Award is not eligible for Matching
Contributions. 

No
Participant Contributions or Matching Contributions with respect to Base Salary,
Bonus Awards or Long-Term Incentive Awards shall be made to or permitted under
the Plan after 2008.  Participant Contribution Accounts as of December
31, 2008 shall continue to be credited with interest pursuant to Section 4.3 and
shall remain subject to the provisions of the Plan, as it may be amended from
time to time. 

Article
5  - RESERVED  

Article
6 - Distributions 

6.1           Employee
Elections. 

Eligible
Employees shall designate the time for a distribution and form of payment from
their Participant Contribution Accounts at the same time contribution elections
are made in Article 4.  Eligible Employees may elect to receive a
distribution: (a) following Termination of Employment or (b) prior to
Termination of Employment. 

(a)   Employee Elections to
Receive Distributions from Participant Accounts Following Termination of
Employment.  

Participants
may elect, during the applicable enrollment period under Article 4, to receive a
distribution from their account following their Termination of
Employment.  Participants, who are eligible for Retirement at the time
of their Termination of Employment, may elect, during the applicable enrollment
period under Article 4, to receive their distributions in 1 to 10 payments
beginning in March of the year following Termination of Employment. 

Participants,
who are not eligible for Retirement at the time of Termination of Employment,
may elect, during the applicable enrollment period under Article 4, to receive
their distributions in 1 to 3 payments beginning in March of the year following
Termination of Employment. 

If
Participants do not have a valid election on file, distributions will be made in
a single lump sum payment. 

(b)             Employee Elections to
Receive Distributions from Participant Contribution Accounts Prior to
Termination of Employment.  

In lieu
of an election to receive a distribution at Termination of Employment, Eligible
Employees may elect, during the applicable enrollment period under Article 4, to
receive a distribution from their Contribution Accounts prior to Termination of
Employment.  Such election must be made during the applicable
enrollment period determined by Article 4.  Eligible Employees may
elect to receive an  in-service  distribution according to the following
guidelines: 

Participants
may elect to receive an in-service distribution in any year of an 8 year period
beginning in the third year following the year of the deferrals.  For
example, for deferrals in 2005, in-service distributions can be elected in 2008
through 2015. 

All
in-service distributions will be paid in March of the year of the requested
distribution.  The total value, consisting of Participant and Company
Match Contributions plus accrued interest as of March 1 (the Valuation Date)
related to the specific deferral, will be paid in a single payment. 

Notwithstanding
any of the provisions of this paragraph 6.2, if a Participant incurs a
Termination of Employment in a year prior to the year of a scheduled in-service
distribution, the value of the Employee s Contribution Account will be
distributed in accordance with the guidelines for a distribution at Termination
of Employment. 

6.2              Distributions from Participant
Accounts.  

(a)     Notwithstanding
any elections made by a Participant, but subject to the provisions of (b)
through (e) below and the last paragraph of Section 6.1(b) of the Plan, a
Participant s account shall be distributed following the first to occur of the
following events (and no sooner): 

(i)           The
Participant s Termination of Employment; 

        (ii)           The
date of the Participant s death; or 

        (iii)           The
date specified in an election made pursuant to Section 6.1(b). 

(b)     All
distributions will be based on the value of the Employee s Contribution Account
as of March 1 of the year of the distribution.  Generally,
Participants shall receive distribution payments within 30 workdays following
the applicable March 1. 

(c)     Multi-year
distributions will be based on the Value of the Employee s Contribution Account
as of March 1 of each year.  Distributions are to be equal to the
Participant s Contribution Account balance divided by the number of remaining
distributions. 

(d)     Notwithstanding
the provisions of (a) or (b) above or any provision in the Plan, if the Value of
the Employee s Contribution Account is (1) less than $50,000 as of March 1 of
the year of the initial distribution payment, the number of multi-year payments
can not exceed three, or (2) less than $10,000 of the year of the initial
distribution, the total Contribution Account balance will be paid in a single
payment. 

(e)     All
distributions are subject to Section 6.6 of the Plan. 

6.3             Revoked or Amended
Elections.  

A
Participant, who has previously elected to receive a distribution prior to
Termination of Employment pursuant to Section 6.1(b), may revoke such election
during the time period specified by the Administrator.  Generally, the
period for revoking such elections will be a period that occurs prior to the
year preceding the year of the distribution.  If an election to
receive a distribution prior to Termination of Employment is revoked, the value
of the distribution will remain in the Employee s Contribution Account and will
be distributed following the later of (i) Termination of Employment or (ii) the
date which is five (5) years from the date such payment would have been made had
such election not been revoked by the Participant, and no further changes may be
elected at any time. 

A
Participant, who has elected to receive a distribution at Termination of
Employment pursuant to Section 6.1(a), may amend that election to increase the
number of distribution payments to be received following a Termination of
Employment. Provided, however, the first distribution shall not occur until the
date which is five (5) years from the date such distributions would have
commenced had such election not been changed by the Participant.  To
be valid, a revised election must be submitted during the time period
established by the Administrator which shall occur prior to the year preceding
the year the distribution was originally scheduled to occur.  No
election to decrease the number of payments or accelerate the time for payments
will be permitted by a Participant under any circumstances. 

6.4           Designation
of Beneficiary; Distributions at Death. 

Each
Participant may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named
contingently or successively) who, upon the Participant s death, will receive
the amounts that otherwise would have been paid to the Participant under the
Plan.  All designations shall be signed by the Participant, and shall
be in such form as prescribed by the Administrator.  Each designation
shall be effective as of the date received from the Participant. 

Participants
may change their designations of beneficiary on a form prescribed by the
Administrator.  The payment of amounts deferred under the Plan shall
be in accordance with the last unrevoked written designation of beneficiary that
has been signed by the Participant and delivered by the Participant to the
Administrator or a designated third party. 

In the
event that all the beneficiaries named by a Participant pursuant to this Section
6.4 predecease the Participant, the deferred amounts that would have been paid
to the Participant or the Participant s beneficiaries shall be paid to the
Participant s estate. 

In the
event a Participant does not designate a beneficiary, or for any reason such
designation is ineffective, in whole or in part, the amounts that otherwise
would have been paid to the Participant or the Participant s beneficiaries under
the Plan shall be paid to the Participant s estate. 

In the
event of death, payments shall commence beginning in March of the year following
the date of the Participant s death.  The Participant s Contribution
Account will be paid in 1 to 10 payments, as specified by the Participant on the
Beneficiary Designation Form, subject to the rules contained in Section 6.2(b),
(c) or (d).  If no Beneficiary Designation Form is on file, payments
will be made in a single lump sum payment. 

6.5 

Distribution
      Process. 

As to a
Participant s  deferrals of cash compensation, the payment of which
would have been deductible by an Employer under Section 162(m) of the Code,
regardless of the size of the cash compensation, shall be deemed to be
distributed first. 

6.6           Payments
to Specified Employees Following Termination of Employment 

Notwithstanding
any provision of this Plan to the contrary, effective on or after December 29,
2006, payments to Participants following a Termination of Employment who are
Specified Employees as of their Termination of Employment shall not be made
before the date which is 6 months after the Participant s Termination of
Employment (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant s death). 

Article 7 - Discontinuation,
Termination, Amendment . 

AMLLC
hereby reserves the right to amend, modify or terminate the Plan at any time by
action of the Board of Directors.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Senior Vice President of Human Resources may make ministerial amendments to the
plan to conform the plan to the intent of the Administrator. 

The Plan
is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred
compensation benefits for a select group of  management or highly compensated 
within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA, and therefore be
exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of
ERISA.  Accordingly, the Board may terminate the Plan and commence
termination payout for all or certain Participants, or remove certain employees
as Participants, if it is determined by the United States Department of Labor or
a court of competent jurisdiction that the Plan constitutes an employee pension
benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA which is not so
exempt.  If payout is commenced pursuant to the operation of this
Article 7, the payment of such amounts shall be made in a lump sum regardless of
the manner selected by each Participant under Article 6 herein as
applicable. 

Article
8 - Miscellaneous 

Upon
distribution the Administrator shall withhold amounts required to satisfy
the  Federal, state, and local taxes required by law to be withheld as
a result of such distribution. 

8.2             Elections and
Notices.  

Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of
every kind shall be made on forms prepared by the Administrator or made in such
other manner as permitted or required by the Administrator, including through
electronic means, over the Internet or otherwise.  An election shall
be deemed made when received by the Administrator, which may waive any defects
in form.  Unless made irrevocable by the electing person, each
election with regard to making Participant contributions or distributions shall
become irrevocable at the close of business on the last day to make such
election. The Administrator may limit the time an election may be made in
advance of any deadline. 

Any
notice or filing required or permitted to be given to AMLLC under the Plan shall
be delivered to the principal office of AMLLC, directed to the attention of the
Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources of AMLLC or his or her
successor.  Such notice shall be deemed given on the date of
delivery. 

Notice to
the Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the
Participant's work or home address as shown on the records of AMLLC or, at the
option of the Administrator, to the Participant's e-mail address as shown on the
records of AMLLC.   It is the Participant's responsibility to
ensure that the Participant's addresses are kept up to date on the records of
AMLLC. In the case of notices affecting multiple Participants, the notices may
be given by general distribution at the Participants  work
locations. 

8.3             Rights of Participants; Unsecured
General Creditor . 

The Plan
shall create a contractual obligation on the part of AMLLC to make payments from
the Participant s accounts when due.  Payment of account balances
shall be made out of the general funds of the AMLLC. 

        Participants
and their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, and assigns shall have no legal or
equitable rights, interest, or claims in any property or assets of any
Employer.  No assets of any Employer shall be held under any trust for
the benefit of Participants, their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or assigns,
or held in any way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations
of any Employer under this Plan.  Any and all of each Employer's
assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of such
Employer.  The only obligation of an Employer under the Plan shall be
merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of AMLLC to distribute amounts
deferred and interest theron under the Plan. 

AMLLC may
establish one or more trusts, with such trustee(s) as the Administrator may
approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of deferred
amounts.  Any such trust created by the AMLLC will conform to the
terms of the model trust approved by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to
Revenue Procedure 92-64, or any amendment thereof or successor to the claims of
the AMLLC s general creditors.  To the extent any deferred amounts
under the Plan are actually paid from any trust, the AMLLC shall have no further
obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid, such deferred
amounts shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by,
AMLLC. 

8.4             Offset . 

The
Administrator may offset against the Contribution Account otherwise
distributable to a Participant, any amounts due an Employer by a Participant,
including but not limited to overpayments under any compensation or benefit
plans. 

8.5             Non-Assignability . 

Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign,
transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt  of such amounts
under the Plan, if any, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which
are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No
part of the Participant s Contribution Account, prior to actual distribution, be
subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments,
alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor
be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other
person's bankruptcy or insolvency. 

8.6             Employment Not
Guaranteed . 

Nothing
contained in this Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a
contract of employment or as giving any employee any right to be retained in the
employ of an Employer. 

8.7           Errors. 

At any
time the Administrator may correct any error made under the Plan without
prejudice to AMLLC, AT T Mobility or any Affiliates.  Such
corrections may include, among other things, refunding contributions to a
Participant with respect to any period he or she made Participant Contributions
while not an Eligible Employee, or canceling the enrollment of a non-Eligible
Employee. 

The
captions of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of this Plan are for
convenience only and shall not control nor affect the meaning or construction of
any of its provisions. 

8.9             Governing Law . 

To the
extent not preempted by ERISA, this Plan shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Texas, excluding any
conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer
constructive or interpretation of this Plan to provisions of the substantive law
of any jurisdiction other than the State of Texas. Any action seeking to enforce
the rights of an employee, former employee or person who holds such rights
through, from or on behalf of such employee or former employee under this Plan
may be brought only in a Federal or state court located in Bexar County,
Texas. 

8.10             Validity . 

In the
event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the
same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this Plan. 

8.11             Successors and
Assigns . 

This Plan
shall be binding upon AMLLC and Affiliates that have adopted the Plan, and their
successors and assigns. 

</EX-10.FFF>

<EX-10.GGG>
 31
 ex10ggg.htm
 AT&T CORP EXECUTIVE DISABILITY PLAN

ex10ggg.htm 

Exhibit
10-ggg 

AT T CORP. EXECUTIVE DISABILITY
PLAN  

PROGRAM
SUMMARY FOR AT T OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 

FEBRUARY
2004 

ABOUT
THIS SUMMARY 

This Summary describes key features
of the AT T Corp. Executive Disability Plan ("Plan") as they apply beginning
April 1, 2004, to active employees of AT T Corp. ("AT T") who are
classified at either (i) a salary grade level of "E-band", or its equivalent, in
a banded environment, or a level of "Manager 5", or its equivalent, in a
non-banded environment ("Directors"); or (ii) a salary grade level above
"E-band", or its equivalent, in a banded environment, or a level above "Manager
5", or its equivalent, in a non-banded environment, also referred to as "Senior
Managers" from time to time ("Officers"). 

As a summary, this document is not
intended to cover all of the details of the Plan. More details about the Plan
can be found in the official Plan document and the insurance policies (for the
insured portion of the Plan), which legally govern all aspects of the Plan. If
there are any conflicts between the terms of the Plan document and the
description in this Summary, the Plan document and insurance policies, as
applicable, will control and govern the operation of the Plan. 

PRIOR
DISABILITY PROGRAMS 

Effective April 1, 2004, eligible
Officers and Directors will no longer be covered under the AT T Short-Term
Disability Benefit Plan for Management Employees and the AT T Long-Term
Disability Plan for Management Employees (including the "Additional 10% of Pay
Option" or "High Option"). That coverage is being replaced by the coverage
provided under the Plan. Officers will continue to be eligible to participate in
the AT T Senior Management Long-Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan
with respect to certain benefits that remain in effect under that
plan. 

1 

HOW THE
PLAN WORKS 

COMPOSITION
OF THE PLAN:   The Plan is comprised of three disability benefit
programs: 

-   

Short-Term
      Disability Benefit Program 

-   

Base
      LTD Benefit Program, and 

-   

Supplemental
      Disability Income Program ("SDIP") 

ENROLLMENT:   All
Officers and Directors are automatically enrolled for coverage under the
Short-Term Disability Benefit Program and the Base LTD Benefit Program. If you
wish to enroll for coverage under the SDIP during the initial enrollment period,
you should complete and return the enrollment materials that accompany this
Summary by the indicated deadline. If you decline to enroll in the SDIP during
the initial enrollment period, you will be able to enroll with evidence of
insurability during future annual open enrollment periods. 

SHORT-TERM
DISABILITY BENEFIT PROGRAM:   The Short-Term Disability Benefit
Program will provide you with weekly short-term disability benefits equal to the
weekly equivalent of 100 percent of your annual base salary. The short-term
disability benefit will commence on the eighth consecutive day of your absence
from work due to disability (as defined in the Plan document). Short-term
disability benefits will continue until the earlier of (i) the date you are no
longer considered disabled; or (ii) the last day of the 26th week after
commencement of you short-term disability benefits under the Plan. All
short-term disability benefits are reduced by certain payments made under other
AT T-sponsored benefit plans. 

BASE LTD
BENEFIT PROGRAM:   If, after receiving 26 weeks of short-term
disability benefits, you continue to be disabled (as defined in the Plan
document), regardless of your length of service with AT T, you will be
eligible to receive base long-term disability ("LTD") benefits equal to 60
percent of your eligible compensation, reduced by benefit payments from certain
other AT T benefit plans as specified in the Plan document. This benefit
entitlement arises if your disability is due to the same physical or mental
impairment for which you received short-term disability benefits. Your base LTD
benefits will continue until the earlier of (i) the time you are no longer
disabled; or (ii) your 65  th  
birthday. 

SUPPLEMENTAL
DISABILITY INCOME PROGRAM ("SDIP"):   The Plan also offers
supplemental long-term disability income protection to you under the SDIP. To be
eligible for this fully-insured supplemental disability coverage, you must
enroll (as described in the enclosed materials) in one of the following coverage
options and pay the applicable premiums: 

OPTION 1:   Additional
10% of your monthly base salary (and two-year average commission, if
applicable) 

        OPTION 2:   Up to 70% of
the monthly equivalent of your two-year average annual bonus 

OPTION 3:   Up to an
additional 10% of your monthly base salary (and two-year average commission, if
applicable), plus up to 70% of the monthly equivalent of your two-year average
annual bonus 

If your disability (as defined in the
SDIP insurance policy) continues more than 180 days, you will be eligible for
the monthly supplemental disability income benefits provided under your SDIP
coverage option. The maximum amount of monthly SDIP benefits you may receive
under any of the three options will be the lesser of (i) $7,500 per month; or
(ii) the benefit amount which, when combined with your base LTD benefit and any
other disability coverage in force, provides you with a disability benefit of
$50,000 per month. 

2 

One of the significant advantages of
the SDIP is that your insurance coverage is "portable", i.e., you will be able
to maintain the coverage after your employment with AT T terminates. Another
advantage is that the SDIP benefits will not be subject to offset by payments
under other AT T benefit programs. See the enclosed enrollment materials for
more information concerning the SDIP. 

COST OF
COVERAGE 

AT T pays the full cost of your
coverage under the Short-Term Disability Benefit Program and the Base LTD
Benefit Program. If you enroll in the SDIP, you will pay the applicable premiums
through payroll deductions while you are employed by AT T, and thereafter,
on a direct-pay basis with the insurer. 

FUNDING
AND POLICY OWNERSHIP 

Under the Plan, the short-term
disability and base LTD benefits will be self-insured by AT T. The SDIP
coverage is fully-insured through a contract underwritten by MetLife. If you
enroll in the SDIP, you will receive a MetLife policy for your coverage under
that portion of the Plan. 

FEDERAL
INCOME TAX IMPLICATIONS 

Your Short-Term Disability Benefit
Program and Base LTD Benefit Program coverage will be provided to you by
AT T on a pre-tax basis. Therefore, any short-term disability benefits or
base LTD benefits you receive under the Plan will be considered taxable income
to you (based on current federal income tax law). 

If you enroll in the SDIP, all of
your premium payments will be made on an after-tax basis. Therefore, any
benefits you receive under the SDIP will not be considered taxable income to
you. 

CONSULTATION
WITH FINANCIAL ADVISORS 

You may wish to speak with your
financial counselor regarding this Plan, including your disability income
replacement needs and the advisability of enrolling in the SDIP. 

INSURANCE
CARRIER 

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
(MetLife) is the insurance carrier that underwrites the coverage under the SDIP
and is responsible for paying the applicable supplemental disability income
benefits under the Plan. 

FUTURE
PROGRAM CHANGES 

The Board of Directors at AT T
Corp. (or its delegate) reserves the right to modify, suspend, change or
terminate the Plan at any time. Nothing contained in this Summary, the Plan
document or any related document (including any insurance policy) shall create a
contract of employment with any employee or a participant. 

3 

</EX-10.GGG>

<EX-10.HHH>
 32
 ex10hhh.htm
 AT&T CORP SR MGMT UNIVERSAL LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM

ex10hhh.htm 

Exhibit
10-hhh 

AT T
CORP. 

        SENIOR
MANAGEMENT 

        UNIVERSAL
LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM 

Effective
October 1, 1999 

Purpose 

The
purpose of the AT T Corp. Senior Management Universal Life Insurance Program
is to provide  life  insurance  benefits to
certain  executives  who  contribute materially to
the continued  growth,  development,  and
future  business of AT T Corp. 

Section  1. 

        Definitions 

The
following words and phrases,  as used in this Plan,  shall
have the meanings set forth below unless a clearly different meaning is required
by the context in which the word or phrase is used. 

1.0      Administrator.  "Administrator"  means
the Executive  Vice  President -
Human  Resources  of the Company (or
any  successor  to such  position)
having  responsibility for personnel  matters,  or
his or her designee.  The Administrator shall manage and administer
the Program in accordance with its terms and conditions. 

1.1      Assignee.
"Assignee" means the person, trust, entity or organization to whom or to which a
Policyholder  makes an irrevocable  assignment on or after
October 1, 1999, of all his or her rights, title, interest, and
incidents  of  ownership,  both  present
and future,  to the  Insurance Policy  and
any  other  assignable  rights  to
the  benefits  under the Program. 

1.2      Beneficiary.   "Beneficiary"
means the person, trust, entity, organization or the estate of
a  Policy holder  designated  pursuant to
Section  5.4 that is  entitled to
receive  benefits  from an  Insurance Policy upon
the death of a Participant. 

1.3      Benefit
Amount. "Benefit Amount" means the amount of the life insurance benefit under
the Insurance Policy for which premiums are payable by the Company under the
Program.  The "Benefit Amount" for a Participant shall be determined
in accordance with Section 5.2. 

1.4      Board.  "Board"
means the Board of Directors of the Company. 

1.5      Company.  "Company"
means AT T Corp., a New York corporation, and any successors to such
entity. 

1.6      Eligible
Executive.  "Eligible  Executive"  means either
(a) an active employee of an Employer  who, on
September  30, 1999,  is covered as an insured under one or
more life insurance policies that are subject to a
collateral  assignment  agreement with the Company under one
or both of the Prior Programs; or (b) any other regular, full-time employee of
the Company  who, on or after  October 1,
1999,  is  classified  as a U.S. salary-based
senior manager of the Company (or equivalent salary grade, as determined by the
Company in accordance with its payroll  practices) and is determined
by the Administrator,  in his or her sole discretion, to be eligible
for participation in the Program. 

1.7      Employer.  "Employer"
means the Company and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, as determined
by the Company in its sole discretion. 

1.8      ERISA.  "ERISA"
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended. 

1.9      Insurance
Policy.  "Insurance Policy" means one or more life insurance contracts
issued by the Insurer on the life of an Eligible Executive. 

1.10     Insurer.  "Insurer"
means the insurance company or companies to which the Company shall apply for
insurance on an Eligible Executive's life, and which issues an Insurance
Policy. 

1.11     Normal
Termination Date. "Normal Termination Date" means the latest of (a) the date a
Participant is eligible for retirement-related benefits from  the
Company as described in Section 2.2; (b) the date a Participant attains age 65;
(c) the date as of which a Participant has been covered for a
combined  total of at least 15 years under the Prior
Programs  and the Program (for an
Eligible  Executive  who had coverage under both of the
Prior Programs, this 15-year period of coverage shall be measured beginning
from  the later of his or her coverage commencement  dates
under the respective  Prior  Programs);  or (d)
the date the Insurance Policy has sufficient  cash value, as
determined by the Company in its sole discretion, to provide life insurance
coverage for the Participant's remaining life expectancy. 

1.12     Participant.   "Participant"
means an Eligible Executive who has satisfied all of the eligibility and
enrollment conditions in Section 2.0 and with respect to whom an Insurance
Policy has been procured pursuant to Section 3.0 through Section
3.3.  For purposes of this Section 1.12, "Participant" shall include
(a) a Participant who subsequently becomes disabled and satisfies the
requirements of Section 2.1; and (b) a Participant who retires from active
employment with the Company and is then eligible for retirement-related benefits
as described in Section 2.2. 

1.13     Policyholder.   "Policyholder"
means the person, trust, entity or organization determined in accordance with
Section 4.0 to be the owner of the Insurance Policy on an Eligible Executive's
life. 

1.14     Prior
Programs. "Prior Programs" means the AT T Senior Management Basic Life
Insurance Program and the AT T Senior Management Individual Life Insurance
Program as in effect on September 30, 1999.  The Prior Programs shall
be terminated effective as of September 30, 1999, and replaced by the
Program. 

1.15     Program.  "Program"
means the AT T Corp. Senior Management Universal Life Insurance Program,
which shall be evidenced by this plan document, as amended from time to
time. 

Section
2. 

        Eligibility
and Participation 

2.0      Eligibility
Conditions.  Upon becoming an Eligible Executive, an individual may
become a Participant by: 

(a)      Completing,
executing, and returning all of the enrollment applications and other documents
required under the Program in the form approved by the
Administrator; 

(b)      Cooperating
with the Company in obtaining the Insurance Policy on his or her life as
required by Sections 3.0 and 3.1; and 

(c)      Complying
with such further conditions as may be established by the Administrator from
time to time. 

Subject
to the provisions of Sections 2.1, 2.2, 3.3 and 4.1, an Eligible Executive shall
be eligible to continue to participate in the Program until the occurrence of
any event described in Section 6.0 that causes the termination of his or her
participation in the Program. 

2.1      Disability
Prior to Normal Termination Date. In the event that (a) a
Participant  becomes  disabled (as determined under the
AT T Long Term Disability Plan for Management Employees),  and (b)
the Participant continues to be disabled until his or her Normal Termination
Date (without regard to whether the Participant continues to  receive
payments  under  the AT T Long Term Disability Plan for
Management Employees through  such
date),  the  Participant shall be eligible to
continue  to  participate in the  Program until
his or her  Normal Termination  Date.  If, for any
reason, the Participant ceases to be disabled
(as  determined  under  the  terms of
the AT T Long Term Disability Plan for Management Employees) prior to
reaching his or her Normal Termination Date and
the  Participant  does not resume  active
employment with the Employer,
the  Participant's  participation in the Program
shall  terminate as of the date of cessation of such disability
status. 

2.2      Retirement
Prior to Normal Termination Date.  In the event  that a
Participant  (a)  terminates  employment  prior  to
his  or her  Normal Termination Date, and (b) is eligible
for  retirement-related  benefits from
the  Company,  the  Participant  shall
be  eligible to continue to participate  in the Program
until his or her
Normal  Termination  Date.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Participant's participation in the Program may cease prior to his
or her Normal  Termination Date upon the occurrence of
another  event  described in Section 6.0. For purposes of
this Program, a Participant shall
be  considered   eligible  for  retirement-related  benefits
if he or she has satisfied the eligibility conditions  for receipt
of  postretirement  medical  benefits under the
AT T Medical Expense Plan for Retired Employees, as then in
effect. 

2.3      Recommencement
of Participation.  Once a Participant's participation in the Program
has  terminated  as provided in Section 6.0 (other than due
to the  occurrence  of an event  described in
Sections  6.0(a),  (b) or (c)), he or she
may  recommence  participation  in the Program if
he or she (a) is an  Eligible  Executive  at
the  time  participation  is to
recommence;   and  (b)   satisfies   any  and  all   requirements
for recommencement of participation established by the Administrator in his or
her sole discretion. 

Section  3. 

        Procurement
of Insurance Policy 

3.0      Insurance  Application  Requirements.  The  Company  shall
apply to the Insurer for an Insurance Policy on the life of each
Eligible  Executive in an amount  determined by the Company
to be sufficient to provide the applicable Benefit Amount for the Eligible
Executive. 

3.1      Cooperation  Requirement
for Eligible Executive.  An Eligible Executive shall reasonably
cooperate with the Company in its efforts to apply for and obtain the Insurance
Policy on his or her life by: 

(a)      Furnishing
such information as the Insurer may require for completion of the insurance
application and related forms and documents; 

(b)      Taking
such physical examinations and supplying medical history as may be requested by
the Insurer; 

(c)      Signing
the application for the Insurance Policy as the insured; and 

(d)      Doing
any other act to comply with the underwriting and policy issuance requirements
which may reasonably be requested by the Insurer or the
Administrator. 

3.2      Cooperation   Requirement
for Policyholder.   A Policyholder shall reasonably cooperate
with the Company in its efforts to apply for and obtain the Insurance Policy on
the life of an Eligible Executive by: 

(a)      Furnishing
such information  as the  Insurer may require
for  completion of the insurance  application and related
forms and documents; 

(b)      Signing
the application for the Insurance Policy as the proposed policy owner;
and 

(c)      Doing
any other act to comply with the underwriting and policy issuance requirements
which may reasonably be requested by the Insurer or the
Administrator. 

3.3      Consequences
of Failure to Cooperate.  The Company shall have no obligation to the
Eligible Executive, the Policyholder or the Policyholder's Beneficiary under the
Program and the Eligible Executive's participation in the Program shall become
null, void and of no force or effect if: 

(a)      The
Administrator,  in his or her sole discretion,  determines
that  an  Eligible  Executive  or  the  Policyholder  has  not
adequately   cooperated   in  the  process  of  procuring  the
Insurance Policy on the Eligible  Executive's life as required by
Section 3.1 and Section 3.2, respectively; or 

(b)      The
Company is, for any reason,  unable to obtain insurance in
the  specified  amount  on
an  Eligible  Executive's  life  at
standard rates or rates otherwise acceptable to the Company. 

Section  4. 

        Incidents
of Ownership 

4.0      Policy  Ownership.  The
Insurance  Policy shall, at all times, be owned solely
and  absolutely by the  Policyholder,  except in
the event of an assignment  to an Assignee as provided  for
in Section 4.2. The person,
trust,  entity  or  organization  that  will
be the  Policyholder  with respect to a Participant shall be
determined as follows: 

(a)      Eligible  Executive
Who  Participated  in Prior  Programs with Single
Policy Owner.  If on September 30, 1999 (i) an Eligible
Executive  was  covered as
an  insured  under one or more life insurance policies that
are subject to a collateral assignment with the Company under one or both of the
Prior Programs,  and (ii) all such
life  insurance  policies were owned by a single policy
owner (or  assignee),  such policy owner
(or  assignee) shall  be
the  Eligible  Executive's  Policyholder  under  the
Program. 

(b)      Eligible  Executive
Who  Participated  in Prior  Programs with
Multiple  Policy  Owners.  If
on  September  30,  1999  (i) an
Eligible Executive was covered as an insured under one or more
life  insurance  policies  that
are  subject  to a  collateral assignment
agreement with the Company under one or both of the Prior Programs, and (ii) all
such life insurance policies were owned by two or more
different  policy owners (or  assignees), the Eligible
Executive's  Policyholder under the Program shall be the
person,  trust, entity or organization that all of such policy owners
or assignees  (excluding the Eligible  Executive if he
or  she is one of
the  policy  owners)  agree  upon  and
designate  as
the  Policyholder  with  respect to the Eligible
Executive.  If, for any reason, an agreement among such policy
owners  (or  assignees)  cannot be reached by
October 1, 1999, and/or
no  designation  of  Policyholder  is  received  by
the Administrator by October 1, 1999, the Eligible Executive shall be the
Policyholder  unless the  Administrator,  in his
or her sole  discretion,  determines  that one or
more other persons,  trusts,  entities or
organizations  should be the Policyholder
with  respect  to  the   Insurance   Policy  on  the  Eligible
Executive's life. 

(c)      Eligible  Executive  Who  Did  Not  Participate  in
the  Prior Programs.  If on September 30, 1999, an Eligible
Executive was not  covered  as an insured  under
one or more life  insurance policies issued under one or both of the
Prior  Programs,  the
Eligible  Executive's  Policyholder under the Program shall
be the person (including the Eligible  Executive),  trust,
entity or organization that the
Eligible  Executive  designates to be his or
her  Policyholder in the
Eligible  Executive's  written
enrollment  application for participation in the
Program.  If, for any reason, an Eligible  Executive who did
not participate in either of the Prior Programs on September 30, 1999 fails to
designate  a  Policyholder  under
the  Program,  the  Eligible
Executive  shall  be  the  Policyholder  with  respect  to
the Insurance Policy on his or her life. 

4.1      Rights
of Policyholder  and Company.  Prior to
a  Participant's  Normal Termination Date, the Policyholder
or his or her Assignee shall control
all  incidents  of  ownership  with  respect  to
the  Insurance  Policy including all policy cash values and
death benefits under the Insurance
Policy  on  the  Participant's   life.   However,   in  the  event  the
Policyholder  or his or her Assignee  surrenders the
Insurance  Policy, withdraws  any cash value from
the  Insurance  Policy or obtains a loan from
the  Insurance  Policy,  the  Participant's  participation  in
the Program shall  immediately  cease and the Company will
not be obligated to continue to make any further premium payments as provided by
Section 5.1 for the Insurance Policy. 

4.2      Assignment
of Insurance  Policy by Policyholder.  A
Policyholder  shall have the right, at any time, to absolutely
and  irrevocably  assign his or her
rights,  title,  interest,  and incidents of
ownership in and to the Insurance Policy and any other
assignable  rights to benefits under
this  Program  to  any  person,  trust,  entity  or  organization.  Any
assignment  shall be subject to the  consent of
the  Insurer.  Any such assignment shall be on a form
approved by the Insurer. No assignment by a Policyholder  shall be
effective until acknowledged in writing by the Insurer. A copy of the
written  acknowledgment shall be returned to the
Policyholder  and the  Assignee.  Once
the  assignment of the Insurance Policy has
been  acknowledged by the
Insurer,  the  Policyholder  shall have no further
rights, title, interest or incidents of ownership, both present and
future,  in or under the  Insurance  Policy or to
any other rights to benefits under the Program covered by the assignment, and
the Assignee  shall have all such
assigned  rights,  title,  interest, and incidents
of  ownership,  both present and future,  under
the Insurance Policy and the Program. 

4.3      Beneficiary  Elections
and Settlement Options. A Policyholder or his or her Assignee, if any, may
exercise (a) the right to designate or change  the Beneficiary of life
insurance  proceeds under the
Insurance  Policy  pursuant to Section 5.4;  and
(b) the right to elect any optional  mode
of  settlement  with  respect  to such
life  insurance  proceeds.  Upon request of
a Policyholder  or  his  or  her  Assignee,  if  any,  the
applicable  form for any  designation  or change
of  Beneficiary or any
election  of  an  optional  mode  of  settlement  shall  be  sent  to
a Policyholder, an Assignee or a Beneficiary, as appropriate. 

4.4      No
Ownership Interest by the Company. No provision in the Program shall be
construed or  interpreted  to permit or provide the Company
with any rights,  title,  interest or  incidents
of  ownership, both present or future, to the Insurance
Policy. 

Section  5. 

        Payment
of Benefits 

5.0      Source
of Benefits. The sole benefit under the Program to a Participant
shall  be the  premium  payments  made
by the  Company  to the  Insurer pursuant to
Section 5.1 to maintain the Insurance  Policy on his or her
life  and  the  tax   adjustment   made  pursuant  to  Section  5.3.  A
Beneficiary's  sole source of benefits  under the
Program  shall be the Insurance Policy under which the
Policyholder,  or his or her Assignee,
designates  a  Beneficiary  to  receive   benefits   payable  upon  the
Participant's death. 

5.1      Payment
of Insurance Premiums.  When the Company submits an application for
the Insurance Policy on the life of an
Eligible  Executive,  or as
soon  thereafter  as is required by the
Insurer,  the Company shall pay the initial premium on the Insurance
Policy to the Insurer. Thereafter,
the  Company  shall  annually  (or
more  frequently  as required by the Insurer)  pay
the  premiums  determined  to be due under
the  Insurance Policy.  While the
Eligible  Executive is a Participant,  the amount of the
premiums paid by the Company shall be sufficient,  as determined by
the Company in its sole discretion, to maintain life insurance coverage on
the  life  of
the  Participant  equal  to
the  Benefit  Amount.  The
Company's  obligation to make premium  payments on the
Insurance Policy covering the life of a Participant  shall cease upon
the termination of the Participant's participation, as provided for in Section
6.0. 

5.2      Benefit
Amount. 

(a)       The  Benefit  Amount  under  the  Program  with  respect  to
a Participant  who
is  actively  employed  by an Employer at any time
on
or  after  October  1,  1999  shall
be  determined  as follows: 

(i)      Prior
to Age 65: The Benefit Amount for a Participant prior to age 65 shall be equal
to 250  percent of the Participant's annual base salary (determined
based on the  Employer's  records) paid to
the  Participant by
the  Employer,  rounded  up to the
next  $1,000.  Any
salary  increase  will be  reflected  in
the  Benefit Amount as soon as administratively  practicable
after the salary increase becomes effective. 

(ii)     Age  65  and  Older:   The   Benefit   Amount  for  a
Participant  age 65 or  older  will
be  equal  to the Participant's Benefit Amount at age
64. 

(b)      Any
Participant who is eligible for continued participation in the
Program  pursuant to the  provisions of either Section 2.1
or  Section  2.2 due
to  retirement  or  disability  prior  to
attainment of his of her Normal  Termination  Date will have
a Benefit Amount as described  under Section  5.2(a)(i) and
(ii) above,  whichever is applicable,  throughout the
Participant's period of continued  participation  in the
Program  (under the terms of Section 2.1 or Section 2.2, as
applicable); provided, however,  that for purposes of determining
such  Participant's
Benefit  Amount,   the  Participant's   "annual  base  salary"
referred to in Section  5.2(a)(i)  shall be
the  Participant's
final  "annual  base  salary"  on  the  date  of  his  or  her
retirement or disability. 

5.3      Tax
Adjustment. The Company shall make a tax adjustment with respect to each premium
payment made to the Insurer pursuant to Section 5.1 on the
Insurance  Policy  covering the life of
a  Participant.  The amount and frequency of each
tax  adjustment,  as determined by the Company in its
sole  discretion,  is intended to be  sufficient
to cover the estimated amount of federal  income taxes and FICA taxes
that will be incurred by the  Participant  on
the  sum
of  the  premium  payment  plus  the  tax
adjustment itself. Each tax adjustment shall be equal to the sum of two amounts
that are described below and referred to herein respectively as the "tax
withholding portion" and the "excess portion": 

(a)      Tax
Withholding Portion of Tax Adjustment: The tax withholding portion of each tax
adjustment  shall be equal to the combined total amount of
federal  income taxes and FICA taxes  required to be
withheld  with respect to (i) each premium  payment made by
the Company; and (ii) each corresponding tax adjustment. 

(b)      Excess
Portion of Tax  Adjustment:  The excess portion of each
tax   adjustment   shall  be  equal  to  the   applicable  tax
adjustment,  reduced by the related tax withholding portion of such
tax  adjustment  determined  under  Section  5.3(a)  with  respect
to the premium payment and the related tax adjustment. 

The  tax  withholding  portion  of  each  tax  adjustment  payment,  as
described  in  Section  5.3(a)  (above),  shall
be paid by the  Company directly to the applicable federal tax
authorities.  The excess portion of each tax adjustment payment, as
described in Section 5.3(b) (above), shall be paid in cash to
the  Participant  (or if he or she is not then
living,  to his or her
estate).  The  Company's  obligation to make
tax  adjustment  payments with respect to a Participant
shall cease upon the termination of the Participant's  participation
in the Program pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.0. 

5.4      Beneficiary  Designations.  A
Policyholder  or, if the Policyholder has  assigned the
Insurance Policy pursuant to Section 4.2, the Assignee may designate a
Beneficiary  to receive life  insurance  proceeds
under the Insurance  Policy upon the death of
the  Participant,  or may change an
existing  designation  of
the  Beneficiary  to
receive  such  insurance
proceeds.  Any  designation  of Beneficiary or
change in the designated Beneficiary  shall
be  accomplished  in accordance  with the
applicable terms of the Insurance Policy using forms approved by the
Insurer.  If, for any reason,  no
valid  Beneficiary  designation is on file with the
Insurer  at the time of
the  Participant's  death,  the
life  insurance proceeds payable under the Insurance Policy shall be
paid in accordance with the terms of the Insurance Policy. 

5.5      No
Company or  Employer  Obligation.  Neither the
Company nor any other Employer  shall  have
any  obligation  of
any  nature  whatsoever  to a
Policyholder  or his or her Assignee or Beneficiary  under
this Program
if  the  circumstances  of  the  Participant's  death,  the  terms  and
conditions of this Program,  or any other reason,  precludes
payment of life  insurance  proceeds  or any
other  benefits  under the  Insurance Policy or
Program. 

5.6      No
Affect on Other Company Benefits:  No portion of any premium payment
on any Insurance Policy or any tax adjustment payment made with respect to
a  Participant  as provided  in
this  Section 5 shall be included or otherwise taken
into  consideration as pay,  compensation or income for
purposes  of any
other  "employee  welfare  benefit  plan"  (within
the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA),  any "employee pension benefit
plan"
(within  the  meaning  of  Section   3(2)  of  ERISA),   or  any  other
compensation  or benefit plan,  program
or  arrangement of any Employer covering the
Participant  unless  expressly  provided for in
such plan, program or arrangement. 

Section  6. 

        Termination
of Participation 

6.0      Events  that  Cause  Termination  of  Participation.   A  Participant's
participation  in the Program shall  terminate when the
first of any of the following events occurs: 

(a)      The
death of the Participant; 

(b)      The
Participant attains his or her Normal Termination Date; 

(c)      The
Board (or its delegate) terminates the Program pursuant to Section
8.1; 

(d)      The  termination  of
the  Participant's  employment  with  the
Company,  for any
reason  (other  than  death,  disability  as
described in Section 2.1 or retirement with retirement-related benefits
as  described  in Section  2.2),  prior
to his or her Normal  Termination  Date
(unless  otherwise  agreed to by the Company in
writing); 

(e)      Cessation
of the Participant's  disability prior to his or her
Normal  Termination  Date  under  circumstances  described  in
Section  2.1,  when  the   Participant   does  not  recommence
employment with the Employer; 

(f)      Voluntary  termination
of the  Participant's  participation in the Program
initiated by the Participant giving written notice to
the  Administrator  prior to his or her
Normal  Termination  Date; 

(g)      The
Policyholder or his or her Assignee,  if any, takes any of
the  actions
described  in  Section  4.1  (e.g.,
loans or
withdrawals)  that  cause  termination  of  the
Participant's participation in the Program; 

(h)      Demotion  of  the  Participant  to  a  position  that  is  not
classified  or  otherwise  treated  by
the  Company as being a senior manager-level position (or equivalent
salary grade), as determined by the Administrator; or 

(i)      The   Participant   is  determined   by  the  Executive   Vice
President-Human  Resources of the Company,  in his or her
sole discretion,  to have engaged in any
competitive  activity that violates the provisions of the AT T
Non-Competition Guideline, as  amended  from time to
time,  or any other  non-competition commitment of the
Participant to any Employer. 

Termination
of a  Participant's  participation  in the Program
upon the occurrence  of any of the
events  described  in this  Section 6.0 shall have
the consequences  described in Sections 6.1, 6.2 or 6.3, whichever is
applicable. 

6.1      Death
of Participant Prior to Normal Termination Date. If a Participant continues to
participate in the Program until his or her  participation
terminates  due to
death  (as  provided  in  Section  6.0(a))  prior
to attainment of his or her Normal  Termination Date, then effective
as of the date of death: 

(a)      The  Company  shall  have
no  further  obligation  to make any
premium  payments with respect to the Insurance  Policy on
the Participant's life pursuant to Section 5.1. 

(b)      The  Policyholder's  Beneficiary  shall
be entitled to receive the
life  insurance  benefit  payable by the Insurer
under the Insurance Policy,  subject to any
binding  settlement  options elected by the Policyholder
prior to the Participant's death. 

(c)      The  restrictions  in  Section  4.1  on  the  Policyholder  or
Assignee  pertaining  to the exercise of
certain  incidents of ownership of the Insurance  Policy on
the  Participant's  life (e.g., loans and withdrawals) shall
no longer apply. 

6.2      Attainment
of Normal  Termination  Date. If a
Participant  continues to participate in the Program until his or her
participation terminates by reason of his or
her  attainment  of
the  Normal  Termination  Date (as
provided  in  Section  6.0(b)),  then  effective  as  of  the  date
of termination of participation: 

(a)      The  Company  shall  have
no  further  obligation  to make any
premium  payments with respect to the Insurance  Policy on
the Participant's life pursuant to Section 5.1. 

(b)      The  Insurance  Policy
will have  sufficient  cash  value,  as
determined using
reasonable  actuarial  assumptions  chosen by the
Company in its sole discretion,  to provide life insurance
coverage   throughout   the   Participant's   remaining   life
expectancy. 

(c)      The  restrictions  in  Section  4.1  on  the  Policyholder  or
Assignee  pertaining  to the exercise of
certain  incidents of ownership of the Insurance  Policy on
the  Participant's  life  (e.g., loans and
withdrawals) shall no longer apply. 

6.3      Discontinuance
of Participation  Prior to Normal Termination Date. If a
Participant's  participation  in  the  Program  terminates  due  to
the occurrence  of any of the events  described in
Section  6.0(c)  through
Section  6.0(i),  inclusive,  then  effective  as
of the  date  of such termination of
participation: 

(a)      The  Company  shall  have
no  further  obligation  to make any
premium  payments with respect to the Insurance  Policy on
the Participant's life pursuant to Section 5.1. 

(b)      The
Participant,  Policyholder, and any Assignee shall have no further
rights under the Program and shall only be entitled to  the
Insurance  Policy cash value as of the date of termination
of  participation  in the Program.  The
Company  shall have no obligation  to
pay  additional  premiums or increase  the cash
value so as to provide cash values  sufficient to continue any level
of coverage  under the
Insurance  Policy  throughout the
Participant's   remaining  life   expectancy.   The  Insurance  Policy's  cash
value  (whether  above or below
any  estimates,  projections
or  illustrations)  shall be limited solely to the
cash  value  of  the  Insurance  Policy  on  the  date  of
the Participant's termination of participation in the Program. 

(c)      The  restrictions  in  Section  4.1  on  the  Policyholder  or
Assignee  pertaining  to the exercise of
certain  incidents of ownership of the Insurance  Policy on
the  Participant's  life (e.g., loans and withdrawals) shall
no longer apply. 

Section  7. 

        Claims
and Appeals 

7.0      Claims.  A
person who believes that he or she is being denied a benefit  to which
he or she is entitled under this Program (hereinafter referred to as
a  "Claimant")  may file a written  request for
such benefit with  the Company's Executive Human
Resources  Department,  setting forth his or her claim. The
request must be addressed to the Company's  Executive
Human  Resources  Department at its
then  principal  place of
business.   Notwithstanding  the
foregoing,  any Beneficiary's claim for payment
of  life  insurance  proceeds from an
Insurance  Policy on a  Participant's life shall not
be  considered a claim for benefits  under this
Program.  Any such  claim for
life  insurance  proceeds  should be filed with
the  Insurer in accordance  with the terms
and  provisions of the applicable Insurance Policy. 

7.1      Claim
Decision.  Upon receipt of a claim, the Company's Executive
Human  Resources  Department  shall advise
the  Claimant  that a reply will be
forthcoming  within ninety (90) days and shall,  in
fact,  deliver such reply within
such  period.  The  Company's  Executive  Human  Resources
Department  may,  however,  extend  the  reply  period  for  up  to  an
additional ninety (90) days for reasonable cause. 

If
the claim is  denied  by
the Company's  Executive  Human  Resources  Department,  in  whole  or  in  part,  the  Company's  Executive  Human  Resources  Department  shall
provide a written  response using language calculated to be understood
by the Claimant and setting forth:  (a) the  specific reason
or reasons for such denial; (b) specific  references to pertinent
provisions of this Program on which such denial is based; (c) a description of
any additional  material or information  necessary for the
Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation of why such material or
such information is necessary;  (d) appropriate information as to the
steps to be taken if the Claimant  wishes to submit the claim
for  review;  and (e) the time  limits
for  requesting  a review  under Section 7.2 and
for review under Section 7.3. 

7.2      Request  for  Review.  Within  sixty
(60) days after the receipt by the Claimant of the
written  opinion  described  above,  the  Claimant  may  request
in writing that the  Administrator  review the determination
of  the Company's Executive Human
Resources  Department.  Such request must  be
addressed to the  Administrator  at the address for giving
notice to the Administrator designated in Section 9.3. The Claimant or his or
her  duly authorized  representative may, but need not,
review the pertinent  documents and submit  issues and
comments in writing for  consideration  by the
Administrator.  If the Claimant does not request a review of
the  Company's Executive Human
Resources  Department's  determination by the
Administrator  within such sixty (60) day period, the Claimant shall
be  barred and estopped from challenging the determination of the
Company's Executive Human Resources Department. 

7.3      Review
of Decision.  Within  sixty (60) days after
the  Administrator's receipt of a
request  for  review,  the  Administrator  will
review the determination  of the Company's  Executive Human
Resources  Department.  After  considering  all  materials  presented  by  the  Claimant,   the
Administrator  will  render  a  written  opinion,  written  in
a manner designed to be understood  by the
Claimant,  setting forth the specific reasons for
the  decision
and  containing  specific  references  to
the  pertinent provisions of this Program on which the decision is
based. If special  circumstances  require  that
the sixty (60) day time period be  extended, the Administrator will so
notify the Claimant and will render  the decision as soon as
possible,  but no later than one hundred twenty (120) days after
receipt of the request for review. 

The  Administrator  shall
serve as the final review committee under the  Program and shall have
sole
and  complete  discretionary  authority  to
determine  conclusively  for all parties,  and
in  accordance  with the  terms of the documents
or  instruments  governing the Program,  any and
all  questions   arising  from   administration   of  the  Program  and
interpretation  of  all  Program   provisions,   determination  of  all  questions   relating  to  participation  of  Eligible   Executives  and
eligibility  for benefits,  determination  of all
relevant  facts,  the  amount and type
of  benefits  payable to
any  Participant,  Assignee
or  Beneficiary,  and  the  construction  of  all  terms  of  the  Program.  Decisions
by the  Administrator  shall be conclusive and binding on
all parties and not subject to further review. 

In
any case, a  Participant  may have further  rights
under
ERISA.  The  Program  provisions  require  that  Participants  pursue  all
claim and appeal rights described above before they seek any other legal
recourse  regarding claims for benefits. 

Section  8. 

        Amendment
and Termination 

8.0      Continuation   of  Program.   The  Company  does  not   guarantee   the  continuation
of the Program or any benefits during  employment or at or during
retirement, nor does the Company guarantee any specific level
of  benefits.  Benefits  are  provided  under
the Program at the  Company's  discretion  and do
not create a
contract  of  employment.  Neither  the
establishment  nor the  continuance  of the Plan
shall be  construed as conferring  any legal rights upon
any  Eligible  Executive or any other  person for
continuation of employment,  nor shall such establishment
or  continuance  interfere  with the right of the
Company to discharge  any  Eligible Executive without regard
to the existence of the Program.  The Company  intends to
continue  the
Program  indefinitely;  however,  the  Board  reserves
the right to amend or terminate the Program at any time  pursuant to
Section 8.1. 

8.1      Amendment
or Termination. The Board or pursuant to delegated
authority,  the  Chairman  of
the  Board  (or in
his  absence  the  Executive  Vice  President
- - Human Resources)  ("Delegate"),  may amend, modify,
suspend  or  change  the  Program  from  time
to  time,  and the  Board  (or
its  Delegate) may terminate the Program at any time. Program
amendments may include,  but are not limited to, elimination or
reduction in the level or type of benefits provided to any class or classes of
employees. 

Section  9. 

        General
Provisions 

9.0      Named
Fiduciary.  The  Administrator is hereby designated as the
"named  fiduciary" under this Program. The named fiduciary shall have
authority  to control and manage the operation and administration of
this Program. 

9.1      Effective  Date.
The effective date of this Program shall be October 1, 1999. 

9.2      Calendar  Year  Program.  All
Program  records shall be maintained on a calendar-year basis,
beginning January 1 and ending December 31, except that
Program  records  for the year 1999 shall be maintained for
the period beginning October 1, 1999 and ending December 31, 1999. 

9.3      Notice
Under  Program.  Any notice to be given under this Program
shall be in  writing  and  shall be either
delivered  in person or mailed by United States
Mail,  first-class  postage pre-paid.  If notice
is to be given to the  Administrator  by mail, such notice
shall be addressed as
indicated  below  and  mailed  to
the  Administrator  at the  following
address: 

Executive
Vice President - Human Resources 

        AT T
Corp. 

        295 North
Maple Avenue 

        Basking
Ridge NJ 07920 

If
notice is to be given to a Participant,  Policyholder or Assignee by
United States Mail, such notice shall be addressed to the address
shown  as
such  Participant's,  Policyholder's  or
Assignee's  address then on  file with the Company's
Executive Human Resources Department. Any
party  may  change  the  address  to
which  notices  shall be mailed by giving written notice of
such change of address. 

9.4      Binding  Effect.  This  Program  shall
be  binding  upon the  Company's successors and
assigns, and upon the Participants, the Policyholders, and their Assignees,
Beneficiaries,  heirs, executors, and administrators. 

9.5      Welfare
Plan Under ERISA.  The Program is intended to constitute an "employee
welfare benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA, covering a
select group of management or highly compensated employees. 

9.6      Plan
Document.  This Program document is the plan document required by
ERISA.  The  information   contained  herein  provides  the  final  and  exclusive  statement  of
the  terms of
the  Program.  Unless  otherwise  authorized
by the Board or its delegate,  no amendment or  modification
to this Program shall be effective until reduced to writing and adopted pursuant
to Section 8.1. This document legally governs the operation of  the
Program,  and any claim of right
or  entitlement  under the Program shall be
determined  solely in accordance with its
provisions  pursuant  to
the  provisions  of  Section  7. To
the  extent  that  there are any
inconsistencies  between  the  terms  of
the  Insurance  Policy  or any
related  materials  and the terms of
this  document,  the terms of this
document  shall  control and govern the  operation
of the  Program. No other evidence, whether written or oral, shall be
taken into account in determining  the  right of
an  Eligible  Executive,  a  Participant,
a Policyholder,  a  Beneficiary  or an
Assignee,  as  applicable,  to any benefit of any
type provided under the Program. 

9.7      Governing  Law.
To the extent not preempted by applicable  federal law, the
Program  shall be  governed by
and  construed  and  interpreted  in
accordance  with the laws of the State of New
Jersey  (irrespective  of the choice of laws principles of
the State of New Jersey). 

9.8      Severability.  If
any  provision  of this  Program  or
the  application thereof  to
any  person  or  circumstance  shall  be
held by a court of
competent  jurisdiction  to  be  invalid  or  unenforceable
under any applicable law, such event  shall not affect or render
invalid or unenforceable  he remainder  of
the  Program and shall not affect the application  of
any  provision  of the Program to any
other  person or circumstance. 

9.9      Headings.  The
headings and subheadings preceding the Sections of this Program have
been  inserted solely as a matter of convenience and reference, and
shall not, in any manner, define or limit the scope or intent of any provision
of this Program. 

9.10     Procedural
Rules. The Administrator shall establish rules, forms and procedures for the
administration of this Program from time to time. 

9.11     Construction.  The
use of the singular form herein shall be deemed to include the plural form, and
vice versa, as appropriate. All references to Sections contained herein refer to
Sections of this Program, unless otherwise stated. The use of the words
"hereof," "herein," "hereunder," and words of similar import shall refer to this
entire Program, and not to
any  particular  Section,  subsection,  clause,  paragraph  or
other subdivision  of this  Program,  unless
the  context  clearly  indicates
otherwise.  The word "or" shall not be
exclusive;  "may  not"  is prohibitive and not
permissive. 

</EX-10.HHH>

<EX-10.HHH_I>
 33
 ex10hhh_1.htm
 AMENDMENT TO AT&T CORP SR MGMT UNIVERSAL LIFE INS PROGRAM

ex10hhh_1.htm 

Exhibit
hhh(i) 

AT T
CORP. 

      SENIOR
MANAGEMENT 

      UNIVERSAL
LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM 

      (amended
July 28, 2003) 

Section   8.                            
Amendment and Termination 

* * *
* 

8.2  Continued  Maintenance
of Program After Change in Control.  Notwithstanding any
other  provision  of the Program to
the  contrary  (including,  but not limited to
the  provisions  of Section 8.0 and Section 8.1), if a
Change in Control occurs,  the Company (or its
successor)  shall continue to maintain
the  Program  in  accordance  with
its  terms and  conditions  prior to the
occurrence  of the Change in
Control  (including,  but not  limited to, the
provisions  in Section 5.1 and Section 5.2 that require the Company to
make applicable premium payments and tax adjustment
payments,  respectively, and any amendment to such terms
and  conditions  that was duly adopted prior to the
occurrence of the Change in Control), without any material reduction in any
Program benefits, features or Participant or Policyholder rights, for a minimum
of two (2) years after the Change in Control occurs. 

8.3  Prohibition  on  Amendments  After
Change in Control.  Notwithstanding  any other provision of
the Program to the contrary (including,  but not limited to,
the  amendment  provisions  set forth in Section
8.0 and Section  8.1), unless  required
by  applicable  law,  after
the  occurrence of a Change in Control, no amendment shall be made by
the Board (or the successor board of directors),  a delegate, the
Company (or the successor of the Company), any committee,  any
officer,  any employee of the Company (or the  successor of
the Company) or by any other party,  to
suspend,  modify,  or eliminate the
Program  continuation  provisions set forth in Section 8.2,
or to eliminate the  restrictions  contained in this Section
8.3, and no such  amendment to the Program  made
in  violation  of this  Section  8.3
shall be  effective.  Nothing in Section 8.2 or
this  Section 8.3 shall be  construed to preclude
the  Company  (or the  successor  of
the  Company)  from  implementing  any
amendment to the Program that was duly adopted  prior to
the  occurrence of the Change in Control, but does not become
effective until after the Change in Control occurs. 

* * *
* 

</EX-10.HHH_I>

<EX-10.III>
 34
 ex10iii.htm
 AT&T CORP NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN

ex10iii.htm 

Exhibit
10-iii 

AT T
Corp. NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN 

As
Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1995 

AT T
NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN 

ARTICLE
1 

      PURPOSE 

This
AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan (the "Plan") is an Amendment and Restatement
of predecessor programs sponsored by the Company that where first adopted on
October 1, 1980, to provide supplemental pension, disability and death benefits
to certain employees of the Company. The Plan is intended to constitute an
unfunded plan of deferred compensation for a select group of management or
highly compensated employees for purposes of Title I of ERISA. 

ARTICLE
2 

      DEFINITIONS 

Whenever
used herein, the terms set forth below have the following meanings unless a
different meaning is clearly required by the context: 

2.01. 

"Active  Service"
      means the period of active employment but excluding any time the
      individual is absent on account of disability and receiving or eligible to
      receive sickness or accident disability benefits under the Company's
      Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit
Plan. 

2.02. 

"ADEA"
      means the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as it may be
      amended from time to time. 

2.03. 

"Adjusted
      Career Average Pay" as used in the Alternate Formula described in Section
      4.02(b), means (i) in the case of an Officer, the sum of A and B below
      divided by such Officer's Term of Employment and (ii) in the case of an
      E-band Employee, the amount described in B below divided by such E-band
      Employee's Term of Employment: 

A. 

the
      sum of (1) the average of an Officer's annual Short Term Incentive Awards
      and any salary amounts deferred under the AT T Senior Management
      Incentive Award Deferral Plan includable in the 1989 Base Period
      multiplied by his or her Term of Employment as of December 31, 1989 and
      (2) his or her Short Term
      Incentive  Awards  includable under the Basic Formula
      and any salary amounts deferred under the AT T Senior Management
      Incentive Award Deferral Plan for the period from January 1, 1990 to the
      date of retirement. 

B. 

the
      sum of (a) the product of (i) the Participant's average annual
      "Compensation" as defined in the Pension Plan for the 1992 Base Period and
      (ii) the Participant's Term of Employment as of December 31, 1992 and (b)
      the Participant's "Compensation" for the period from January 1, 1993 to
      the last day of his or her Term of
Employment. 

2 

2.04. 

"Administrator"
      means the person identified as the Pension Plan Administrator under the
      Pension Plan or such other person or entity designated by the
      Company. 

2.05. 

"Affiliated
      Corporation" means any corporation or other entity of which 50 percent or
      more of the voting stock is owned directly or indirectly by
      AT T. 

2.06. 

"AT T"
      or "Company" means AT T Corp. (formerly American Telephone and
      Telegraph Company), a New York Corporation, or its
    successors. 

2.07.              "1989
Base Period" means the period from January 1, 1987, to December  31,
1989. 

2.08.              "1992
Base Period" means the period from January 1, 1990, to December 31,
1992. 

2.09.              "Board"
means the Board of Directors of AT T. 

2.10. 

"Committee"
      means the Employees' Benefit Committee appointed by the Company to
      administer the Pension Plan. 

2.11. 

"Covered
      Compensation Base" means an amount which is the average of the maximum
      wage amounts on which an employee's liability for Social Security taxes
      were  determined for each year beginning with January 1, 1958
      and ending with the year in which the calculation is
  made. 

2.12. 

"Delegate"
      means the Board's authorized representative designated pursuant to a
      delegation of authority by the Board to act on behalf of or to perform one
      or more administrative responsibilities under the
  Plan. 

2.13. 

"E-band
      Employee" means any employee of a Participating Company employed in a
      position evaluated or classified as an "E-band" or equivalent position by
      the Company, except that no employee who is assigned to such a position on
      a temporary basis after being notified in writing of the temporary status
      of such assignment shall be an "E-band Employee" for any purpose under
      this Plan. 

2.14. 

"ERISA"
      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from
      time to time. 

2.15. 

"Long
      Term Disability Plan" means the AT T Senior Management Long Term
      Disability and Survivor Protection
Plan. 

3 

2.16. 

"Normal
      Retirement Age" means the Normal Retirement Age determined under the
      Pension Plan. 

2.17. 

"Officer"
      means any employee of a Participating Company holding a position evaluated
      or classified above the "E-band" level by the Company, except that no
      employee who is assigned to such a position on a temporary basis after
      being notified in writing of the temporary status of such assignment shall
      be an "Officer" for any purpose under this
Plan. 

2.18. 

"Participant"
      means an Officer who is eligible for a service pension, deferred vested
      pension or disability pension under the terms of the Pension Plan or an
      E-band Employee who is eligible for a  service pension under the
      terms of the Pension Plan. 

2.19. 

"Participating
      Company" means AT T and any Affiliated Corporation which has elected,
      with the approval of the Committee as required by Section 8.01, to
      participate in the Plan. 

2.20. 

"Pension
      Plan" means the AT T Management Pension Plan, as amended from time to
      time. 

2.21. 

"Pension
      Plan Benefit" means the annual pension benefit determined under the
      Pension Plan without regard to the limitations on covered compensation
      under Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the
      limitations on benefit accruals and payments under Section 415 of the
      Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and before any reduction in such pension
      benefit for the cost of a survivor annuity or for early
      retirement. 

2.22. 

"Plan"
      means this AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan, as set forth herein and as
      amended from time to time. 

2.23. 

"Position
      Rate" means an amount established periodically by the Company for each
      Officer position upon which base salaries are
  administered. 

2.24. 

"Short
      Term Incentive Award" means the actual amount awarded (including any
      amounts deferred pursuant to the AT T Senior Management Incentive
      Award Deferral Plan) annually to an Officer pursuant to the AT T Short
      Term Incentive Plan or predecessor short term incentive plans. Short Term
      Incentive Awards shall, for purposes of this Plan, be considered to be
      awarded on the last day of the performance period with respect to which
      they are earned. 

2.25. 

"Standard
      Award" means an amount determined periodically for each Position Rate
      under the AT T Short Term Incentive Plan or predecessor short term
      incentive plans. 

2.26. 

"Successor
      Plan Sponsor" means Lucent Technologies Inc. and any other corporation or
      entity that enters into an agreement or agreements providing for the
      assumption of liabilities arising under this Plan comparable to the
      Management Interchange Agreement dated as of April 8, 1996, and the
      Employee Benefits Agreement dated February 1, 1996, and amended and
      restated as of March 29, 1996, between AT T and Lucent Technologies
      Inc. 

4 

2.27. 

"Term
      of Employment" means the period of employment described in Section 2.38 of
      the Pension Plan and, unless expressly limited by the context, shall also
      mean the number of full or partial calendar years comprising Years of
      Service as defined in Section 2.39 of the Pension
  Plan. 

2.28. 

"Total
      Compensation" As used in the Alternate Minimum Formula described in
      Section 4.02(c) means the sum of (i) the elements of Compensation as
      defined in Section 4.2(f) of the Pension Plan, (ii) salary amounts
      deferred under the AT T Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral
      Plan, and (iii) Short Term Incentive
Awards. 

2.29. 

"Transition
      Participant" means a Participant as to  whom the responsibility
      and liability for the payment of benefits accrued or payable under this
      Plan has been assumed by a Successor Plan
  Sponsor. 

ARTICLE
3 

      PARTICIPATION
AND ELIGIBILITY 

3.01.              Participation. 

All
      Officers and E-band Employees who meet the criteria set forth in Section
      2.18 shall be eligible to participate in this
  Plan. 

3.02.              Eligibility. 

(a) 

Service
      Benefit. Each Participant who is eligible for a service pension pursuant
      to the terms of the Pension Plan (excluding for purposes of this Section
      3.02(a) the effect of any management pension enhancement pursuant to
      Section 4.2(h) of the Pension Plan) and who meets the relevant
      requirements of Article 4 shall be eligible for a service benefit pursuant
      to this Plan. 

(b)        Deferred
Benefit. 

(i) 

Except
      as otherwise specified in Sections 4.04 and 4.05, an Officer who is
      eligible for a deferred vested pension pursuant to the terms and
      conditions of the Pension Plan is eligible for a deferred benefit pursuant
      to this Plan. 

(ii) 

An
      Officer who leaves the service of a Participating Company and who has
      elected to have his or her deferred vested pension payable early in
      reduced amounts pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan
      shall be deemed to have elected to have his or her deferred benefits under
      this Plan payable early in reduced amounts under the same terms and
      conditions as set forth in the Pension Plan. In the event of such an
      election, the amount of deferred benefit otherwise payable at Normal
      Retirement Age under this Plan to such participant shall be reduced in
      accordance with the same formulas  as are set forth in the
      Pension Plan for the discounting of the deferred vested
      pension. 

5 

(iii) 

The
      Committee, the Administrator or a Delegate, as appropriate, shall notify
      each Officer who leaves the employment of such Participating Company
      (except to take employment without a break in service with another
      Participating Company or other Affiliated Corporation) of his or her
      eligibility, if any, for a deferred benefit by mailing, within a
      reasonable time after his or her leaving, a notice to his or her last
      known address as shown on the Participating Company's
    records. 

(c) 

Disability
      Benefit. A Participant who, while an Officer, has become eligible for a
      Disability Pension pursuant to Section 4.1(c) of the
      Pension  Plan shall be eligible for a Disability Benefit
      hereunder. Should the Disability Pension be discontinued (other than by
      reason of conversion to a Service Pension) pursuant to the terms of the
      Pension Plan, the Disability Benefit hereunder shall be discontinued as
      well. 

(d)        Contingent
Benefits. 

(i) 

An
      Officer who, on or after January 1, 1986, is reassigned to a position
      evaluated below the E-band level for reasons other than unsatisfactory
      performance, and who has satisfied the vesting requirements of Section
      3.02(a) or Section 3.02(b) of this Plan as of the reassignment date, will
      be eligible for Officer benefits upon his or her termination of employment
      provided he or she is then eligible for either a service pension under
      Section 4.1(a) or a deferred vested pension under Section 4.1(b) of the
      Pension Plan. The determination of the amount of such former Officer's
      benefits will be based on his or her Term of Employment completed as of
      the reassignment date and shall be computed in accordance with Section
      4.02(a) in effect on such date. 

(ii) 

An
      Officer who, on or after January 1, 1986, is reassigned to a position
      evaluated below the E-band, and who has not satisfied the vesting
      requirements of this Plan as of the reassignment date, will not be
      eligible for benefits under this Plan upon his or her termination of
      employment. 

(iii) 

An
      Officer who, on or after January 1, 1986, is reassigned to a position
      evaluated at the E-band level for reasons other than unsatisfactory
      performance, and who has satisfied the vesting requirements of Section
      3.02(a) or Section 3.02(b) of this Plan as of the reassignment date shall
      be eligible for a benefit (A) under Section 3.02(a), if such Officer is
      eligible for a service pension under Section 4.1(a) of the Pension Plan on
      the last day of his or her Term of Employment or (B) under Section
      3.02(b), if such Officer is not eligible for a service pension under
      Section 4.1(a) of the Pension Plan on the last day of his or her Term of
      Employment. The benefit of any reassigned Officer described in this
      Section 3.02(d)(iii)(A) shall be computed based on his or her Term of
      Employment and in accordance with Section 4.02(b) in effect on the last
      day of such Term of Employment. The benefit of any reassigned Officer
      described in this Section 3.02(d)(iii)(B) shall be computed based on his
      or her Term of Employment completed as of the last day of the year in
      which his or her job is reclassified and in accordance with Section
      4.02(a) in effect as of the date of such
  reassignment. 

6 

(iv) 

A
      Participant, other than an Officer whose job is classified or reclassified
      during or after 1986 to a level below E-band will be eligible for the
      service benefit described in Section 3.02(a) and computed in accordance
      with Section 4.02(b) based on his or her Term of Employment completed as
      of the last day of 1988 or if later, the last day of the year in which his
      or her job is reclassified and based on the provisions of the Plan in
      effect on such day, provided he or she is then eligible for a service
      pension under the Pension Plan, and further provided he or she is not
      demoted subsequent to such day because of unsatisfactory job performance
      prior to retiring under the Pension
Plan. 

ARTICLE
4 

      PENSION
BENEFITS 

4.01.              Benefit
Eligibility. 

(a) 

Officers.
      The following provisions govern the eligibility for benefits of Officers
      whose retirement date is on or after December 31,
  1993. 

(i) 

The
      benefit of an Officer who had at least five Years of Service as an Officer
      as of December 31, 1993 will be the greater of the annual benefit amounts
      determined under the Basic Formula, the Alternate Formula or the Alternate
      Minimum Formula described in Sections 4.02(a), (b) and (c)
      respectively. 

(ii) 

The
      benefit of an Officer who is not described in Section 4.01(a)(i) but who
      is eligible for a service pension under Section 4.1(a) of the Pension Plan
      as of the last day of his or her Term of Employment will be the greater of
      the annual benefit amounts under the Basic Formula or the Alternate
      Formula described in Sections 4.02(a) and (b)
  respectively. 

(iii) 

The
      benefit of an Officer who is not described in Sections 4.01(a)(i) or (ii)
      but who is eligible for a deferred vested pension under Section 4.1(b) or
      a disability pension under Section 4.1(c) the Pension Plan as of the last
      day of his or her Term of Employment will be the amount determined under
      the Basic Formula described in Section
4.02(a). 

7 

(iv) 

The
      benefit payable to the surviving lawful spouse of an Officer shall be
      determined in accordance with Section 4.02(d)(i), if the Officer is an
      employee at the time of death and in accordance with Sections 4.02(d)(ii)
      and (iii), if the Officer is not an employee at the time of
      death. 

(b) 

E-band
      Employees. The annual service benefit of an E-band Employee whose
      retirement date is on or after October 19, 1993, will be the amount
      computed under the Alternate Formula described in Section 4.02(b). The
      benefit payable to the surviving lawful spouse of an E-band Employee shall
      be determined in accordance with Section 4.02(d)(i), if the E-band
      Employee is an employee at the time of death. The formulas for computing
      the pension benefits of an E-band Employee whose employment terminated
      prior to October 19, 1993, are shown in Appendix
  A. 

4.02.              Benefit
Formulas. 

(a) 

Basic
      Formula. The annual service or disability benefit under the Basic Formula
      shall be determined by adding (A) the product of one and five-tenths
      percent (1.5%) of the average annual Short Term Incentive Awards for the
      1989 Base Period and the Officer's Term of Employment as of December 31,
      1989, and (B) the sum of one and six-tenths percent (1.6%) of the Short
      Term Incentive Award for each successive full or partial calendar year of
      employment following 1989. 

(i) 

Early
      Retirement Discount. The monthly service benefit, determined in accordance
      with the Basic Formula of this Section 4.02(a), for each Officer who is
      granted a service benefit for reasons other than total disability as a
      result of sickness or injury, shall be reduced by one-half percent (0.5%)
      for each calendar month or part thereof by which his or her age at time
      benefits are first paid under this Plan is less than fifty-five (55)
      years, except that each Officer retired with thirty (30) or more years of
      service shall receive a monthly benefit allowance reduced by one-quarter
      percent (0.25%) for each calendar month or part thereof by which such
      Officer's age at the time benefits are first paid under this Plan is less
      than fifty-five (55) years. 

(ii) 

Deferred
      Benefit Amount. The monthly benefit for each Officer eligible for a
      deferred benefit under the provisions of Section 3.02(b)  shall
      be calculated exclusively in accordance with the provisions specified as
      applicable to those receiving a benefit under this Section 4.02(a)
      effective as of the date such Officer leaves the service of a
      Participating Company. 

(iii) 

An
      Officer who leaves the service of a Participating Company with eligibility
      for a deferred benefit in accordance with Section 3.02(b) but who is not
      entitled to any other class of pension or benefit under this Plan shall
      not be considered a retiree pursuant to the Pension Plan or a retired
      Officer. 

(b) 

Alternate
      Formula. The annual benefit under the Alternate Formula shall be the
      excess of B over A, where A equals the Participant's Pension Plan Benefit
      and B equals the product of one and seven-tenths percent (1.7%) of the
      Participant's Adjusted Career Average Pay, less eight-tenths of one
      percent (0.8%) of the Participant's Covered Compensation Base, and the
      Participant's Term of Employment. The service benefit under this Alternate
      Formula will be reduced in case of retirement before age 60 by applying
      the appropriate reduction factor from the Table of such factors shown in
      Appendix C to such benefit. 

8 

(c) 

Alternate
      Minimum Formula. The annual benefit under the Alternate Minimum Formula in
      this Section 4.02(c) shall be an amount equal to (A) the product of the
      greater of the amount determined under Formula A or the amount determined
      under Formula B, multiplied by the applicable factor set forth in Appendix
      B, less (B) the amount of the Officer's Pension Plan
    Benefit. 

(i) 

Formula
      A. For purposes of the Alternate Minimum Formula in this Section 4.02(c),
      Formula A means the sum of (a) the product of one and five tenths percent
      (1.5%) of average calendar year Total Compensation for the 1992 Base
      Period and the Term of Employment as of December 31, 1992 and (b) one and
      six tenths percent (1.6%)of Total Compensation for the calendar year 1993
      actuarially reduced in case of retirement before age 55 by applying the
      appropriate reduction factor set forth in Section
    4.02(a)(i). 

(ii) 

Formula
      B. For purposes of this Alternate Minimum Formula in this Section 4.02(c),
      Formula B means the product of (a) the excess of one and seven tenths
      percent (1.7%) of Adjusted Career Average Pay, over eight tenths of one
      percent (0.8%) of the Covered Compensation Base, and (b) the Officer's
      Term of Employment at December 31, 1993, reduced in case of retirement
      before age 60 by applying the appropriate reduction factor set forth in
      Appendix C. 

(d)        Automatic
Survivor Annuities. 

(i) 

Before-Retirement.
      In the event of the death of an active Participant whose Term of
      Employment includes at least fifteen years or who is eligible for a
      service benefit under Section 4.02(a) at the time of his or her death and
      who leaves a surviving lawful spouse, such surviving lawful spouse shall
      receive, effective on the day following the date of death, a survivor
      annuity in the amount of forty five percent (45%) of the benefit which
      would have been payable had such Participant retired with a service
      benefit, regardless of his or her actual eligibility therefor, on the date
      of his or her death. For purposes of the automatic survivor annuity
      provided in this Section 4.02(d)(i), the early retirement discounts in
      Sections 4.02(a)(i) and 4.02 (b)(i) shall not
  apply. 

(ii) 

Post-Retirement.
      Upon the death of an Officer receiving a service or disability benefit
      under this Plan who retired on or after December 31, 1986 or retired prior
      to that date but had not reached age 55 on or before December 31, 1983, a
      survivor annuity in the amount of 45% of such retired Officer's monthly
      benefit amount will be payable beginning on the day following the date of
      his or her death to the surviving lawful spouse of such retired
      Officer. 

9 

(iii) 

Post-Retirement
      Transition Cases. In the case of a deceased Officer who retired prior to
      December 31, 1987, the survivor annuity payable under Section 4.02(d)(ii)
      above, shall be increased by the amount required, if any, to bring the
      total monthly survivor annuity payable under this Plan to an amount
      computed by multiplying the product of the average of such Officer's
      Standard Awards for a maximum of six (6) years prior to his or her
      retirement year and sixty-five hundredths percent (0.65%) by his or her
      Term of Employment, and dividing the result by twelve (12); the Standard
      Awards includable in this computation cannot exceed sixty percent (0.60%)
      of such Officer's Position Rate. 

(e) 

Special
      Increases. Service and disability benefit payments, as determined under
      Sections 4.02(a) and (b), of retired Officers and service benefit
      payments, as determined under Section 4.02(b), of retired E-band
      Employees, and survivor annuities in pay status under Sections 4.02(d)(i),
      (d)(ii), and (d)(iii) shall be increased by the same percentage and
      pursuant to the same terms and conditions as are set forth for comparable
      payments, from time to time, in the Pension
  Plan. 

4.03.              Monthly
Payments. 

The
      annual benefit  determined under this Article 4 shall be divided
      by twelve (12) and shall be payable monthly or at such other periods as
      the Committee or the Administrator, as applicable, may determine in each
      case. 

4.04.              Commencement
and Duration of Payments 

(i) 

Subject
      to the exception set forth in paragraph (ii) herein, benefits granted
      under this Plan shall commence on the date the benefits under the Pension
      Plan are first paid to the Participant and shall, except for the reasons
      specified in Sections 3.02(c), 4.05 and 9.12, continue to the death of the
      recipient. 

(ii) 

Any
      benefit payable to an Officer pursuant to Section 4.02(c) who had at least
      five Years of Service as an Officer as of December 31, 1993 and as to whom
      the sum of his or her attained age and Term of Employment equaled or
      exceeded seventy (70) as of that date shall be payable as of the last day
      of his or her Term of Employment and shall, except for the reasons
      specified in Section 4.05 and Section 9.12, continue to his or her
      death. 

(iii) 

Benefit
      amounts accrued and payable under this Article 4 but not actually paid at
      the time of death of a Participant shall be paid in accordance with the
      standards and procedures set forth in the Pension
  Plan. 

4.05.              Treatment
During Subsequent Employment. 

10 

When
      a Participant's Term of Employment includes service with more than one
      Participating Company or with a company that is not a Participating
      Company, the last Participating Company to employ him or her immediately
      prior to his or her retirement or termination of employment with
      entitlement to a benefit hereunder shall be responsible for the full
      benefit under this Plan. Employment with any Participating Company
      subsequent to retirement or termination of employment with entitlement to
      any type of benefit under this Plan shall result in the permanent
      suspension of the benefit for the period of such employment or
      reemployment to the extent and in a manner consistent with the terms and
      conditions applicable to the suspension of benefit payments under the
      Pension Plan. Payment of a Participant's benefit under this Plan shall
      resume simultaneously with the recommencement of his or her benefits under
      the Pension Plan. Following recommencement of payment under this Plan, the
      Participant (or surviving lawful spouse) shall not be eligible to receive
      any payments under this Plan that would otherwise have been payable but
      for the suspension. 

4.06.              Method
and Form of Payment. 

Payments
      under this Article 4 shall be made in the same manner as set forth under
      the Pension Plan. 

ARTICLE
5 

      DEATH
BENEFITS 

5.01.              Participation. 

Upon
      the death of an active Officer or an Officer who, on or after August 10,
      1980, retires on a service or disability pension under the Pension Plan
      (excluding for purposes of this Section 5.01 the effect of any management
      pension enhancement pursuant to Section 4.2(h) of the Pension Plan) or who
      terminates employment with eligibility to receive payments under the Long
      Term Disability Plan, a Death Benefit shall be provided under this Article
      5. The Death Benefits under this Article 5 are in addition to the
      accident, sickness and pensioner death benefits under the Death Benefit
      Plan in the Pension Plan and shall be paid to the same beneficiary or
      beneficiaries and administered in the same manner as such benefits under
      the Pension Plan. 

5.02.              Death
Benefits. 

(a) 

Primary
      Death Benefit.  In the case of the death of an Officer described
      in Section 5.01 a benefit equal to one year's wages shall be
      paid. 

(i) 

Death
      Prior to June 1, 1991. For purposes of determining the benefit payable
      under this Section 5.02(a) with respect to an Officer who dies on or after
      August 10, 1980 but prior to June 1, 1991, one year's wages is defined as
      the lesser of the Officer's Standard Award in effect as of the earlier of
      his or her retirement date, termination date or date of death, or the
      percentage shown below of his or her Position Rate as of the earlier of
      such dates: 

11 

Percentage 

Retirement, Termination or
Death :                                                                                                       of Position
Rate  

On or After September 30, 1983
through May 31, 1991                                 60% 

October 31, 1981 through September
29,
1983                                                                             50% 

August 10, 1980 through October 30,
1981                                                                                  15% 

(ii) 

Death
      On or After June 1, 1991. For purposes of determining the benefit payable
      under this  Section 5.02(a) with respect to an Officer who dies
      on or after June 1, 1991, one year's wages is defined as the greater of
      (A) his or her Short Term Award for the calendar year preceding the
      earlier of his or her date of death or date of retirement, or (B) the
      Officer's Short  Term Award payable with respect to any later
      partial calendar year period of
service. 

b) 

Other
      Post-Retirement Death Benefits. An additional death benefit described in
      this Section 5.02(b) shall be provided under this Plan in the case of an
      Officer who retires on a service or disability Pension under the Pension
      Plan after December 31, 1986, or before such date provided he or she did
      not attain age 55 on or before December 31, 1983. The death benefits under
      Section 5.02(b)(ii) are provided also in the case of an Officer who
      terminates employment with entitlement to Long Term Disability Plan
      payments. 

(i) 

Group
      Life Differential. Upon the death of an Officer age 66 or older who
      retired after December 31, 1986, and before October 1, 1990, the
      difference between the amount of his or her Basic Group Life Insurance
      under the Company's Group Life Insurance Program which was in effect on
      the day before his or her sixty-sixth (66) birthday and the amount of such
      insurance in effect on the date of his or her death shall be paid in a
      lump sum to a beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Officer, or,
      if there is no such beneficiary, to the Officer's
  Estate. 

(ii) 

Tax
      Differential. An individual who is the beneficiary of a deceased retired
      Officer or an Officer who terminated employment with entitlement to Long
      Term Disability payments and who receives one or more of the benefits
      listed below, shall be eligible to receive, under this Section
      5.02(b)(ii), a tax differential payment related to the difference between
      the beneficiary's assumed Federal Income tax liability on such benefit or
      benefits and the beneficiary's assumed Federal Income Tax liability had
      such benefit or benefits been funded by the proceeds of a life insurance
      policy on the life of the retired
Officer: 

12 

(A)            Post-Retirement
Survivo Annuity described in Section 4.02(d)(ii), 

(B)            Pensioner
Death Benefit described in Section 5.02(a), 

(C)           Group
Life Differential Death Benefit described in Section 5.02(b)(i), 

(D) 

Pensioner
      Death Benefit described in Paragraph 3 of Section 5 of the Pension Plan,
      and 

(E)         The
Death Benefit described in Section 5 of the Long Term Disability
Plan. 

Federal
Estate Tax and state and local inheritance or income taxes shall not be
considered in computing the tax differential payment under this Section
5.02(b)(ii). 

ARTICLE
6 

      SOURCE OF
PAYMENT 

6.01.              Source
of Payments. 

AT T
      may establish a trust to hold assets to be used to make benefit payments
      under the terms of this Plan, provided such trust does not cause the Plan
      to be "funded" within the meaning of ERISA. Funds invested hereunder
      shall, for purposes of this Plan, be considered to be part of the general
      assets of the Participating Company which invested the funds, and no
      Participant, beneficiary or lawful spouse shall have any interest or right
      in such funds. To the extent trust assets are available, they may be used
      to pay benefits arising under this Plan and all costs, charges and
      expenses relating thereto. To the extent that the funds held in the trust
      are insufficient to pay such benefits, costs, charges and expenses,
      AT T or the responsible Participating Company shall pay such benefits,
      costs, charges and expenses from its general assets. In addition, AT T
      may, in its sole discretion, direct that payments required under this Plan
      to any Participant or surviving lawful spouse be made through the purchase
      and distribution of one or more nontransferable annuity contracts or cause
      the trustee of the trust to purchase and distribute such annuity
      contracts. Any such purchase and distribution of an annuity contract shall
      be a full and complete discharge of the Plan's, AT T's and the
      Participating Companies' liability for payments assumed by the issuer of
      the annuity contract. Further, the Senior Vice President, Human Resources,
      may determine, in his sole discretion, to pay additional sums to any
      Senior Manager, from the Company's general assets or from the trust, if
      any, to reimburse the Senior Manager for additional federal and state
      income taxes estimated to be incurred by reason of the distribution of any
      such annuity contracts. The Senior Vice President, Human Resources shall
      establish a methodology or methodologies for determining the amount of
      such additional sums. The methodology or methodologies selected shall be
      those that the Senior Vice President, Human Resources determines, in his
      sole discretion, to be the most effective and administratively feasible
      for the purpose of producing after tax periodic benefit payments that
      approximate the after tax periodic benefit payments that would have been
      received by Senior Managers in the absence of the distribution of the
      annuity contract. 

13 

6.02.              Unfunded
Status. 

The
      Plan at all times shall be entirely unfunded for purposes of the Internal
      Revenue Code of 1986 and ERISA, and, except as provided in Section 6.01,
      no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating any
      assets of a Participating Company for payment of any benefits hereunder.
      The Plan constitutes a mere promise by the Participating Company to make
      payments, if any, in the future. No Participant, surviving lawful spouse
      or any other person shall have any interest in any particular assets of a
      Participating Company by reason of the right to receive a benefit under
      the Plan and to the extent the Participant, surviving lawful spouse or any
      other person acquires a right to receive benefits under this Plan, such
      right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor
      of a Participating Company. 

ARTICLE
7 

      ADMINISTRATION
OF THE PLAN 

7.01.              Administration
and Authorities. 

The
      Plan shall be administered by the Company and it shall have full
      discretionary authority to manage and control the operation and
      administration of the Plan, including the power to interpret provisions of
      the Plan, make determinations of fact, promulgate rules and regulations,
      determine benefit eligibility of individual and classes of Participants
      (including, without limitation, determinations of a Participant's
      applicable Term of Employment, Position Rate and rate of pay), delegate
      its powers and duties hereunder to the Committee, the Administrator or
      others and take such other action as it shall find necessary and
      appropriate to implement the provisions of the Plan. The Committee and the
      Administrator may retain attorneys, consultants, accountants or other
      persons (who may be employees of the Company or an Affiliated
      Corporation)  to render advice and assistance and may delegate
      any of the authorities conferred on it to such persons as it shall
      determine to be appropriate to effect the discharge of its duties
      hereunder. The Company, the Affiliated Corporations and any of their
      Officers and E-band Employees shall be entitled to rely upon the advice,
      opinions, and determinations of any such persons. Any exercise of the
      authorities  set forth in this Section, whether by the Company,
      the Committee or its Delegate, or the Administrator, shall be final and
      binding upon the Company, its Affiliated Corporations, their officers,
      directors and affected Participants and
  beneficiaries. 

7.02.              Committee. 

14 

The
      Company has delegated to the Committee authority to make the final
      determination to grant or deny claims for benefits under the Plan with
      respect to Participants, surviving lawful spouses, and other beneficiaries
      and to authorize disbursements according to the terms of the
      Plan. 

7.03.              Indemnification. 

No
      member of the Board, the Committee or the Administrator shall be
      personally liable by reason of any contract or other instrument executed
      by such individual or on his or her behalf in his or her capacity as a
      member of the Board, Committee or the Administrator nor for any mistake of
      judgment made in good faith, and AT T shall indemnify and hold
      harmless each member of the Board, each member of the Committee, the
      Administrator and each other employee, officer, or director of AT T or
      any Participating Company to whom any duty or power relating to the
      administration or interpretation of the Plan may be allocated or
      delegated, against any cost or expense (including attorneys' fees) or
      liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim) arising out of
      any act or omission to act in connection with the Plan unless arising out
      of such person's own fraud or bad
faith. 

7.04.              Benefit
Claims and Appeals 

(a) 

Benefit
      Claims. All claims for benefit payments under the Plan shall be submitted
      in writing by Participants to the person designated by the Company to make
      determinations as to eligibility for benefits under the Plan and such
      person shall notify the Participant in writing within 90 days after
      receipt as to whether the claim has been granted or denied. This period
      may be extended for up to an additional 90 days in unusual cases provided
      that written notice of the extension is furnished to the claimant prior to
      the commencement of the extension. In the event the claim is denied, such
      notice shall (i) set forth the specific reason or reasons for denial, (ii)
      make reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is
      based, (iii) describe any additional material or information necessary
      before the Participant's request may be acted upon favorably, and (iv)
      explain the procedure for appealing the adverse
    determination. 

(b)   

Benefit
      Appeals. A Participant whose claim for benefits has been denied may,
      within 60 days of receipt of any adverse benefit determination, appeal
      such denial to the Committee. All appeals shall be in the form of a
      written statement and shall (i) set forth all of the reasons in support of
      favorable action on the appeal, (ii) identify those provisions of the Plan
      upon which the claimant is relying, and (iii) include copies of any other
      documents or materials which may support favorable consideration of the
      claim. The Committee shall decide the issues presented within 60 days
      after receipt of such request, but this period may be extended for up to
      an additional 60 days in unusual cases provided that written notice of the
      extension is furnished to the claimant prior to the commencement of the
      extension. The decision of the Committee shall be set forth in writing,
      include specific reasons for the decision, refer to pertinent Plan
      provisions on which the decision is based, and shall be final and binding
      on all persons affected thereby. 

15 

ARTICLE
8 

      Adoption,
Amendment and Termination 

8.01.              Adoption
of Plan. 

Any
      Affiliated Corporation that participates in the Pension Plan may, with the
      consent of the Committee, elect to participate in the Plan. Such
      Affiliated Corporation shall become a Participating Company as of the date
      specified by the Committee in its resolution approving the participation
      of the Affiliated Corporation in the
Plan. 

AT T
      is the Sponsor of the Plan and the Board or its Delegate, may from time to
      time amend, modify or change the Plan as set forth in this document, and
      the Board or its Delegate (acting pursuant to the Board's delegations of
      authority then in effect) may terminate the Plan at any time. Plan
      amendments may include, but are not limited to, elimination or reduction
      in the level or type of benefits provided to any class or classes of
      Participant (and surviving lawful spouses). Any and all Plan amendments
      may be made without the consent of any Participant, surviving lawful
      spouse or beneficiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment,
      suspension or termination shall retroactively impair or otherwise
      adversely affect the rights of any Participant or surviving lawful spouse
      to benefits under the Plan to which they have previously become entitled
      as a result of a Participant's satisfaction of the vesting schedule of
      this Plan which is the same as and never will be greater than the vesting
      schedule under the Pension Plan. 

8.03.              Sale,
Spin-Off, or Other Disposition of Participating Company. 

(a) 

Subject
      to Section 9.01 of this Plan, in the event AT T sells, spins off, or
      otherwise disposes of an Affiliated Corporation, or disposes of all or
      substantially all of the assets of an Affiliated Corporation such that one
      or more Participants terminate employment for the purposes of accepting
      employment with the purchaser of such stock or assets, any person employed
      by such Affiliated Corporation who ceases to be an employee of the Company
      or an Affiliated Corporation as a result of the sale, spin-off, or
      disposition shall be deemed to have terminated his or her employment with
      a Participating Company for all relevant purposes under this
      Plan. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding
      the foregoing provisions of this Section 8.03, and subject to Section 9.01
      of this Plan, if the sale, spin-off, or other disposition of the stock or
      assets of an Affiliated Corporation is to a Successor Plan Sponsor with
      the effect that a Participant is or becomes a Transition Participant, the
      Successor Plan Sponsor shall be solely liable for the payment of the
      pension and death benefits described in this Plan, and the entitlement of
      the Transition Participant or his or her surviving lawful spouse or
      beneficiary to benefits under this Plan shall terminate. A Transition
      Participant shall not be considered to have terminated his or her
      employment with AT T or a Participating Company for any purpose under
      this Plan. 

16 

ARTICLE
9 

      GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

9.01.              Binding
Effect. 

The
      Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Participating
      Company and its successors and assigns, and each Participant, employee,
      his or her successors, assigns, designees, spouse, and estate. The Plan
      shall also be binding upon any successor corporation or organization
      succeeding to substantially all of the assets and business of AT T,
      but nothing in the Plan shall preclude AT T from merging or
      consolidating into or with, or transferring all or substantially all of
      its assets to, another corporation which assumes the Plan and all
      obligations of AT T hereunder. AT T agrees that it will make
      appropriate provision for the preservation of the rights of Participants,
      employees and surviving lawful spouses under the Plan in any agreement or
      plan or reorganization into which it may enter to effect any merger,
      consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets. Upon such a merger,
      consolidation, reorganization, or transfer of assets and assumption that
      results in a Participant continuing to be employed by the Company or an
      Affiliated Corporation, the term "Participating Company" shall refer to
      such other corporation and the Plan shall continue in full force and
      effect as to that Participant and his or her lawful spouse or other
      beneficiary. 

Nothing
      contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of
      the Plan, shall create or be construed to create a trust or contract of
      any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between or among AT T, any other
      Participating Company, any Affiliated Corporation, the Board, the
      Administrator, the Committee, any Participant, employee, any surviving
      lawful spouse or any other person. 

9.03.              No
Guarantee of Employment. 

Neither
      the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as (i) a
      contract of employment or deemed to give any employee the right to be
      retained in the employment of a Participating Company, the right to any
      level of compensation, or the right to future participation in the Plan;
      or (ii) affecting the right of the Participating Company to discharge or
      dismiss any employee at any time. 

9.04.              Tax
Withholding. 

17 

AT T
      shall withhold all federal, state, local or other taxes required by law to
      be withheld from payments or accruals under the
  Plan. 

9.05.              Assignment
of Benefits. 

The
      benefits payable hereunder or the right to receive future benefits under
      the Plan may not be anticipated, alienated, sold, transferred, assigned,
      pledged, executed upon, encumbered, or subjected to any charge or legal
      process; no interest or right to receive a benefit may be taken, either
      voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or
      other obligations or claims against, such person or entity, including
      without limitation, any judgment or claim for alimony, support or separate
      maintenance pursuant to a domestic relations order within the meaning of
      Section 206(d)(3) of ERISA and claims in bankruptcy proceedings. Any such
      attempted disposition shall be null and
void. 

If
      the Administrator shall find that any person to whom any amount is or was
      payable under the Plan is unable to care for his or her affairs because of
      illness or accident, then any payment, or any part thereof, due to such
      person (unless a prior claim therefor has been made by a duly appointed
      legal representative), may, if the Administrator so directs AT T, be
      paid to the same person or institution that the benefits with respect to
      such person are paid under the Pension Plan if applicable, or to the
      Participant's surviving lawful spouse, a child, a relative, an institution
      maintaining or having custody of such person, or to any other person
      deemed by the Administrator to be a proper recipient on behalf of such
      person otherwise entitled to payment. Any such payment shall be in
      complete discharge of the liability of AT T, the Board, the Committee,
      the Administrator, and the Participating Company therefor. If any payment
      to which a Participant or beneficiary is entitled under this Plan is
      unclaimed or otherwise not subject to payment to the person or persons so
      entitled, such amounts representing such payment or payments shall be
      forfeited after a period of two years from the date the first such payment
      was payable and shall not escheat to any state or revert to any party;
      provided, however, that any such payment or payments shall be restored if
      any person otherwise entitled to such payment or payments makes a valid
      claim. 

If
      any section, clause, phrase, provision or portion of this Plan or the
      application thereof to any person or circumstance shall be invalid or
      unenforceable under any applicable law, such event shall not affect or
      render invalid or unenforceable the remainder of this Plan and shall not
      affect the application of any section, clause, provision, or portion
      hereof to other persons or
circumstances. 

18 

This
      Plan first became effective for Officers actively employed on or after
      October 1, 1980 and for E-band Employees actively employed on or after on
      January 1, 1984 and is amended and restated effective January 1,
      1995. 

For
      purposes of administering the Plan, the plan year shall begin on January 1
      and end on December 31. 

The
      captions of the preceding sections and articles hereof have been inserted
      solely as a matter of convenience and shall not in any manner define or
      limit the scope or intent of any provision of the
  Plan. 

9.11.            Governing
Law. 

To
      the extent such laws are not preempted by the laws of the United States of
      America, the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of New
      Jersey, except as to its principles of conflict of
  laws. 

9.12.            Forfeiture
of Benefits. 

Except
      as provided in this  Section 9.12 and Section 3.02, benefits
      previously awarded may not be canceled and, upon attaining the right under
      the Plan for an immediate service benefit or deferred benefit or for an
      automatic survivor annuity, such right shall be nonforfeitable.
      Notwithstanding any eligibility or entitlement to benefits of an
      individual arising or conferred under any other provision or paragraph of
      this Plan, all benefits for which a Participant would otherwise be
      eligible hereunder may be forfeited, at the discretion of the Board or the
      Committee, if an individual without the Company's consent establishes a
      relationship with a competitor of the Company or engages in activity in
      conflict with or adverse to the interests of the Company under the
      standards of the AT T Non-Competition Guideline and as determined by
      the Board or the Committee in its sole
  discretion. 

If
      an employee who has left the service of a Participating Company has
      elected to continue receiving disability benefits which he or she had been
      receiving prior to his or her termination and to defer receiving pension
      payments under the Pension Plan to which he or she is eligible, benefits
      under the Plan shall be deferred until such time as the employee begins to
      receive payments under the Pension
Plan. 

9.14.            Special
Classification. 

19 

For
      purposes of the Plan, the determination of those causes of death not
      classified as due to accident shall be accomplished in the same manner as
      set forth in the Pension Plan. 

9.15.            Claims
Release. 

In
      case of accident resulting in the death of a Participant which entitles
      his or her beneficiaries or his or her annuitant to death benefits under
      the Plan, such beneficiaries or annuitant shall, prior to the payment of
      any such benefits, sign a release, releasing the Company or other
      Participating Companies, as applicable, from all claims and demands which
      the deceased had and which his or her beneficiaries or his or her
      annuitant may have against them, otherwise than under the Plan, on account
      of such accident. If any persons other than the beneficiaries under this
      Plan might legally assert claims against a Participating Company on
      account of the death of the individual, no part of the death benefit under
      the Plan shall be due or payable until there have also been delivered to
      the Committee or the Administrator, as applicable, good and sufficient
      releases of all claims, arising from or growing out of the death of the
      individual, which such other persons might legally assert against any
      Participating Company. The Committee or the Administrator, as applicable,
      in its discretion, may require that the releases described above shall
      release any other company connected with the accident, including the
      Company or any other Participating Company, as applicable. This
      requirement of a release or releases shall not apply in the case of
      Survivor Annuities as described in Section
  4.02(d). 

9.16.            Damage
Claims or Suits. 

Should
      a claim other than under the Plan be presented or suit brought against the
      Company or any Participating Company for damages on account of death of a
      Participant, nothing shall be payable under the Plan on account of such
      death except as provided in Section 9.17; provided, however, that the
      Committee or the Administrator, as applicable, may, in its discretion and
      upon such terms as it may prescribe, waive this provision if such claim be
      withdrawn or if such suit be discontinued; and provided further that this
      provision shall not preclude the payment of Survivor Annuities as
      described in Section 4.02(d). 

In
      case any judgment is recovered against any Participating Company or any
      settlement is made of any claim or suit on account of the death of a
      Participant, and the amount paid to the beneficiaries who would have
      received benefits under the Plan is less than what would otherwise have
      been payable under the Plan, the difference between the two amounts may,
      in the discretion of the Committee or the Administrator, as applicable, be
      distributed to such beneficiaries. 

9.18.            Payment
under Law. 

20 

In
      the case of any benefit (which the Committee or the Administrator, as
      applicable, shall determine to be of the same general character as a
      payment provided by the Plan)that is payable to any Participant, to his or
      her beneficiaries, his or her estate or his or her annuitant under any law
      now in force or hereafter enacted, only the excess, if any, of the amount
      prescribed in the Plan above the amount of such payment prescribed by law
      shall be payable under the Plan; provided, however, that no benefit
      payable under the Plan shall be reduced by reason of any governmental
      benefit or pension payable on account of military service or by reason of
      any benefit which the recipient would be entitled to receive under the
      Social Security Act or Railroad Retirement Act. In those cases where,
      because of differences in the beneficiaries or in the time or methods of
      payment or otherwise, the determination of any such excess is not
      ascertainable by mere comparison but adjustments are necessary, the
      Committee or the Administrator, as applicable, shall, in its discretion,
      determine whether or not in fact any such excess exists and make the
      adjustments necessary to carry out in a fair and equitable manner the
      spirit of the provision for the payment of any such excess. Further, in
      determining whether or not there is an excess, to the extent any payments
      under any law are considered in determining whether there is any excess
      payable to an employee under any other comparable plan sponsored by the
      Company, the amount of such payments under law shall not be considered
      under this Plan. 

9.19.            Entire
Plan. 

This
      written Plan document is the final and exclusive statement of the terms of
      this Plan, and any claim of right or entitlement under the Plan shall be
      determined in accordance with its provisions pursuant to the procedures
      described in Article 7. Unless otherwise authorized by the Board or its
      delegate, no amendment or modification to this Plan shall be effective
      until reduced to writing and adopted pursuant to Section
    8.02. 

21 

Appendix
A 

Prior Pension
Formulas  

The
      pension formulas in effect for retirements between the period from August
      10, 1980 to April 14, 1991, inclusive, are outlined below. The Basic
      Formula shown in Part 1. applies solely to Officers; the Alternate Formula
      in Part 2. applies to all participants for service benefit purposes only,
      and an Officer is entitled to the greater benefit provided under either
      the Basic Formula or Alternate
Formula. 

Part 1 - Basic
Formula:  

The
      product of one and six tenths percentum (1.6%) and an Officer's Adjusted
      Career Income. The early retirement discounts shown is Paragraphs 3(b)(ii)
      and 4(b)(i) of Section 4 of the Plan apply to pension benefits under this
      Formula. 

"Adjusted Career Income" is
calculated in two steps: 

Step
      1 - Determine the average of the amount of short term  incentive
      awards or standard awards up to a permitted maximum amount which were paid
      or effective during a specified pay base period and multiply this average
      amount by Term of Employment completed as of the end of the pay base
      period; 

Step
      2 - Total the amount of the applicable awards after the pay base period to
      retirement and add this amount to the amount calculated under Step
      1. 

The components of the adjusted career
income calculation are shown below: 

* 

Awards
      for partial years during and after the Pay Base Period and for the year of
      retirement are prorated. In addition, no award is includable for the year
      of retirement if an Officer does not complete at least 3 months of Active
      Service during such year. 

23 

Appendix
A 

Part 2 - Alternate
Formula:  

Provisions applicable from
January 2, 1984 through May 30, 1988  

The
following Alternate Formula was effective for retirements on or after January 2,
1984 through May 30. 1988: 

A. 

The
      product of one and two-tenths percentum (1.2%) and Adjusted Career Average
      Pay, 

PLUS  

B. 

Ten
      dollars ($10.) and the product of five-hundredths percentum (.05%) and the
      difference between the Covered Compensation Base for the year of
      retirement and the Adjusted Career Average
Pay. 

TIMES  

C.        Term
of employment at retirement, 

MINUS  

D. 

Annual
      Service pension payable under the Pension Plan before reduction for a
      Survivor Annuity or early
retirement. 

The
      early retirement discount described in Appendix C of this Plan applies to
      the amounts computed under the Alternate
  Formula. 

"Adjusted
      Career Average Pay" in the case of an Officer is calculated by dividing
      the sum of the total Adjusted Career Income under the Basic Formula of
      this Plan in effect at retirement and the total Adjusted Career Income
      under the Pension Plan formula in effect at retirement by such Officer's
      Term of Employment at retirement. 

"Adjusted
      Career Average Pay" for an E-band Employee is Calculated by dividing the
      total Adjusted Career Income under the Pension Plan formula in effect at
      retirement by such employee's Term of Employment at
      retirement. 

Provisions applicable from
May 31, 1988 through October 18, 1993  

The
following Alternate Formula was effective for retirements on or after May 31,
1988 through October 18. 1993: 

24 

A. 

The
      product of one and seven-tenths percentum (1.7%) and Adjusted Career
      Average Pay, 

MINUS  

B.        The
product of eight-tenths (0.8%) and the Covered Compensation Base, 

TIMES  

C.        Term
of employment at retirement, 

MINUS  

D. 

Annual
      Service pension payable under the Pension Plan before reduction for a
      Survivor Annuity or early
retirement. 

The
      early retirement discount described in Appendix C of this Plan applies to
      the amounts computed under the Alternate
  Formula. 

"Adjusted
      Career Average Pay" is calculated by dividing the sum of the total
      Adjusted Career Income under the Basic Formula of this Plan in effect at
      retirement and the total Adjusted Career Income under the Pension Plan
      formula in effect at retirement by such Officer's Term of Employment at
      retirement. 

Part 3 - Waiver of Death
Benefit  

Waiver
      of the Death Benefit. If an Officer is deemed to have waived the death
      benefit under the Pension Plan, he or she will be deemed to have waived
      such death benefits pursuant to this Plan as well, provided he or she
      either died before January 1, 1987 or he or she retired or terminated
      employment before December 31, 1986 and had attained age 55 on or before
      December 31, 1983; if a prior waiver by an Officer of death benefits under
      the Pension Plan is deemed rescinded under the Pension Plan, such waiver
      is deemed rescinded under this Plan effective December 31,
      1986. 

25 

APPENDIX
B 

Section
4.02(c) Alternate Minimum Formula - Table of Factors 

Age 

                    50
or
less  51     52     53     54     55     56     57     58     59     60     61     62     63     64     65 

Service 

20
or
less  1.33        1.33   1.33   1.36   1.43   1.47   1.43   1.38   1.33   1.28   1.25   1.20   1.15   1.10   1.05   1.00 

21          1.38        1.32   1.32   1.35   1.42   1.46   1.42   1.37   1.32   1.27   1.24   1.19   1.14   1.09   1.05   1.00 

22          1.42        1.37   1.31   1.34   1.41   1.45   1.41   1.36   1.30   1.26   1.23   1.18   1.14   1.09   1.05   1.00 

23          1.47        1.41   1.36   1.33   1.40   1.44   1.40   1.35   1.29   1.25   1.22   1.17   1.13   1.09   1.04   1.00 

24          1.52        1.46   1.40   1.39   1.39   1.43   1.39   1.34   1.29   1.24   1.21   1.17   1.12   1.08   1.04   1.00 

25          1.58        1.51   1.45   1.43   1.45   1.42   1.38   1.33   1.28   1.23   1.20   1.16   1.12   1.08   1.04   1.00 

26          1.57        1.50   1.44   1.42   1.44   1.41   1.37   1.32   1.27   1.22   1.19   1.15   1.11   1.08   1.04   1.00 

27          1.57        1.49   1.43   1.42   1.43   1.40   1.36   1.31   1.26   1.21   1.18   1.15   1.11   1.07   1.04   1.00 

28          1.56        1.48   1.42   1.41   1.43   1.39   1.36   1.31   1.25   1.21   1.18   1.14   1.11   1.07   1.04   1.00 

29          1.55        1.48   1.42   1.40   1.42   1.39   1.35   1.30   1.25   1.20   1.17   1.14   1.10   1.07   1.03   1.00 

30          1.38        1.36   1.33   1.35   1.39   1.38   1.34   1.29   1.24   1.19   1.17   1.13   1.10   1.07   1.03   1.00 

31          1.38        1.35   1.33   1.34   1.39   1.37   1.34   1.29   1.24   1.19   1.16   1.13   1.10   1.06   1.03   1.00 

32          1.37        1.35   1.32   1.34   1.38   1.37   1.33   1.28   1.23   1.18   1.16   1.12   1.09   1.06   1.03   1.00 

33          1.37        1.34   1.32   1.34   1.38   1.36   1.33   1.28   1.23   1.18   1.15   1.12   1.09   1.06   1.03   1.00 

34          1.36        1.34   1.31   1.33   1.37   1.36   1.32   1.27   1.22   1.17   1.15   1.12   1.09   1.06   1.03   1.00 

35
or
more  1.36        1.33   1.31   1.33   1.37   1.35   1.32   1.27   1.22   1.17   1.14   1.11   1.09   1.06   1.03   1.00 

APPENDIX
C 

Section
4.02(b) Alternate Formula 

      Early
Retirement Factors Based Upon Attained Years and Months of Age 

Attained Age 

Years  Months  

0      
1         
2       
3        
4        
5       
6       
7       
8        
9       10      
11      12

          50      .29      .29     .30      .30      .31      .31    .32     .32      .32     .33     .33     .34 

51      .34      .34     .35      .35      .36      .36    .37     .37      .37     .38     .38     .39 

52      .39      .40     .40      .41      .42      .42    .43     .44      .44     .45     .46     .46 

53      .47      .48     .48      .49      .50      .50    .51     .52      .52     .53     .54     .54 

54      .55      .56     .57      .57      .58      .59    .60     .60      .61     .62     .63     .63 

55      .64      .64     .66      .66      .66      .66    .67     .67      .67     .67     .69     .69 

56      .69      .69     .71      .71      .71      .72    .72     .72      .74     .74     .74     .76 

57      .76      .76     .78      .78      .78      .79    .79     .79      .81     .81     .81     .83 

58      .83      .83     .84      .84      .86      .86    .88     .88      .88     .90     .90     .91 

59      .91      .91     .93      .93      .95      .95    .97     .97      .97     .98     .98    1.00 

60     1.00 

</EX-10.III>

<EX-10.III_I>
 35
 ex10iii_i.htm
 AMENDMENT TO AT&T CORP NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN

ex10iii_i.htm 

Exhibit
      10-iii(i) 

DIRECTORS  

       AT T
      CORP.  

      April
      16,
      1997 

The
      regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of AT T Corp. was held at
      the Company's office, 32 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, on
      Wednesday, April 16, 1997, at 10:00 o'clock in the forenoon. 

Present:
      Robert E. Allen, Kenneth T. Derr, M. Kathryn Eickhoff, Walter Y. Elisha, Belton
      K. Johnson, Ralph S. Larsen, Donald F. McHenry, Michael I. Sovern, John R.
      Walter, Joseph D. Williams and Thomas H. Wyman. John D. Zeglis, General Counsel
      and Senior Executive Vice President Corporate Affairs, and Maureen B. Tart,
      Vice
      President and Controller, also attended. The Chairman of the Board presided.
      Marilyn J. Wasser acted as Secretary of the meeting. 

*
      *
      * 

Mr
      Wyman stated that the Committee had
      reviewed proposed changes to the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan (the
      "NQPP") and the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan (the "MCPP"). These changes
      include: (1) updating existing benefits under both plans for those plan
      participants who, as of January 1, 1997, were on the active roll of an AT T
      Management Pension Plan (AT TMPP) participating company. (2) changing the
      NQPP to a new cash balance design effective January 1, 1998 for plan
      participants who are on the active roll of participating companies on or after
      that date, and (3) limiting the amount of, and eligibility for,
      primary   death benefits. 

Mr.
      Wyman stated that the Committee had
      recommended that the Board of Directors approve all such proposed changes to
      such plans. Whereupon, on motion it was 

RESOLVED:
      that, the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan (the "NQPP") and the AT T
      Mid-Career Pension Plan (the "MCPP") be amended to provide that an employee
      shall be eligible (eligible employee) to be considered an eligible executive
      for
      purposes of these resolutions if, (1) in the case of eligibility for applicable
      benefits described below under the NQPP, he or she was a participant in the
      NQPP
      on January 1, 1997 and, (2) in the case of eligibility for applicable benefits
      described below under the MCPP, he or she would have been considered a
      participant in the MCPP if he or she had terminated employment immediately
      before January 1, 1997; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective August 1,
      1997, the NQPP be amended to provide that the monthly NQPP benefit under the
      basic formula for eligible executives who are Officers (as defined in the NQPP),
      payable at age sixty-five (or such earlier age in accordance with plan
      provisions), equal one-twelfth of one and sixth-tenths percent of the eligible
      executive's average annual eligible short term incentive award earned for the
      -period from January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1996, multiplied by the lesser
      of (1) one plus the eligible executive's net credited service ("term of
      employment as defined in the NQPP") as of December 31, 1996 or (2) one hundred
      and five percent of such net credited service; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective August 1,
      1997, the NQPP be amended to provide that, for purposes of calculating an
      eligible executive's benefit under the alternate formula, (1) an eligible
      executive's net credited service shall be replaced by the lesser of (a) one
      plus
      the eligible executive's net credited service as of December 31, 1996 or (b)
      one
      hundred five percent of such net credited service and (2) "adjusted career
      average pay" means (a) in the case of an Officer (as defined in the NQPP),
      the
      sum of (i) his or her average annual short term incentive award and any salary
      deferrals earned for the period from January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1996,
      and (ii) his or her average annual compensation as defined in the AT TMPP
      for the period from January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1996, and (b) in the
      case of an E-band employee (as defined in the NQPP), his or her average annual
      compensation as defined in the AT TMPP for the period  .     from
      January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1996; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective August 1,
      1997, the MCPP be amended to provide that the MCPP benefit of an eligible
      executive equal the amount accrued under applicable plan provisions for each
      such individual computed for both the portion of the benefit derived from the
      AT TMPP and from the NQPP as follows: (1) mid-career pension credits shall
      be computed as if the eligible employee had terminated employment as of December
      31, 1996, (2) January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1996 shall be the base
      period, and (3) the lesser of (a) one plus the eligible executive's net credited
      service ("term of employment" as defined in the MCPP) as of December 31, 1996
      or
      (b) one hundred five percent of such net credited service shall be
      used; 

RESOLVED:
      that the NQPP be amended to
      provide that no service or pay (including short-term awards and salary
      deferrals) after December 31, 1996 would be taken into account in determining
      the basic or alternate benefit (as described above) of an eligible executive
      under the NQPP; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP be amended to provide for the establishment of hypothetical
      cash
      balance accounts for Officers (as defined in the NQPP) who are participants
      in
      the NQPP on the active roll of a participating company on or after January
      1,
      1998 ("cash balance participants"); 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the monthly benefit under the MCPP with respect to eligible executives
      who
      are cash balance participants be determined as if those individuals had
      terminated employment as of December 31, 1997  .  (and assuming,
      solely for eligibility purposes, that those individuals had at least five years
      of net credit service at E-band or above) and liability for that monthly benefit
      shall be transferred to the NQPP provided, however, this benefit shall be
      actually payable only if the eligible executive has completed the requisite
      five
      years of net credited service at E-band or above at actual termination of
      employment; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP shall be amended to provide that a cash balance participant's
      nonqualified special update benefit equal the sum of the monthly benefit
      determined under the basic formula as amended above and the cash balance
      participant's monthly benefit transferred from the MCPP; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the MCPP be amended to provided that, other than eligible employees who
      are not cash balance participants, no other present or future employee shall
      be
      eligible to participate in the MCPP; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective August 1,
      1997, the NQPP and the MCPP be amended to provide that a benefit be payable
      upon
      an eligible executive's termination of employment from the Company's controlled
      group of corporations, provided that if the benefit (in the case of the NQPP,
      solely with respect to the basic formula) commences before the former eligible
      executive attains age fifty-five, it is reduced by one-half percent (one-quarter
      percent for participants with at least thirty years of net credited service)
      for
      each full or partial month that the benefit commences before age fifty-five
      and
      provided further that nothing in these resolutions shall be deemed to change
      the
      manner in which discounts are determined for early commencement of benefits
      under the alternate formula under the NQPP and provided further that nothing
      in
      these resolutions shall be deemed to change the eligibility requirements for
      receipt of retiree health benefits or any other post-retirement
      benefit; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP be amended to provide that, for each cash balance participant
      who
      is on the active roll of a participating company on January 1, 1998, the initial
      credit to his or her cash balance account is determined by multiplying the
      cash
      balance participant's nonqualified special update benefit by the same initial
      conversion factor used in determining the individual's initial credit to his
      or
      her cash balance account under the AT TMPP; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP be amended to provide that each eligible cash balance participant
      shall have credited to his or her cash balance account, effective December
      31,
      1998 and each December 31 thereafter (or as of the last day of the month
      immediately before termination of employment, if earlier), an annual award
      credit in an amount determined by multiplying his or her short-term incentive
      award paid in that year by two times the applicable factor for that individual's
      annual pay credit for that year under the AT TMPP; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP be amended to provide that each cash balance participant shall
      have credited to his or her cash balance account, effective December 31, 1998
      and each December 31 thereafter (or as of the last day of the month immediately
      before pension commencement, if earlier), an interest credit in an amount
      determined by multiplying his or her cash account balance as of the first day
      of
      chat year by the effective annual interest rate, which shall equal a base rate
      of four percent and, for 1998 and 1999, a bonus rate of three
      percent; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP be amended to provide that each cash balance participant as
      of
      that date shall have credited to his or her cash balance account an initial
      annual award credit based on his or her short-term incentive award paid in
      1997,
      if any, and an interest credit at the effective annual interest rate of seven
      percent (four percent base and three percent bonus) with respect to his or
      her
      initial cash balance credit based on his or her nonqualified special update
      benefit, if any; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP be amended to provide that, for each cash balance participant
      who
      terminates employment on or after January 1, 1998, the cash balance
      participant's NQPP benefit with respect to his or her cash
      balance   account shall be payable in the same form as the
      cash balance participant elected with respect to his or her cash balance account
      under the AT TMPP (except that if a cash balance participant elects to
      receive his or her pension under the AT TMPP in the form of the cash payment
      option (and his or her entire pension under the AT TMPP is paid in a lump
      sum), the cash balance participant's NQPP cash balance account benefit shall
      be
      payable in the form of a single life annuity or joint and 50% survivor annuity,
      if married) and that the amount of payment under each optional form shall be
      determined in the same manner as under the AT TMPP; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP be amended to provide that the amount of a participant's single
      life annuity will equal the greater of the single life annuity payable with
      respect to his or her cash balance account or the participant's monthly benefit
      then payable under the basic, alternate, or alternate minimum formula, as
      applicable; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP be amended to provide that eligibility for primary death benefits
      under Article 5 be limited to (1) participants in the NQPP who before that
      date
      had terminated employment with eligibility for a service pension or a disability
      pension and (2) participants in the NQPP on January 1, 1998 who are on the
      active roll of a participating company as of that date and who terminate
      employment before January 1, 2008 after satisfying the minimum age and service
      requirements as currently specified in the AT TMPP for service pension
      eligibility; 

RESOLVED:
      that, effective January 1,
      1998, the NQPP be amended to provide that the amount of any primary death
      benefit payable under Article 5 on or after January 1, 1998 be limited to the
      amount that would be payable as of December 31, 1997; 

RESOLVED:
      that, notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary in the resolutions of the Board adopted  at
  its   meeting held  on November 17, 1993, the funding of the
      American Telephone and Telegraph Company Benefits Protection Trust for any
      increase in liability for plan amendments described in these and/or future
      resolutions shall be amortized over the future working lifetime of plan
      participants or some other period considered appropriate by the Enrolled Actuary
      for the AT TMPP; and 

RESOLVED:
      that the Senior Vice President, Compensation and Benefits (or his delegate),
      with the advice of the Law Department, is authorized, without further Board
      approval, to: 

(1)   

incorporate
                appropriate language in the AT TMPP, the Excess Plan, the NQPP, and
                the MCPP to reflect properly the intent of the foregoing
                resolutions; 

(2)   

make
                such other administrative amendments necessary or appropriate to
                implement
                the foregoing resolutions and that are consistent with the intent
                of the
                cash balance design presented to the
                Board; 

(3)   

make
                such other amendments to the AT TMPP, the Excess Plan, NQPP, and the
                MCPP as may be necessary or appropriate to apply the cash balance,
                survivor annuity, death benefit, and related provisions to employees
                who
                return from leave of absence and to former employees who return to
                the
                active roll of a participating
                company; 

(4)   

amend,
                terminate, or make such other changes to the MCPP in order to treat
                eligible executives in an equitable manner consistent with the general
                intent of the MCPP and, in the case of cash balance participants,
                the
                transition to cash balance; 

(5)   

amend
                such other plans or programs of the Company as would be appropriate
                to
                reflect that disability pensions and service pensions due to disability
                are no longer payable under the AT TMPP and to reflect that pensions
                under the AT TMPP and the Excess Plan are payable under the cash
                payment option; and 

(6)   

take
                such further action as he considers necessary or appropriate to implement
                such amendments. 

The
      meeting adjourned at 12:42 P.M. 

      Attest: 

       MBRILYN
        J.    WASSER 

      Secretary. 

</EX-10.III_I>

<EX-10.III_II>
 36
 ex10iii_ii.htm
 AMENDMENT TO AT&T CORP NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN

ex10iii_ii.htm 

Exhibit
10-iii(ii) 

AT T
NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN 

AT T 

        and 

        such of
its Subsidiary Companies that are 

        Participating
Companies 

Amendment
dated July 28, 2003 

ARTICLE
9. 

GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

* * *
* 

9.18              CIC
Provision 

(a)              Applicability 

This Section 9.18 applies only to an
individual who, as of the date a Change in Control ("CIC") occurs (as defined in
the Pension Plan), is an employee of a Participating Company and a Participant
in this Plan. 

(b)              Nonforfeitable
Benefits 

Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this Plan, on and after the date a CIC occurs, solely for purposes of
determining entitlement to benefits from this Plan, an individual described in
Section 9.18(a) shall be deemed to be vested under the Pension Plan, whether or
not such Participant is otherwise entitled to a vested benefit from the Pension
Plan. 

(c)              Amendments
to CIC Provisions 

Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 8.02, or any other provision of the Plan, unless required by applicable
law, this Section 9.18 may not be amended in any manner adverse to the interests
of Participants without their consent and, further, upon the occurrence of a
CIC, no amendment may be made to this Section 9.18 by the Board, the Company,
(including any successor to the Company), any committee, any officer, or any
other party to suspend, modify, or eliminate any benefit provisions that are
applicable upon occurrence of a CIC. 

</EX-10.III_II>

<EX-10.JJJ>
 37
 ex10jjj.htm
 AT&T CORP EXCESS BENEFIT AND COMP PLAN

ex10jjj.htm 

Exhibit
10-jjj 

AT T EXCESS BENEFIT AND
COMPENSATION PLAN  

AT T
Corp. 

      and 

      Such of
its Subsidiary Companies which are 

      Participating
Companies 

Effective
October 1, 1996 

ADMINISTRATION
OF THE PLAN 

AT T
EXCESS BENEFIT AND COMPENSATION PLAN 

AMENDED
and RESTATED effective October 1, 1996 

Article 1
  Background and Purpose 

The AT T Excess Benefit Plan was
established to provide eligible management and occupational employees of
AT T Corp. (formerly American Telephone and Telegraph Company) ("AT T")
and its subsidiaries that became Participating Companies with certain benefits
which would have been payable under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the
AT T Pension Plan, respectively, but for the limitations placed on benefits
payable under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan
by section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (and its
predecessor, the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended)
("Code").  Effective January 1, 1989, AT T established an
additional plan to provide eligible management employees with certain benefits
which would have been payable under the AT T Management Pension Plan but for
the limitations placed on eligible compensation by Code Section
401(a)(17).  The aforementioned plans are intended to encompass those
plans identified in AT T's December 28, 1992 filing with the Pension and
Welfare Benefits Administration ("PWBA") in response to the PWBA's September 21,
1992 Notice (Extension of Grace Period for Assessment of Civil Penalties for
Failure to File Timely Annual Return Reports; Top Hat Plans and Pre-Grace Period
Late Filers).  These plans are amended and restated, effective January
1, 1994, and shall hereinafter be referred to collectively as the "AT T
Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan" or "Plan." 

The Plan is intended to constitute an
unfunded "excess benefit plan" as defined in section 3(36) of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), to the extent it
provides benefits that would be paid under the AT T Management Pension Plan
or the AT T Pension Plan but for the limitations imposed by Code Section
415, and an "unfunded plan of deferred compensation for a select group of
management or highly compensated employees" for purposes of Title I of ERISA, to
the extent it provides other benefits. 

Except as expressly provided below,
this amended and restated plan document applies only to employees who terminate
employment on or after October 1, 1996.  For former employees who
terminated employment before October 1, 1996, the provisions of the AT T
Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan in effect at termination of the former
employee's employment governs. 

Effective October 1, 1996, Lucent
Technologies Inc. established the Lucent Technologies Inc. Excess Benefit and
Compensation Plan as a successor to the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation
Plan, in effect as of September 30, 1996, with respect to Transferred
Individuals (as defined in Article 2).  Accordingly, the AT T
Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan relinquished to the Lucent Technologies
Inc. Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan all liabilities as of
September  30, 1996 relating to Transferred Individuals, and the
Lucent Technologies Inc. Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan assumed and is
solely responsible for all such liabilities.  Except to the extent
required by law or Article 5 of this Plan, the Plan shall not recognize service
and compensation before October 1, 1996 with respect to Transferred
Individuals.  Effective as of the date an individual becomes a
"Transition Individual" (as defined in Section 1.38(a) or (d) of the Management
Interchange Agreement or Section 1.30(a) or (d) of the Occupational Interchange
Agreement), the Plan shall also assume and be solely responsible for all
liabilities relating to such Transition Individuals. 

Article 2
  Definitions 

Unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the following terms have the meanings described  below when
used in this Plan and references to a particular Article or Section shall mean
the Article or Section so delineated in this Plan. 

2.1.           Administrator 

With respect to individuals covered by
the AT T Management Pension Plan, the Pension Plan Administrator under the
AT T Management Pension Plan and, with respect to individuals covered by the
AT T Pension Plan, the Pension Plan Administrator under the AT T Pension
Plan. 

2.2.           Affiliated
Corporation 

Any corporation of which more than 50
percent of the voting stock is owned directly or indirectly by
AT T. 

2.3.           AT T 

AT T Corp. (formerly the American
Telephone and Telegraph Company), a New York corporation, or its
successor. 

2.4.           Beneficiary 

Any person entitled to an Excess Death
Benefit pursuant to Section 4.9. 

2.5.           Benefit
Limitation 

The maximum benefit payable to a
Participant under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension
Plan in accordance with Code Section 415, but after application of the
Compensation Limitation, if any, under the AT T Management Pension Plan or
the AT T Pension Plan. 

2.6.           Board 

The Board of Directors of
AT T. 

2.7.           Code 

The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended from time to time.  Any reference to a particular section of
the Code includes any applicable regulations promulgated under that
section. 

2.8.           Committee 

The AT T Employees Benefit
Committee. 

2.9.           Compensation
Limitation 

The maximum amount of annual
compensation under Code Section 401(a)(17) that may be taken into account in any
Plan Year for benefit accrual purposes under the AT T Management Pension
Plan or for purposes of calculating an Accident Death Benefit, Sickness Death
Benefit or Pensioner Death Benefit under the AT T Management Pension
Plan. 

2.10.           EBA 

The Employee Benefits Agreement between
AT T and Lucent Technologies Inc. as of February 1, 1996, as
amended. 

2.11.           ERISA 

The Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.  Any reference to a
particular section of ERISA includes any applicable regulations promulgated
under that section. 

2.12.           Excess
Retirement Benefit 

The benefit, if any, described in
Article 4 which is payable to a Participant or a Surviving Spouse under the
terms of the Plan. 

2.13.           Executive 

An individual who is considered to be
within "a select group of management or highly compensated employees" for
purposes of Title I of ERISA and whose annual compensation in any year exceeds
the Compensation Limitation. 

2.14.         Participant 

An individual and/or an Executive who
has satisfied the eligibility requirements in Section 3.1 for accrual of an
Excess Retirement Benefit. 

2.15.         Participating
Company 

AT T and any Affiliated Corporation
which is a Participating Company under the AT T Management Pension Plan or
the AT T Pension Plan. 

2.16.        Plan 

This AT T Excess Benefit and
Compensation Plan. 

2.17.         Subsidiary 

Any corporation of which more than 80%
of the voting stock is owned directly or indirectly by AT T. 

2.18.         Surviving
Spouse 

A deceased Participant's surviving
spouse who is eligible to receive a survivor annuity benefit under the AT T
Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan. 

2.19.         Term
of Employment 

"Term of Employment" within the meaning
of the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan, as
applicable, for purposes of calculating the amount of a Participant's
benefit. 

2.20.         Transferred
Individual 

A "Transferred Individual" within the
meaning of the EBA. 

Article 3
  Eligibility 

3.1.           Participation 

(i) Each individual who becomes
eligible or is eligible for a deferred vested pension, a disability pension or a
service pension, under the terms and conditions of either the AT T
Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan, shall be eligible to
participate in this Plan, and/or (ii) each Executive who, in any year, has
annual compensation in excess of the Compensation Limitation and who becomes or
is eligible for a deferred vested pension, a disability pension or a service
pension, under the terms and conditions of the AT T Management Pension Plan,
shall be eligible to participate in this Plan. 

3.2.           Surviving
Spouse Benefit 

Each Surviving Spouse of a Participant
shall be eligible to receive an Excess Retirement Benefit under the Plan, if
eligible as provided in Section 4.1 of the Plan. 

3.3.           Relationship
To Other Plans 

The Excess Retirement Benefit and
Excess Death Benefit payable under the Plan shall be in addition to any other
benefits provided, directly or indirectly, to a Participant, Surviving Spouse or
Beneficiary by any the Participating Company.  Participation in the
Plan shall not preclude or limit the participation of the Participant in any
other benefit plan sponsored by a Participating Company for which such
Participant would otherwise be eligible.  The Excess Retirement
Benefit and Excess Death Benefit payable to a Participant, Surviving Spouse or
Beneficiary under this Plan shall not duplicate benefits payable to such
Participant, Surviving Spouse or Beneficiary under any other plan or arrangement
of a Participating Company or any Affiliated Corporation. 

3.4.           Forfeiture
of Benefits 

If any Participant who otherwise would
be entitled to an Excess Retirement Benefit under this Plan is discharged for
cause due to conviction of a felony related to his or her employment, the rights
of such Participant to an Excess Retirement Benefit under this Plan, including
the rights of the Participant's spouse to an Excess Retirement Benefit as a
Surviving Spouse and/or the rights of a Beneficiary to an Excess Death Benefit,
shall be forfeited. 

Article 4
  Retirement and Death Benefits 

4.1.           Excess
Retirement Benefits 

If the benefit payable to a Participant
or a Surviving Spouse under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T
Pension Plan is limited by reason of the application of the Benefit Limitation
and/or, for an Executive or a Surviving Spouse of an Executive, the Compensation
Limitation, an Excess Retirement Benefit shall be paid as provided in this
Article 4 to the Participant or the Surviving Spouse. 

4.2.           Amount
of Excess Retirement Benefit 

The amount, if any, of the Excess
Retirement Benefit payable monthly to a Participant or a Surviving Spouse shall
be equal to the difference between (i) and (ii) where: 

(i)           is
the amount of the monthly pension benefit which would be provided to the
Participant or Surviving Spouse under the AT T Management Pension Plan or
the AT T Pension Plan, without regard to the Benefit Limitation and/or for
an Executive, or a Surviving Spouse of an Executive, without regard to the
Compensation Limitation under the AT T Management Pension Plan, based upon
the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan formula, as
applicable, in effect as of the date of termination of employment or death;
and 

(ii)           is
the amount of the monthly pension benefit actually payable to such Participant
or Surviving Spouse under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T
Pension Plan. 

The amount of the Excess Retirement
Benefit payable as a result of the application of the Benefit Limitation under
the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan shall be
determined or redetermined, based upon the AT T Management Pension Plan or
the AT T Pension Plan formula, as applicable, in effect as of the date of
termination of employment or termination of reemployment pursuant to Section 4.7
or death, (a) as of the date when benefits are to commence pursuant to Section
4.3 or recommence pursuant to Section 4.7; (b) as of the effective date of any
subsequent increases and/or decreases in the Benefit Limitation, and/or (c) as
of the effective date of any special increases in the monthly benefit payable,
prior to application of the Benefit Limitation, as a result of amendments to the
AT T Management Pension Plan and/or the AT T Pension Plan, whichever is
applicable.  Further, the amount of the Excess Retirement Benefit
shall be reduced for commencement of the Excess Retirement Benefit prior to age
55 and/or for the cost of the survivor annuity, if any, in the same manner as is
set forth in the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan,
as applicable. 

4.3.           Commencement
and Form of Benefits Payable to Participant or Surviving Spouse 

The Excess Retirement Benefit provided
under this Plan payable to either the Participant or the Surviving Spouse (a)
shall commence at the same time, (b) shall be paid for as long as (subject to
Section 4.2) and (c) shall be paid in the same benefit form as the Participant's
or Surviving Spouse's benefits are paid under the AT T Management Pension
Plan or the AT T Pension Plan; whichever is applicable, provided, however,
that the Committee shall have the right to approve the Participant's election of
the form of the Excess Retirement Benefit payable to the
Participant. 

4.4.           No
Surviving Spouse 

If a Participant dies before the date
as of which his or her benefit commences under the AT T Management Pension
Plan or the AT T Pension Plan, and he or she does not have a Surviving
Spouse on his or her date of death, no Excess Retirement Benefit shall be paid
after the death of the Participant with respect to the Participant. 

4.5.           Future
Benefit Adjustments 

a)           If
a Participant has commenced receiving a service or disability pension under the
AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan in the form of a
joint and 50 percent survivor annuity and his or her designated annuitant
subsequently predeceases him or her, the Participant's Excess Retirement Benefit
under this Plan shall be calculated in accordance with Section 4.02 and
thereafter paid, prospectively, by restoring the original cost of the joint and
50 percent survivor annuity form of benefit under the AT T Management
Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan, whichever is
applicable.  Such adjustment shall be effective as of the first day of
the first month following the death of the Participant's surviving
annuitant. 

(b)           In
the event that, following commencement of benefits to a Participant under the
Plan, the AT T Management Pension Plan benefit is subsequently adjusted to
include any payments considered Compensation under the AT T Management
Pension Plan paid after commencement of the AT T Management Pension Plan
benefit, the Excess Retirement Benefit to the Participant under this Plan shall
be recalculated as soon as practicable after the AT T Management Pension
Plan benefit is adjusted and shall be paid retroactively to the date the
AT T Management Pension Plan benefit commences, if the AT T Management
Pension Plan benefit is adjusted retroactively to such date. 

(c)           In
the event that, following commencement of benefits to a Participant or Surviving
Spouse under the Plan, the AT T Management Pension Plan or AT T Pension
Plan benefit is subsequently increased as a result of a successful claim for
benefits under the AT T Management Pension Plan or AT T Pension Plan,
the Excess Retirement Benefit to the Participant or Surviving Spouse under this
Plan shall be recalculated as soon as practicable after the AT T Management
Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan benefit is adjusted. 

4.6.           Determination
of Benefits 

Excess Retirement Benefit payments and
Excess Death Benefit payments under this Plan shall be calculated in accordance
with the rules, procedures, and assumptions utilized under the AT T
Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan, whichever is
applicable.  Thus, whenever it is necessary to determine whether one
benefit is less than, equal to, or larger than another, or to determine the
equivalent actuarial value of any benefit, whether or not such form of benefit
is provided under this Plan, such determination shall be made, at the
Administrator's discretion, by AT T's enrolled actuary, using mortality,
interest and other assumptions normally used at the time in determining
actuarial equivalence under the AT T Management Pension Plan or AT T
Pension Plan, whichever is applicable. 

4.7.           Suspension
and Recommencement of Benefit Payments 

A Participant's employment or
reemployment subsequent to retirement or termination of employment with
entitlement to an Excess Retirement Benefit under this Plan shall result in the
permanent suspension of payment of the Excess Retirement Benefit to the
Participant for the period of such employment or reemployment to the extent and
in a manner consistent with the terms and conditions applicable to the
suspension of benefit payments under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the
AT T Pension Plan, whichever is applicable.  A Participant's
Excess Retirement Benefit shall recommence simultaneously with the
recommencement of his or her benefits under the AT T Management Pension Plan
or the AT T Pension Plan.  The amount of the Participant's Excess
Retirement Benefit upon recommencement shall be adjusted to reflect adjustments,
if any, in the amount of the Participant's pension benefit under the AT T
Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan resulting from the period
of reemployment, pursuant to Section 4.2.  Following recommencement of
payment under this Plan, the Participant (or Surviving Spouse) shall not be
eligible to receive any Excess Retirement Benefit payments that would otherwise
have been payable but for the suspension. 

4.8.           Mandatory
Portability Agreement 

A Participant (a) who is employed by an
"Interchange  Company", as that term is defined under the Mandatory
Portability Agreement ("MPA"), subsequent to retirement or termination of
employment from AT T, its subsidiaries or any Affiliated Company, (b) who is
covered under the terms and conditions of the MPA, and (c) for whom assets and
liabilities are transferred from the AT T Management Pension Plan or the
AT T Pension Plan, shall forfeit his rights to an Excess Retirement Benefit
under this Plan, including the rights of the Participant's spouse to an Excess
Retirement Benefit as a Surviving Spouse and the rights of Beneficiary to an
Excess Death Benefit. 

4.9.           Excess
Death Benefit 

(a)           If
the actual Accident Death Benefit, Sickness Death Benefit or Pensioner Death
Benefit ("Death Benefit") payable to any person as a result of the death of a
Participant under the terms of the AT T Management Pension Plan is reduced
or limited by reason of the Compensation Limitation, an Excess Death Benefit
shall be paid as provided in this Section 4.9 to the beneficiary otherwise
entitled to receive the Death Benefit under the terms and conditions of the
AT T Management Pension Plan. 

(b)           The
amount, if any, of the Excess Death Benefit payable shall be equal to the
difference between (i) and (ii) where: 

(i)           is
the amount of the Death Benefit which would be provided to the beneficiary under
the AT T Management Pension Plan without regard to the Compensation
Limitation under the AT T Management Pension Plan in effect as of the date
of death; and 

(ii)           is
the amount of the Death Benefit actually payable to such beneficiary under the
AT T Management Pension Plan. 

(c)           The
Excess Death Benefit provided under this Plan (i) shall commence at the same
time, (ii) shall be paid for as long as, and (iii) shall be paid in the same
benefit form as the Committee or its delegate has determined with respect to the
Death Benefit payable under the AT T Management Pension Plan. 

Article 5
  Disposition of Participating Company 

5.1.           Sale,
Spin-Off, or Other Disposition of Participating Company 

(a)           Subject
to Sections 4.8 and 9.1, in the event AT T sells, spins off, or otherwise
disposes of a Subsidiary or an Affiliated Corporation, or disposes of all or
substantially all of the assets of a Subsidiary or an Affiliated Corporation
such that one or more Participants terminate employment for the purpose of
accepting employment with the purchaser of such stock or assets, any person
employed by such Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporation who ceases to be an
employee as a result of the sale, spin-off, or disposition shall be deemed to
have terminated his or her employment with a Participating Company and be
eligible for an Excess Retirement Benefit commencing at the same time as his or
her benefit, if any, commences under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the
AT T Pension Plan.  Further, if the Participant dies after
termination of employment as described in this Section 5.1, his or her Surviving
Spouse may be entitled to an Excess Retirement Benefit, if eligible as provided
in Section 4.1, and/or his or her Beneficiary may be entitled to an Excess Death
Benefit, if eligible as provided in Section 4.9. 

(b)           Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.1, and subject to Section 9.1, if, as
part of the sale, spin-off, or other disposition of the stock or assets of a
Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporation, the Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporation,
its successor owner, or any other party agrees in writing to assume the
liability for the payment of the Excess Retirement Benefit and/or the Excess
Death Benefit to which the Participant, Surviving Spouse and/or Beneficiary
would have been entitled under the Plan but for such sale, spin-off, or other
disposition, then the entitlement of the Participant or his or her Surviving
Spouse to an Excess Retirement Benefit and/or any Beneficiary to an Excess Death
Benefit under this Plan shall terminate.  Any subsequent entitlement
of the former Participant or his or her Surviving Spouse or Beneficiary to the
Excess Retirement Benefit and/or the Excess Death Benefit shall be the sole
responsibility of the assuming party.  Upon the assumption of the
liability for the payment of an Excess Retirement Benefit and Excess Death
Benefit by Lucent Technologies Inc. pursuant to Section 6.1 of the EBA, the
entitlement of a Transferred Individual (as defined in the EBA), and/or his or
her Surviving Spouse or Beneficiary, to an Excess Retirement Benefit and/or an
Excess Death Benefit under this Plan shall terminate.  Upon the
assumption of the liability for the payment of an Excess Retirement Benefit and
Excess Death Benefit by Lucent Technologies Inc. pursuant to Section 7.1 of the
Management Interchange Agreement or Section 3.1 of the Occupational Interchange
Agreement, both dated as of April 8, 1996, between AT T and Lucent
Technologies Inc., the entitlement of a Transition Individual (as defined in
Section 1.38(b) or (c) of the Management Interchange Agreement or Section
1.30(b) or (c) of the Occupational Interchange Agreement), and/or his or her
Surviving Spouse or Beneficiary, to an Excess Retirement Benefit and/or an
Excess Death Benefit under this Plan shall terminate. 

Article 6
  Source of Payment 

6.1.           Source
of Payments 

Benefits arising under this Plan and
all costs, charges, and expenses relating thereto will be payable from the
Company's general assets.  The Company may, however, establish a trust
to pay such benefits and related expenses, provided such trust does not cause
the Plan to be "funded" within the meaning of ERISA.  To the extent
trust assets are available, they may be used to pay benefits arising under this
Plan and all costs, charges, and expenses relating thereto.  To the
extent that the funds held in the trust, if any, are insufficient to pay such
benefits, costs, charges and expenses, the Company shall pay such benefits,
costs, charges, and expenses from its general assets.  In addition,
the Company may, in its sole discretion, purchase and distribute one or more
commercial annuity contracts, or cause the trustee of the trust to purchase and
distribute one or more commercial annuity contracts, to make benefit payments
required under this Plan, to any Senior Manager, as defined in the AT T
Non-Qualified Pension Plan, or the Surviving Spouse of any Senior Manager,
provided, however, that the purchase and distribution of any such annuity
contracts shall be no sooner than the expiration of any forfeiture provisions
applicable to the Senior Manager under the AT T Non-Competition
Guidelines.  Such annuity contracts may be purchased from a commercial
insurer acceptable to the Executive Vice President - Human
Resources.  Further, the Executive Vice President - Human Resources,
may determine,  in his sole discretion, to pay additional sums to any
Senior Manager, from the Company's general assets or from the trust, if any, to
reimburse the Senior Manager for additional federal and state income taxes
estimated to be incurred by reason of the distribution of any such annuity
contracts.  The Executive Vice President Human Resources shall
establish a methodology or methodologies for determining the amount of such
additional sums.  The methodology or methodologies selected shall be
those that the Executive Vice President - Human Resources determines, in his
sole discretion, to be the most effective and administratively feasible for the
purpose of producing after tax periodic benefit payments that approximate the
after tax periodic benefit payments that would have been received by Senior
Managers in the absence of the distribution of the annuity
contract. 

6.2.           Unfunded
Status 

The Plan at all times shall be entirely
unfunded for purposes of the Code and ERISA and no provision shall at any time
be made with respect to segregating any assets of a Participating Company for
payment of any benefits hereunder.  Funds that may be invested through
a trust described in Section 6.1 shall continue for all purposes to be part of
the general assets of the Participating Company which invested the
funds.  The Plan constitutes a mere promise by AT T and the
Participating Companies to make Excess Retirement Benefit payments and Excess
Death Benefit payments, if any, in the future.  No Participant,
Surviving Spouse or any other person shall have any interest in any particular
assets of a Participating Company by reason of the right to receive a benefit
under the Plan and to the extent the Participant, Surviving Spouse or any other
person acquires a right to receive benefits under this Plan, such right shall be
no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of a Participating
Company. 

6.3.           Fiduciary
Relationship 

Nothing contained in the Plan, and no
action taken pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, shall create or be
construed to create a trust or a fiduciary relationship between or among
AT T, any other Participating Company, the Board, the Administrator, the
Committee, any Participant, any Surviving Spouse, or any other person, except as
provided in Section 7.4. 

Article 7
  Administration of the Plan 

7.1.           Administration 

AT T shall be the "plan
administrator" of the Plan as that term is defined in ERISA. 

7.2.           Indemnification 

Neither the Administrator, any member
of the Board or of the Committee, nor each other officer to whom any duty or
power relating to the administration or interpretation of the Plan may be
allocated or delegated, shall be personally liable by reason of any contract or
other instrument executed by such individual or on his or her behalf in his or
her capacity as the Administrator or as a member of the Board or of the
Committee, nor for any mistake of judgment made in good faith, and AT T
shall indemnify and hold harmless the Administrator, each member of the Board,
each member of the Committee, and each other employee or officer to whom any
duty or power relating to the administration or interpretation of the Plan may
be allocated or delegated, against any cost or expense (including attorneys'
fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim) arising out
of any act or omission to act in connection with the Plan unless arising out of
such person's own fraud or bad faith. 

7.3.           Claims
Procedure 

(a)           All
claims for benefit payments under the Plan shall be submitted in writing by the
Participant, Surviving Spouse, Beneficiaries, or any individual duly authorized
by them ("Claimant" for purposes of Section 7.3), to the
Administrator.  The Administrator shall notify the Claimant in writing
within 90 days after receipt as to whether the claim has been granted or
denied.  This period may be extended for up to an additional 90 days
in unusual cases provided that written notice of the extension is furnished to
the Claimant prior to the commencement of the extension.  In the event
the claim is denied, such notice shall (i) set forth the specific reasons for
denial, (ii) make reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial
is based, (iii) describe any additional material or information necessary before
the Claimant's request may be acted upon, and (iv) explain the procedure for
appealing the adverse determination. 

(b)           Any
Claimant whose claim for benefits has been denied, in whole or in part, may,
within 60 days of receipt of any adverse benefit determination, appeal such
denial to the Committee.  All appeals shall be in the form of a
written statement and shall (i) set forth all of the reasons in support of
favorable action on the appeal, (ii) identify those provisions of the Plan upon
which the Claimant is relying, and (iii) include copies of any other documents
or materials which may support favorable consideration of the
claim.  The Committee shall decide the issues presented within 60 days
after receipt of such request, but this period may be extended for up to an
additional 60 days in unusual cases provided that written notice of the
extension is furnished to the Claimant prior to the commencement of the
extension.  The decision of the Committee shall be set forth in
writing, include specific reasons for the decision, refer to pertinent Plan
provisions on which the decision is based, and shall be final and binding on all
persons affected thereby. 

Any Claimant whose claim for benefits
has been denied shall have such further rights of review as are provided in
ERISA Section 503, and the Committee and Administrator shall retain such right,
authority, and discretion as is provided in or not expressly limited by ERISA
Section 503. 

(c)           The
Committee shall serve as the final review committee, under the Plan and ERISA,
for the review of all appeals by Claimants whose initial claims for benefits
have been denied, in whole or in part, by the Administrator.  The
Committee shall have the authority to determine conclusively for all parties any
and all questions arising from administration of the Plan, and shall have sole
and complete discretionary authority and control to manage the operation and
administration of the Plan, including, but not limited to, authorizing
disbursements according to the Plan, the determination of all questions relating
to eligibility for participation and benefits, interpretation of all Plan
provisions, determination of the amount and kind of benefits payable to any
Participant, Surviving Spouse or Beneficiary, and the construction of disputed
and doubtful terms.  Such decisions by the Committee shall be
conclusive and binding on all parties and not subject to further
review. 

7.4.           Named
Fiduciaries 

AT T, the Committee, the Pension
Plan Administrator(s) and each Participating Company is each a named fiduciary
as that term is used in ERISA with respect to the particular duties and
responsibilities herein provided to be allocated to each of them. 

7.5.           Role
of the Committee 

(a)           The
Committee shall have the specific powers elsewhere herein granted to it and
shall have such other powers as may be necessary in order to enable it to
administer the Plan, except for powers herein granted or provided to be granted
to others. 

(b)           The
procedures for the adoption of by-laws and rules of procedure and for the
employment of a secretary and assistants shall be the same as are set forth in
AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan. 

7.6.           Allocation
of Responsibilities 

AT T may allocate responsibilities
for the operation and administration of the Plan consistent with the Plan's
terms, including allocation of responsibilities to the Committee and the other
Participating Companies.  AT T and other named fiduciaries may
designate in writing other persons to carry out their respective
responsibilities under the Plan, and may employ persons to advise them with
regard to any such responsibilities. 

7.7.           Multiple
Capacities 

Any person or group of persons may
serve in more than one fiduciary capacity with respect to the Plan. 

Article 8
  Amendment and Termination 

8.1.           Amendment
and Termination 

Pursuant to ERISA Section 402(b)(3),
the Board or its delegate (acting pursuant to the Board's delegations of
authority then in effect) may from time to time amend, suspend, or terminate the
Plan at any time. Plan amendments may include, but are not limited to,
elimination or reduction in the level or type of benefits provided prospectively
to any class or classes of Participants (and Surviving Spouses and
Beneficiaries).  Any and all Plan amendments may be made without the
consent of any Participant, Surviving Spouse or
Beneficiary.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment,
suspension, or termination shall retroactively impair or otherwise adversely
affect the rights of any Participant, Surviving Spouse, or other person to
benefits under the Plan, the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T
Pension Plan which have arisen prior to the date of such action. 

Article 9
  General Provisions 

9.1.           Binding
Effect 

The Plan shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of each Participating Company and its successors and
assigns, and to each Participant, his or her successors, designees,
Beneficiaries, designated annuitants, and estate.  The Plan shall also
be binding upon any successor corporation or organization succeeding to
substantially all of the assets and business of AT T.  Nothing in
the Plan shall preclude AT T from merging or consolidating into or with, or
transferring all or substantially all of its assets to, another corporation
which assumes the Plan and all obligations of AT T
hereunder.  AT T 

      agrees
that it will make appropriate provision for the preservation of the rights of
Participants, Surviving Spouses and Beneficiaries under the Plan in any
agreement or plan or reorganization into which it may enter to effect any
merger, consolidation, reorganization, or transfer of assets.  Upon
such a merger, consolidation, reorganization, or transfer of assets, the term
"Participating Company" shall refer to such other corporation and the Plan shall
continue in full force and effect. 

9.2.           No
Guarantee of Employment 

Neither the Plan nor any action taken
hereunder shall be construed as (i) a contract of employment or deemed to give
any Participant the right to be retained in the employment of a Participating
Company, the right to any level of compensation, or the right to future
participation in the Plan; or (ii) affecting the right of a Participating
Company to discharge or dismiss any Participant at any time. 

9.3.           Tax
Withholding 

AT T or a Participating Company, as
applicable, shall withhold all federal, state, local, or other taxes required by
law to be withheld from Excess Retirement Benefit payments under the
Plan.  AT T shall also withhold all FICA taxes required by law to
be withheld on an Executive's Excess Retirement Benefits under the
Plan. 

9.4.           Assignment
of Benefits 

No Excess Retirement Benefit or Excess
Death Benefit under this Plan or any right or interest in such Excess Retirement
Benefit or Excess Death Benefit shall be assignable or subject in any manner to
anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, claims of creditors, garnishment,
pledge, execution, attachment or encumbrance of any kind, including, but not
limited to, pursuant to any domestic relations order (within the meaning of
ERISA Section 206(d)(3)  and Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)) or judgment or
claims for alimony, support, separate maintenance, and claims in bankruptcy
proceedings, and any such attempted disposition shall be null and
void. 

9.5.           Facility
of Payment 

If the Administrator shall find that
any person to whom any amount is or was payable under the Plan is unable to care
for his or her affairs because of illness or accident, then any payment, or any
part thereof, due to such person (unless a prior claim therefore has been made
by a duly appointed legal representative), may, if the Administrator so directs
AT T, be paid to the same person or institution that the benefit with
respect to such person is paid or to be paid under the AT T Management
Pension Plan or AT T Pension Plan, if applicable, or the Participant's
lawful spouse, a child, a relative, an institution maintaining or having custody
of such person, or any other person deemed by the Administrator to be a proper
recipient on behalf of such person otherwise entitled to payment.  Any
such payment shall be in complete discharge of the liability of AT T, the
Board, the Committee, the Administrator, and the Participating Company
therefore.  If any payment to which a Participant, Surviving Spouse or
Beneficiary is entitled under this Plan is unclaimed or otherwise not subject to
payment to the person or persons so entitled, such amounts representing such
payment or payments shall be forfeited after a period of two years from the date
the first such payment was payable and shall not escheat to any state or revert
to any party; provided, however, that any such payment or payments shall be
restored if any person otherwise entitled to such payment or payments makes a
valid claim. 

9.6.           Severability 

If any section, clause, phrase,
provision, or portion of this Plan or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance shall be invalid or unenforceable under any applicable law, such
event shall not affect or render invalid or unenforceable the remainder of this
Plan and shall not affect the application of any section, clause, provision, or
portion hereof to other persons or circumstances. 

9.7.           Plan
Year 

For purposes of administering the Plan,
each plan year shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31. 

9.8.           Headings 

The captions preceding the sections and
articles hereof have been inserted solely as a matter of convenience and shall
not in any manner define or limit the scope or intent of any provisions of the
Plan. 

9.9.           Governing
Law 

The Plan shall be governed by the laws
of the State of New Jersey (other than its conflict of laws provisions) from
time to time in effect, except to the extent such laws are preempted by the laws
of the United States of America. 

9.10.           Entire
Plan 

This written Plan document is the final
and exclusive statement of the terms of this Plan, and any claim of right or
entitlement under the Plan shall be determined in accordance with its provisions
pursuant to the procedures described in Article 7.  Unless otherwise
authorized by the Board or its delegate, no amendment or modification to this
Plan shall be effective until reduced to writing and adopted pursuant to Section
8.1. 

</EX-10.JJJ>

<EX-10.JJJ_I>
 38
 ex10jjj_i.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE AT&T CORP EXCESS BENEFIT AND COMP PLAN

ex10jjj_i.htm 

Exhibit
10-jjj(i) 

Amendment
to 

AT T EXCESS BENEFIT AND
COMPENSATION PLAN  

Dated
July 28, 2003 

AT T 

      and 

      such of
its Subsidiary Companies that are 

      Participating
Companies 

ARTICLE
4 

RETIREMENT
AND DEATH BENEFITS 

* * *
* 

4.9.    Change
in Control Provisions 

(a)
In  accordance  with
the  preceding  provisions  of  Article
3 and this Article 4,  following  the  occurrence
of a "change in control," as that term is defined in the AT T Management
Pension Plan, the benefit determined  pursuant to Section 4.2
and/or  Section 4.3 for a
"CIC  eligible  employee," as that term is defined in the
AT T  Management  Pension Plan,  shall be
determined  taking into account  the change in
control  provisions  of such plan.  Pursuant to
the Board resolution  of January 21,  1998,  the
Company may elect to pay a  Participant's benefit from this Plan in a
single sum payment. 

(b)  Notwithstanding  the
provisions of Section 9.1, or any other provision of the
Plan,  unless  required
by  applicable  law,  this Section 4.9 may not be
amended in any manner  adverse to the  interests
of  Participants  without their consent and,
further,  upon the occurrence of a CIC, no amendment may be made to
this Section 4.9 by the
Board,  the  Company,  (including  any  successor
to the Company), any committee,  any officer, or any other party to
suspend, modify, or   eliminate
any benefit provisions that are applicable upon occurrence of a
CIC. 

</EX-10.JJJ_I>

<EX-10.KKK>
 39
 ex10kkk.htm
 BELLSOUTH SPLIT DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE PLAN

ex10kkk.htm 

Exhibit
10-kkk 

BELLSOUTH SPLIT-DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE
PLAN  

AS
AMENDED AND RESTATED 

      EFFECTIVE
AS OF NOVEMBER 24, 2003 

1.
PURPOSE 

The
purpose of the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan (the "Plan") is to
provide a split-dollar insurance arrangement under which BellSouth Corporation
and its subsidiaries and affiliates can assist key employees in acquiring and
financing life insurance coverage. This Plan incorporates the provisions of the
BellSouth Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan and the BellSouth
Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance Plan, as amended as of the effective
date of this Plan (the "Prior Plans"), and, as of such effective date, shall be
deemed to constitute a complete restatement of both Prior Plans, as amended
(except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in Section 3.1 of this
Plan). 

2.
DEFINITIONS 

For
purposes of this Plan, the following terms have the meanings set forth
below: 

2.1   "AGREEMENT"
means the agreement executed between the Employer and a Participant implementing
the terms of this Plan, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit
"A". 

2.2   "ASSIGNMENT"
means the collateral assignment executed by the Policy Owner, substantially in
the form attached hereto as Exhibit "B". 

2.3   "COVERAGE
AMOUNT" means the face amount of the insurance death benefit provided to a
Participant under the Plan, as specified in the Participant's
Agreement. 

2.4   "DISABILITY"
means that the Participant is receiving disability benefits under any long-term
disability plan sponsored by the Employer or an affiliated entity. 

2.5   "EFFECTIVE
DATE" means the effective date of the Plan, which is January 1,
1998. 

2.6   "EMPLOYEE"
means an employee or former employee of the Employer who is eligible to
participate in the Plan. 

2.7   "EMPLOYER"
means BellSouth Corporation and any subsidiary or affiliate of BellSouth
Corporation which is authorized by the Plan Administrator to participate in this
Plan. 

2.8   "EMPLOYER
ACCOUNT" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, a bookkeeping entry
maintained by the Employer pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan, equal to the
lesser of (1) the cash value of the Policy, or (2) the amount of Policy premiums
paid by the Employer (and not collected from the Participant). With respect to a
Replacement Policy, the amount of Policy premiums paid by the Employer shall be
deemed to include the total of all such premiums paid on the Replacement Policy
and the Replaced Policy, reduced by an amount equal to that portion of the
Replaced Policy Cash Value, if any, paid to the Employer at the time the
Replacement Policy is issued. 

2.9   "EMPLOYER
PREMIUM" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the total Policy premium
payable for the Policy Year by the Company as specified in the Participant's
Agreement, less the portion of the premium to be paid by the Participant
pursuant to Section 5.1 of the Plan. 

2.10  "ENROLLMENT
AGE" means the Participant's age at the time of enrollment in the Prior Plans as
to the Participant's initial Coverage Amount, and it means the Participant's age
at a subsequent enrollment for an increased Coverage Amount as to the increased
Coverage Amount; provided, however, that with respect to a Replacement Policy,
the age at enrollment shall mean the age at the time of enrollment for the
Replaced Policy. 

2.11  "INSURANCE
COST" means, with respect to a Participant, the annual cost for the
Participant's Coverage Amount determined pursuant to the Insurance Cost schedule
maintained by the Plan Administrator.  The Insurance Cost for a
Participant shall be determined as of the time of the Participant's enrollment
in the Prior Plan(s), based on the Participant's Coverage Amount and Enrollment
Age, and shall not change thereafter. A smoker rate shall be used to determine
the Insurance Cost for any Participant who smoked cigarettes at any time during
the twelve month period immediately preceding the Participant's enrollment; a
nonsmoker rate shall be used for all other Participants. However,
notwithstanding the previous sentence, if a Replacement Policy is issued for a
Participant and the Participant qualifies as a nonsmoker for the Replacement
Policy, the nonsmoker rate shall thereafter be used to determine the Insurance
Cost for the Participant. 

If
a Participant's coverage is in effect for a period of less than twelve (12)
months during any Policy Year, the Participant's Insurance Cost for that year
shall be determined by multiplying the annual cost as determined from the
insurance cost schedule by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
full months that the coverage is in effect and the denominator of which is
twelve (12). 

2.12  "INSURER"
means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the insurance company issuing the
insurance policy or group policy certificate on the Participant's life (or on
the joint lives of the Participant and the Participant's spouse) pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan. 

2.13  "PARTICIPANT"
means an Employee who is participating in the Plan. 

2.14  "PARTICIPANT
ACCOUNT" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, a bookkeeping entry
maintained by the Employer pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan, equal to the
excess, if any, of the cash value of the Policy over the Employer
Account. 

2.15  "PARTICIPANT
PREMIUM" means, with respect to each Policy Year (or portion thereof) for a
Participant, the greater of (1) the Participant's Insurance Cost; or (2) the one
year term cost for the Policy Year (or portion thereof) determined based on the
Participant's age at the beginning of the Policy Year, the Insurer's published
one year term rates in effect at the beginning of the Policy Year, and the
Participant's Coverage Amount under the Plan.  The one year term cost
amount shall be determined pursuant to the guidelines set forth in Revenue
Ruling 66-110, 1966-1 C.B. 12, and Revenue Ruling 67-154, 1967-1 C.B. 11, and
shall be conclusively determined by the Plan Administrator. 

2.16  "PERMANENT
POLICY" means a Participant's Policy having cash values which are projected to
be sufficient to continue to provide death benefit coverage at least equal to
the Participant's Coverage Amount until the policy maturity date specified in
the Participant's Policy (determined without regard to any Policy rider which
extends the maturity date beyond the originally scheduled policy maturity date),
and which is projected to have a cash accumulation value equal to at least
ninety-five percent (95%) of the Policy Coverage Amount at the maturity date
specified in such Policy, with no further premium payments, following a
withdrawal by the Employer of all amounts to which it is entitled pursuant to
Section 8.2e or Section 8.3. A determination as to whether a Policy is at a
given time a Permanent Policy shall be made by the Plan Administrator, and shall
be based on Policy projections provided by the Insurer or its agent utilizing
the Policy's then current mortality rates and Policy expenses, and the following
Policy interest crediting rates. For the Policy Year of the Employer withdrawal
made pursuant to Section 8.2e or Section 8.3, the projections shall reflect the
actual Policy interest crediting rate in effect for such year (or, if such rate
is not known when the determination is made, the actual rate in effect for the
preceding Policy Year). For each of the ten (10) succeeding Policy Years, the
projections shall reflect that rate decreased ratably such that the rate in the
tenth Policy Year following the Policy Year in which the Employer withdrawal
occurs will be five percent (5%). For all successive Policy Years, the
projections shall reflect a five percent (5%) Policy interest crediting rate.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the actual Policy interest crediting rate in
effect when the determination is made is less than five percent (5%), the
projections shall reflect such lower rate for the Policy Year of the Employer
withdrawal and all subsequent Policy Years. 

2.17  "PLAN"
means the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan. Except as otherwise
provided in Section 3.1, with respect to each Participant who participated in
the BellSouth Corporation Executive 

      Life
Insurance Plan, the Plan shall be construed and interpreted as a restatement of
the provisions of such plan, as amended; and, with respect to each Participant
who participated in the BellSouth Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance
Plan, the Plan shall be construed and interpreted as a restatement of such plan,
as amended. 

2.18  "PLAN
ADMINISTRATOR" means the Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth Corporation and
any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with respect to
any or all of his responsibilities hereunder; provided, the Board of Directors
of BellSouth Corporation may designate any other person or committee to serve in
lieu of the Chief Executive Officer as the Plan Administrator with respect to
any or all of the administrative responsibilities hereunder. 

2.19  "POLICY"
means the life insurance coverage acquired on the life of the Participant (or on
the joint lives of the Participant and the Participant's spouse) by the
Participant or other Policy Owner, which may be issued as a separate insurance
policy or a certificate under a group policy. 

2.20  "POLICY
OWNER" means the Participant or that person or entity to whom the Participant
has assigned his interest in the Policy. In the case of a Replacement Policy
issued to replace a Policy for which the Policy Owner is other than the
Participant, the Policy Owner of the Replacement Policy shall be the same as the
Policy Owner of the Policy being replaced, unless elected otherwise by such
Policy Owner. 

2.21  "POLICY
YEAR" means the twelve month period (and each successive twelve month period)
beginning on the effective date of the Agreement. 

2.22  "PREMIUM
PAYMENT YEARS" means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the number of
consecutive Policy Years (including, for a Replacement Policy, the number of
Policy Years during which the Replaced Policy was in force), beginning with the
first Policy Year, during which the Employer is required to pay a Policy
premium, as specified in the Participant's Agreement. 

2.23  "REPLACED
POLICY" means a Policy which has been replaced by a Replacement Policy. If a
Participant's Policy has been replaced more than one time, then the term
Replaced Policy shall include all prior Policies. 

2.24  "REPLACED
POLICY CASH VALUE" means the cash value of the Replaced Policy on the Effective
Date. 

2.25  "REPLACEMENT
POLICY" means a Policy issued to replace a Policy previously issued under the
Plan. 

2.26  "RETIREMENT"
means a termination of the Participant's employment with the Employer under
circumstances where the Participant is immediately eligible to receive pension
benefits under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) maintained by
the Employer or one of its subsidiaries. 

2.27  "SINGLE
LIFE COVERAGE" means life insurance coverage on the life of the
Participant. 

2.28  "SURVIVORSHIP
COVERAGE" means life insurance coverage on the lives of the Participant and the
Participant's spouse, with the life insurance death benefit to be payable at the
death of the last survivor of the Participant and the Participant's
spouse. 

2.29  "TERMINATED
FOR CAUSE" means, with respect to a Participant, the termination of the
Participant's employment with the Employer due to: (i) fraud, misappropriation,
embezzlement, or intentional material damage to the property or business of the
Employer; (ii) commission of a felony involving moral turpitude of which the
Participant is finally adjudicated guilty; or (iii) continuance of either
willful and repeated failure or grossly negligent and repeated failure by the
Participant to materially perform his duties. 

3.
ELIGIBILITY 

3.1   GENERAL.
Each Employee with a Prior Plan Agreement in effect on the day preceding the
Effective Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan, provided that the
Employee (and any other appropriate party, such as the Employee's spouse or a
Policy Owner other than the Employee, as determined by the Plan Administrator)
executes an Agreement consenting to the terms of this Plan, as amended, and
completes such other forms as the Plan Administrator shall require. Any Employee
eligible to participate who fails to execute (or secure execution of) an
enrollment form consenting to the terms of this Plan, as amended, within the
time period prescribed by the Plan Administrator, shall not be eligible for
coverage under the Plan, but shall remain subject to the terms and conditions of
the Prior Plan(s) in which such Employee participates as in effect on the day
preceding the Effective Date, as amended thereafter from time to time. Effective
November 24, 2003, any Employee who is, or becomes, an executive officer or
director of BellSouth Corporation (as such terms are used in Section 402 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) shall be ineligible to participate in the Plan and
any Agreement previously executed by such Employee shall be terminated pursuant
to Section 8 of the Plan. 

3.2   TYPE
OF COVERAGE. The type(s) of coverage for a Participant on the Effective Date
shall be the type(s) of coverage in place on the day preceding the Effective
Date pursuant to the Participant's Agreement(s) under the Prior Plan(s).
Provided, however, that the Policy Owner may make a one-time election to
exchange Survivorship Coverage for Single Life Coverage (equal to fifty percent
(50%) of the Participant's Survivorship Coverage Amount), or to exchange Single
Life Coverage for Survivorship Coverage (equal to two hundred percent (200%) of
the Participant's Single Life Coverage Amount), subject to any proof of
insurability required by the Insurer. Such an election must be made within the
time period prescribed by the Plan Administrator. If an unmarried Participant
enrolls for Single Life Coverage and subsequently marries, then, subject to the
approval of the Plan Administrator, the Participant (or other Policy Owner)
shall have the right to make an election, exercisable no later than one hundred
eighty (180) days following the marriage, to convert (subject to any proof of
insurability required by the Insurer) the Single Life Coverage to Survivorship
Coverage (with the Coverage Amount equal to two hundred percent (200%) of the
Single Life Coverage Amount). If a married Participant enrolls for Survivorship
Coverage and subsequently divorces, then, subject to the approval of the Plan
Administrator, the Participant (or other Policy Owner) shall have the right to
make an election, exercisable no later than one hundred eighty (180) days
following the finalization of the divorce, to convert (subject to any proof of
insurability required by the Insurer) the Survivorship Coverage to Single Life
Coverage (with the Coverage Amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the
Survivorship Coverage Amount). Under no other circumstances shall a Participant
(or other Policy Owner) have any right to change an election as to type of
coverage after the coverage becomes effective. Any Insurer charges or tax
liability resulting from a conversion shall be borne by the Participant or other
Policy Owner. 

4.    AMOUNT
OF COVERAGE 

The
Coverage Amount for a Participant shall be the amount specified in the
Participant's Agreement. 

5.    PAYMENT
OF PREMIUMS; PAYMENT OF CERTAIN TAXES 

5.1   PARTICIPANT
PREMIUM PAYMENTS. A Participant shall pay the Participant Premium for each
Policy Year which is a Premium Payment Year for the Participant. The amount
shall be paid by the Participant to the Employer by payroll (or retirement
income) deductions of equal installments during the Policy Year, or in such
other manner as may be agreed to between the Plan Administrator and the
Participant. The Employer shall pay the Participant Premium amount to the
Insurer, and can do so as collected from the Participant or can advance payments
to the Insurer for a Policy Year at any time during the Policy Year or up to
thirty (30) days in advance of the Policy Year. If a Participant terminates
employment with the Employer, and the Employer has made such an advance payment
of the Participant Premium to the Insurer, the Employer may withhold any
uncollected portion of the advanced Participant Premium from any amount payable
to the Participant by the Employer to the extent permitted by law.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this paragraph, no Participant Premium
shall be required with respect to Survivorship Coverage after the death of the
Participant, and no Participant Premium shall be required after termination of
the Participant's Agreement pursuant to Section 8.1. 

5.2   EMPLOYER
PREMIUM PAYMENTS. THE EMPLOYER SHALL PAY THE EMPLOYER.   Premium
for a Participant's Policy within thirty (30) days of the beginning of each
Policy Year which is a Premium Payment Year. However, no Employer Premium shall
be required: (1) after the Participant's Agreement terminates pursuant to
Section 8.1; or, (2) for a Policy Year if the Employer withdrawal and release of
Assignment under Section 8.3 would have occurred at the end of the prior Policy
year but for the requirement in Section 8.3 that the Policy not constitute a
Modified Endowment Contract following such withdrawal. Also, if the payment of
the Employer Premium for a Policy year would cause the Participant's Policy to
constitute a Modified Endowment Contract (as such term is defined in Section
7702A of the Internal Revenue Code), then the Employer Premium amount for such
Policy year shall be reduced to the largest such amount that can be paid without
causing the Policy to constitute a Modified Endowment Contract. The Employer
may, but shall not be required to, make additional premium payments with respect
to a Participant's Policy after the last Premium Payment Year. 

5.3         Additional
Employer Payments. 

a.    If,
during any year participation in the Plan results in the recognition of income
for tax purposes by the Participant as a result of BellSouth's election to treat
premium payments as loans for federal tax purposes and to impute interest
thereon to affected Participants, the Employer shall pay to the Participant an
amount determined by the Plan Administrator which is designed to approximate the
(1) sum of the total federal and state income taxes and additional payroll taxes
which would be payable by the Participant at the highest marginal rate provided
for under applicable federal income tax laws, and at the highest marginal rate
provided for under applicable state income tax laws for the state of the
Participant's tax domicile, on the additional income so recognized for the year,
plus (2) the total federal and state income taxes and additional payroll taxes
which would be payable by the Participant on the payment described in clause
(1). Any payment to be made under this subsection a. shall be made no later than
April 1 of the year following the year to which the payment
relates. 

b.    If,
with respect to Survivorship Coverage after the death of the Participant,
participation in the Plan results in the recognition of income for tax purposes
by the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner as a result of BellSouth's
election to treat premium payments as loans for federal tax purposes and to
impute interest thereon to affected Participants, the Employer shall pay to the
Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner an amount determined by the Plan
Administrator which is designed to approximate the total federal and state
income taxes which would be payable by the Participant's spouse or other Policy
Owner at the highest marginal rate provided for under applicable federal income
tax laws, and the highest marginal rate provided for under applicable state
income tax laws for the state of the tax domicile of the Participant's spouse or
other Policy Owner, on the income so recognized. Any payment to be made under
this subsection b. shall be made no later than April 1 of the year following the
year to which the payment relates. 

c.    If
the termination of the Employer's interest in a Participant's Policy pursuant to
Section 8.3 of the Plan results in the recognition of income for tax purposes by
the Participant, the Employer shall pay to the Participant an amount determined
by the Plan Administrator which is designed to approximate the total federal and
state income taxes which would be payable by the Participant at the highest
marginal rate provided for under applicable federal income tax laws and at the
highest marginal rate provided for under applicable state income tax laws for
the state of the Participant's tax domicile, attributable to such termination.
Such payment shall be made immediately following the termination of the
Employer's interest in the Policy or, if later, at such time as a determination
is made that such a tax is payable. 

d.    For
purposes of this Section 5.3, a tax shall be deemed payable or income shall be
deemed recognized, if either (i) it is finally determined by the Internal
Revenue Service, or (ii) an opinion is given by the Employer's counsel, that the
tax is payable. 

e.    Any
amount to be paid to a Participant, a Participant's spouse, or other Policy
Owner under this Section, and the amounts payable, shall be conclusively
determined by the Plan Administrator, based on generally applicable tax rates
and not based upon the unique tax situation of each Participant, Participant's
spouse, or other Policy Owner. 

6.    ACCOUNTS 

With
respect to each Policy covered by an Agreement made under this Plan, the
Employer shall maintain bookkeeping entries reflecting the Employer Account and
Participant Account values. 

7.    POLICY
OWNERSHIP 

7.1   OWNERSHIP.
Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, the Policy Owner shall be the sole
and exclusive owner of a Participant's Policy and shall be entitled to exercise
all of the rights of ownership including, but not limited to, the right to
designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive payment of the portion of
the death benefit under the Policy equal to the Coverage Amount, and the right
to assign any part or all of the Policy Owner's interest in the Policy (subject
to the Employer's rights, the terms and conditions of the Assignment specified
in Section 7.2 of the Plan, and the terms and conditions of this Plan) to any
person, entity or trust by the execution of a written instrument delivered to
the Employer. 

7.2   EMPLOYER'S
RIGHTS. In exchange for the Employer's agreement to pay the amounts described in
Sections 5.2 and 5.3 of this Plan, the Policy Owner shall execute an Assignment
to the Employer of the rights provided to the Employer under this Plan. The
Employer shall have the right to direct the Policy Owner in writing to take any
action required consistent with these rights, and upon the receipt of such
written direction from the Employer, the Policy Owner shall promptly take such
action as is necessary to comply therewith. The Employer agrees that it shall
not exercise any rights assigned to it in the Assignment in any way that might
impair or defeat the rights and interest of the Policy Owner under this Plan.
The Employer shall have the right to assign any part or all of its interest in
the Policy (subject to the Policy Owner's rights and the terms and conditions of
this Plan) to any person, entity or trust by the execution of a written
instrument delivered to the Policy Owner. 

7.3   DELIVERY
AND POSSESSION OF POLICY. Any Policy issued pursuant to an Agreement under the
Plan shall be delivered by the Insurer directly to the Employer, and the
Employer shall accept delivery of any such Policy on behalf of the Participant
or other Policy Owner and shall have the authority to execute any forms or
procedures required by the Insurer in order to complete the issue and delivery
of such Policy. Thereafter, the Employer shall keep possession of the Policy as
long as there is an Assignment in effect with respect to the Policy. The
Employer agrees to make the Policy available to the Policy Owner or to the
Insurer from time to time for the purposes of endorsing or filing any change of
beneficiary on the Policy or exercising any other rights as the owner of the
Policy, but the Policy shall promptly be returned to the Employer. 

7.4   POLICY
LOANS. Except as otherwise specifically provided for in Section 8 of this Plan,
neither the Employer nor the Policy Owner may borrow against the Policy cash
values. 

7.5   WITHDRAWALS
AND SURRENDER. Except as otherwise specifically provided for in Section 8 of
this Plan, neither the Employer nor the Policy Owner may withdraw Policy cash
values or surrender all or a portion of the Policy. Provided, however, that a
cancellation or exchange of a Replaced Policy in connection with the acquisition
of a Replacement Policy shall not be deemed a withdrawal from or surrender of
the Replaced Policy. 

8.
TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT 

8.1   TERMINATION
EVENTS. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Participant's
Agreement, and the Employer's obligation to pay premiums with respect to the
Participant's Policy acquired pursuant to the Agreement, shall terminate upon
the first to occur of any of the following events: 

a.    Termination
of employment of the Participant with the Employer prior to the Participant's
death for reasons other than Retirement or Disability; or upon termination of a
disabled Participant's Disability prior to the Participant's death for reasons
other than Retirement or return to active status. 

b.    Termination
of the Participant's Agreement by mutual agreement of the Participant and the
Employer. 

c.    A
unilateral election by the Participant to terminate the Participant's Agreement;
provided, however, that such an election may be made by a Participant only
within sixty (60) days following the end of the last Premium Payment Year for
the Participant's Policy. 

d.    The
written notice by the Employer to the Participant following a resolution by the
Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation to terminate this Plan and all
Agreements made under the Plan. 

e.    As
to Single Life Coverage only, the death of the Participant. 

f.    As
to Survivorship Coverage only, the death of the last survivor of the Participant
and the Participant's spouse. 

g.    After
the release of Assignment pursuant to Section 8.3. 

h.    Upon
becoming an executive officer or director of BellSouth Corporation (as such
terms are used in Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002). 

8.2
DISPOSITION OF POLICY 

a.    In
the event of a termination of a Participant's Agreement under Section 8.1a or b
of the Plan, the Policy Owner shall be entitled to acquire the Employer's rights
under the Participant's Policy by paying to the Employer an amount equal to the
Employer Account; alternatively, the Policy Owner can require the Employer to
withdraw a portion of the cash values from the Participant's Policy, partially
surrender the Policy, or borrow a portion of the cash values from the
Participant's Policy, with the amount to be specified by the Policy Owner, and
the Policy Owner's required payment to the Employer under this Section shall
thereby be reduced to an amount equal to the excess of the Employer Account over
the amount withdrawn, received upon partial surrender, or borrowed by the
Employer (for these purposes, the amount withdrawn, received upon partial
surrender, or borrowed shall refer to the amount actually received by the
Employer after the application of any charges, such as surrender charges,
applicable to the withdrawal, partial surrender, or borrowing). The Policy Owner
may exercise this right to acquire the Employer's interest in the Policy by so
notifying the Employer within ninety (90) days after an event of termination
under Section 8.1a or b of this Plan has occurred. Within thirty (30) days after
receipt of such notice, the Employer shall make any required withdrawal, partial
surrender, or policy loan and the Policy Owner shall pay the Employer the
applicable payment, if any. Upon receipt of payment from the Policy Owner, or
immediately following the withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy loan if no
payment is required, the Employer shall release the Assignment and the Policy
Owner shall have all rights, title, and interest in the Policy free of all
provisions and restrictions of the Assignment, the Agreement and this
Plan. 

b.    Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 8.2a, if the Participant is Terminated for Cause by
the Employer, then the Policy Owner shall have no right to acquire the
Employer's interest in the Policy. 

c.    If
the Policy Owner fails to exercise his right to acquire the Employer's interest
in the Policy pursuant to Section 8.2a or is precluded from exercising such
right pursuant to Section 8.2b, the Policy Owner shall transfer title to the
Policy to the Employer, free of all provisions and restrictions of the
Assignment, the Participant's Agreement and this Plan. 

d.    In
the event of a termination of a Participant's Agreement pursuant to the
Participant's election under Section 8.1c, the Employer shall receive from the
Participant's Policy an amount equal to the Employer Account, with such amount
to be received through a withdrawal, partial surrender, policy loan, or some
combination thereof, as determined by the Employer. Immediately thereafter, the
Employer shall release the Assignment and the Policy Owner shall have all
rights, title and interest in the Policy free of all provisions and restrictions
of the Assignment, the Participant's Agreement, and this Plan. 

e.    Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 2.8 to the contrary,in the event of a termination of a
Participant's Agreement under Section 8.1d, prior to the application of Section
8.2,the Employer Account shall be reduced to an amount equal to the excess, if
any, of the cash values of the Policy over the amount of cash value necessary in
order for such Policy to immediately qualify as a Permanent Policy after
withdrawal of such excess amount. The Employer shall receive from the Policy the
reduced Employer Account value and, with such amount to be received through a
withdrawal, partial surrender, policy loan, or some combination thereof, as
determined by the Employer, and shall, within thirty (30) days of the Plan
termination, release the Assignment and the Policy Owner shall have all rights,
title, and interest in the Policy free of all provisions and restrictions of the
Assignment, the Agreement and this Plan. 

f.    In
the event of a termination of a Participant's Agreement  under Section
8.1h of this Plan, the Employer Account shall be  reduced to an amount
equal to the excess, if any, of the cash  values of the Policy over
the amount of cash value necessary  in order for such Policy to
immediately qualify as a Permanent  Policy after withdrawal of such
excess amount. The Employer  shall receive from the Policy the reduced
Employer Account  value and, with such amount to be received through
a  withdrawal, partial surrender, policy loan, or
some  combination thereof, as determined by the Employer, and
shall  release the Assignment and the Policy Owner shall have all
rights, title and interest in the Policy free of all 

       provisions
and restrictions of the Assignment, the Agreement  and this
Plan. 

8.3   RELEASE
OF ASSIGNMENT. At the end of each Policy Year for a Participant's Policy, the
Plan Administrator shall determine whether a withdrawal from the Policy by the
Employer of an amount equal to the Employer Account, and a release of the
Assignment, shall occur with respect to the Participant's Policy. Such
withdrawal and release shall be made within ninety (90) days after the end of
the first Policy Year as of the end of which: (1) the Participant's Policy would
qualify as a Permanent Policy following such withdrawal by the Employer; and,
(2) the Participant's Policy would not constitute a Modified Endowment Contract
(as such term is defined in Section 7702A of the Internal Revenue Code)
following such withdrawal. The Employer withdrawal shall be made though a
withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy loan, or some combination thereof, as
determined by the Employer. Immediately after receiving the proceeds of the
withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy loan, the Employer shall release the
Assignment and the Policy Owner shall have all rights, title and interest in the
Policy free of all provisions and restrictions of the Assignment, the
Participant's Agreement and this Plan. 

8.4   ALLOCATION
OF DEATH BENEFIT. In the event of a termination under Section 8.1e or 8.1f of
the Plan, the death benefit under the Participant's Policy shall be divided as
follows: 

a.    The
beneficiary or beneficiaries of the Policy Owner shall be entitled to receive an
amount equal to the Coverage Amount. 

b.    The
Employer shall be entitled to receive the balance of the death
benefit. 

8.5   EMPLOYER
UNDERTAKINGS. Upon the death of the Participant (or, in the case of Survivorship
Coverage, the death of the last survivor of the  Participant and the
Participant's spouse) while the Participant's  Agreement is in force,
the Employer agrees to take such action as may be necessary to obtain payment
from the Insurer of the death benefit to the beneficiaries, including, but not
limited to, providing the Insurer with an affidavit as to the amount to which
the Employer is entitled under the Agreement and this Plan. 

9.
GOVERNING LAWS AND NOTICES 

9.1   GOVERNING
LAW. This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
the State of Georgia. 

9.2   NOTICES.
All notices hereunder shall be in writing and sent by first class mail with
postage prepaid. Any notice to the Employer shall be ddressed to BellSouth
Corporation at its office at 1155 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, GA
30367-6000, ATTENTION: Human Resources-Director Executive Benefits. Any notice
to the Employee shall be addressed to the Employee at the address following such
party's signature on his Agreement. Any party may change the address for such
party herein set forth by giving notice of such change to the other parties
pursuant to this Section. 

10. NOT A
CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT 

This
Plan and any Agreement executed hereunder shall not be deemed to constitute a
contract of employment between an Employee and the Employer or a Participant and
the Employer, nor shall any provision restrict the right of the Employer to
discharge an Employee or Participant, or restrict the right of an Employee or
Participant to terminate employment. 

11.   AMENDMENT,
TERMINATION, ADMINISTRATION, CONSTRUCTION AND SUCCESSORS 

11.1  AMENDMENT.
The Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation, or its delegate, shall have the
right in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan in whole or in part at any time
and from time to time. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall have the right,
in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time so
long as such amendment is not of a material nature. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no modification or amendment shall be effective so as to decrease any
benefits of a Participant unless the Participant consents in writing to such
modification or amendment. Written notice of any material modification or
amendment shall be given promptly to each Participant. 

11.2  TERMINATION.
The Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation may terminate the Plan without
the consent of the Participants or Employees. Provided, however, in the event of
a termination of the Plan by the Employer, the Participants will have those
rights specified in Section 8.2e of the Plan. 

11.3  INTERPRETATION.
As to the provisions of the Assignment, the Agreement and the Plan, the
provisions of the Assignment shall control. As between the Agreement and the
Plan, the provisions of the Agreement shall control. 

11.4  SUCCESSORS.
The terms and conditions of this Plan shall enure to the benefit of and bind the
Employer, the Participant, their successors, assignees, and representatives. If,
subsequent to the Effective Date of the Plan, substantially all of the stock or
assets of the Employer are acquired by another corporation or entity or if the
Employer is merged into, or consolidated with, another corporation or entity,
then the obligations created hereunder shall be obligations of the acquirer or
successor corporation or entity. 

12.   PLAN
ADMINISTRATION 

12.1  INDIVIDUAL
ADMINISTRATOR. If the Plan Administrator is an individual, he shall act and
record his actions in writing. Any matter concerning specifically such
individual's own benefit or rights hereunder shall be determined by the Board of
Directors of BellSouth Corporation or its delegate. 

12.2  ADMINISTRATIVE
COMMITTEE. If the Plan Administrator is a committee, or if any of the duties or
responsibilities of the Plan Administrator are vested in a committee, action of
the Plan Administrator may be taken with or without a meeting of committee
members; provided, action shall be taken only upon the vote or other affirmative
expression of a majority of the committee members qualified to vote with respect
to such action. If a member of the committee is a Participant, he shall not
participate in any decision which solely affects his own benefit under the Plan.
For purposes of administering the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall choose a
secretary who shall keep minutes of the committee's proceedings and all records
and documents pertaining to the administration of the Plan. The secretary may
execute any certificate or other written direction on behalf of the Plan
Administrator. 

12.3  RIGHTS
AND DUTIES OF THE PLAN ADMINISTRATOR. The Plan Administrator shall administer
the Plan and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish that purpose,
including (but not limited to) the following: 

a.    to
construe, interpret and administer the Plan; 

b.    to
make determinations required by the Plan, and to maintain records regarding
Participants' benefits hereunder; 

c.    to
compute and certify the amount and kinds of benefits payable to Participants,
and to determine the time and manner in which such benefits are to be
paid; 

d.    to
authorize all disbursements pursuant to the Plan; 

e.    to
maintain all the necessary records of the administration of the
Plan; 

f.    to
make and publish such rules and procedures for the regulation of the Plan as are
not inconsistent with the terms hereof; 

g.    to
designate to other individuals or entities from time to time the performance of
any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder; and 

h.    to
hire agents, accountants, actuaries, consultants and legal counsel to assist in
operating and administering the Plan. 

The
Plan Administrator shall have the exclusive right to construe and interpret the
Plan, to decide all questions of eligibility for benefits and to determine the
amount of benefits, and its decisions on such matters shall be final and
conclusive on all parties. 

12.4  BOND;
COMPENSATION. The Plan Administrator and (if applicable) its members shall serve
as such without bond and without compensation for services
hereunder. 

13.   CLAIMS
PROCEDURE 

13.1  NAMED
FIDUCIARY. The Plan Administrator is hereby designated as the named fiduciary
under this Plan. 

13.2  CLAIMS
PROCEDURES. Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Plan
shall be filed with the Plan Administrator which shall make all determinations
concerning such claim. Any decision by the Plan Administrator denying such claim
shall be in writing and shall be delivered to all parties in interest in
accordance with the notice provisions of Section 9.2 hereof. Such decision shall
set forth the reasons for denial in plain language. Pertinent provisions of the
Plan shall be cited and, where appropriate, an explanation as to how the
Employee can perfect the claim will be provided. This notice of denial of
benefits will be provided within 90 days of the Plan Administrator's receipt of
the Employee's claim for benefits. If the Plan Administrator fails to notify the
Employee of its decision regarding the claim, the claim shall be considered
denied, and the Employee shall then be permitted to proceed with the appeal as
provided in this Section. 

An
Employee who has been completely or partially denied a benefit shall be entitled
to appeal this denial of his/her claim by filing a written statement of his/her
position with the Plan Administrator no later than sixty (60) days after receipt
of the written notification of such claim denial. The Plan Administrator shall
schedule an opportunity for a full and fair review of the issue within thirty
(30) days of receipt of the appeal. The decision on review shall set forth
specific reasons for the decision, and shall cite specific references to the
pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based. 

Following
the review of any additional information submitted by the Employee, either
through the hearing process or otherwise, the Plan Administrator shall render a
decision on the review of the denied 

       claim
in the following manner: 

a.    The
Plan Administrator shall make its decision regarding the merits of the denied
claim within 60 days following receipt of the request for review (or within 120
days after such receipt, in a case where there are special circumstances
requiring extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim). The
Plan 

       Administrator
shall deliver the decision to the claimant in writing. If an extension of time
for reviewing the appealed claim is required because of special circumstances,
written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Employee prior to the
commencement of the extension. If the decision on review is not furnished within
the prescribed time, the claim shall be deemed denied on review. 

b.    The
decision on review shall set forth specific reasons for the decision, and shall
cite specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision
is based. 

EXHIBIT
"A" 

BELLSOUTH
SPLIT-DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

AGREEMENT 

This
Agreement is made effective as of January 1, 1998, by and between the Employer
and _______________________ (the "Participant"). 

WHEREAS,
the Employer and the Participant executed an agreement (the "Prior Agreement")
under the [BellSouth Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan] [BellSouth
Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance Plan] (the "Prior Plan");
and 

WHEREAS,
the Prior Plan has been amended and restated as the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life
Insurance Plan (the "Plan"); and 

WHEREAS,
in exchange for coverage under the Plan as amended and restated, the Participant
consents and agrees to the terms of the Plan, as amended and
restated; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises contained herein and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the Employer and the Participant hereby mutually covenant and
agree as follows: 

1.    This
Agreement shall constitute an amendment and restatement of the Prior Agreement
and, as of the effective date of this Agreement, the Prior Plan and Prior
Agreement shall be terminated and replaced by the Plan and this
Agreement. 

2.    The
Policy subject to this Agreement is Policy number ______________, issued by
Pacific Life Insurance Company (the "Replacement Policy"), which replaces the
Replaced Policy. As of the effective date of this Agreement, no further benefits
will be provided to the Participant or Employer under the Replaced Policy, and
such Policy will be canceled. 3. The Replaced Policy Cash Value shall be
transferred directly to the Replacement Policy as of the effective date of this
Agreement. 

4.    The
Coverage Amount shall be $ __________ of [Single Life] [Survivorship]
Coverage. 

5.    The
Premium Payment Years shall be _______ consecutive Policy Years. 

6.    For
each Policy Year beginning after 1998, the total Policy premium for each year
which is a Premium Payment Year shall be $__________, and the Employer Premium
shall equal such total Policy premium reduced by the Participant Premium payable
by the Participant for such Policy Year. 

7.    The
Policy Owner for the Replacement Policy shall be the same as the Policy Owner
for the Replaced Policy. 

8.    The
Participant agrees to pay the Participant Premium contribution as specified in
the Plan, and consents to paying such amount to the Employer through regular
payroll (or retirement income) deductions. 

9.    The
Participant has read and understands the provisions of the Plan, and agrees that
all of the terms and conditions specified in the Plan are hereby incorporated by
reference herein and form a part of this Agreement. 

10.   Subject
to the terms of the Plan, this Agreement shall not be amended or modified
without the written consent of the Participant and the Employer. 

11.   This
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia. 

______________________________    ____________________________________ 

      DATE                                                             
 FOR THE EMPLOYER 

______________________________    ____________________________________ 

      DATE                                                             
 SIGNATURE OF PARTICIPANT 

____________________________________ 

____________________________________ 

____________________________________ 

                                                                     ADDRESS
OF PARTICIPANT 

EXHIBIT
"B" 

BELLSOUTH
SPLIT-DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

ASSIGNMENT 

This
Assignment is made by the undersigned Policy Owner effective January 1,
1998. 

DEFINITIONS: 

ASSIGNEE:                     BellSouth
Corporation 

PARTICIPANT:            _________________________________________________________ 

POLICY
OWNER:          _________________________________________________________ 

INSURED(S):                  _________________________________________________________ 

_________________________________________________________ 

INSURER:                                                      
Pacific Life Insurance Company 

POLICY:                                                         
Policy
#                    issued
by the Insurer. 

REPLACED
POLICY:                                   
Policy
#                    issued
by the Insurer. 

SPLIT-DOLLAR
LIFE                                   That
certain Agreement executed to be effective on 

      INSURANCE
PLAN
AGREEMENT            January
1, 1998, between the Participant and the Assignee. 

      (THE
"AGREEMENT"): 

COVERAGE
AMOUNT:                              That
portion of the death benefit coverage under the Policy 

equal to $___________________. 

RECITALS: 

1.    The
benefits provided to the Policy Owner under the Policy replace those previously
provided under the Replaced Policy. 

2.    Under
the Agreement, the Assignee has agreed to assist the Policy Owner in the payment
of premiums on the Policy issued by the Insurer. 

3.    In
consideration of such premium payments by the Assignee, the undersigned Policy
Owner intends to grant the Assignee certain limited interests in the
Policy. 

THEREFORE,
for value received, it is agreed: 

1.    ASSIGNMENT.
The Policy Owner hereby assigns, transfers, and sets over to the Assignee, its
successors and assigns, the following specific rights in the Policy and subject
to the following terms and conditions: 

a.    the
sole right to make withdrawals or borrow against the cash value of the Policy,
as provided in Sections 8.2a, 8.2d, 8.2e and 8.3 of the Plan; 

b.    the
right to receive from the Insurer upon the death of the Insured(s) the proceeds
of the Policy in excess of the Coverage Amount; 

c.    the
sole right to surrender all or a portion of the Policy and receive the surrender
value thereof, as provided in Sections 8.2a, 8.2d, 8.2e and 8.3 of the
Plan. 

2.    RETAINED
RIGHTS. Except as expressly provided in Section 1, the Policy Owner retains all
rights under the Policy including but not limited to: 

a.    the
right to designate and change the beneficiary; and 

b.    the
right to elect any optional mode of settlement permitted by the Policy or
Insurer, subject only to the Assignee's right in Section 1.(b). 

3.    AUTHORIZATION.
For purposes of Sections 1 and 2, the signature of either the Assignee or the
Policy Owner shall be sufficient. Both the Assignee and the Policy Owner
acknowledge that between themselves, they are bound by the limitations of this
Assignment and that the Insurer will recognize the signature of
either. 

4.    INSURER.
The Insurer is hereby authorized to recognize, and is fully protected in
recognizing the claims of the Assignee to rights hereunder, without
investigating the reasons for such action by the Assignee, or the validity or
the amount of such claims, nor giving notice to the Policy Owner of such claims
of rights or interest to exercise such rights. Insurer reserves the right to
require signatures of both the Assignee and the Policy Owner to exercise any or
all ownership rights, as is their normal procedure. 

5.    DEATH
PROCEEDS. The Insurer shall pay to the Assignee that portion of the death
benefit to which it is entitled. Payment by the Insurer of any or all of the
death proceeds to the Assignee in reliance upon a signed authorization by any
officer of the Assignee as to the share of death proceeds due it shall be a full
discharge of the Insurer for such share and shall be binding on all parties
claiming any interest in the Policy. 

6.    RELEASE
OF ASSIGNMENT. Upon payment to the Assignee of those amounts due  to
it under the terms of the Agreement, the Assignee shall execute
a  written release of this Assignment to the Insurer who may then
treat the  Policy Owner of the Policy as the sole Policy Owner for all
purposes. 

7.    ASSIGNMENT
CONTROLS. In the event of any conflict between the provisions  of this
Assignment and provisions of the Agreement with respect to the  Policy
or rights of collateral assignment therein, the provisions of
this  Assignment shall prevail. 

8.    CANCELLATION
OF REPLACED POLICY. The Policy Owner agrees that no further benefits will be
provided under the Replaced Policy, and that benefits provided under the Policy
are in lieu of the benefits previously provided under the Replaced
Policy. 

IN
TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the Policy Owner has executed this Assignment to be effective
January 1, 1998. 

________________________________ 

                                                      SIGNATURE
OF POLICY OWNER 

________________________________ 

                                                      DATE 

</EX-10.KKK>

<EX-10.LLL>
 40
 ex10lll.htm
 PTG SUPPLEMENTAL CASH BALANCE PLAN

ex10lll.htm 

Exhibit
10-lll 

PACIFIC
TELESIS GROUP 

        EXECUTIVE
SUPPLEMENTAL CASH BALANCE PLAN 

(Amended
as of July 1, 1996) 

SECTION
1                            INTRODUCTION
AND PURPOSE 

Section
1.1                             Introduction 

The
Pacific Telesis Group Executive Supplemental Pension Plan (the "Executive Plan")
was adopted as of July 1, 1995 to merge the Pacific Telesis Group Executive
Non-Salaried Pension Plan (a "Predecessor Plan") and the Pacific Telesis Group
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (a "Predecessor Plan") into a single plan
and to include the minimum pension and related welfare and surviving spouse
benefits previously provided by the Pacific Telesis Group Senior Management Long
Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan (a "Predecessor Plan"). The
benefits provided by the Executive Plan are substantially similar to the
benefits provided by the Predecessor Plans. The Board of Directors of the
Company adopted resolutions on March 22, 1996, authorizing the incorporation of
a cash balance formula and renaming the Executive Plan the Pacific Telesis Group
Executive Supplemental Cash Balance Plan. The terms of the Executive Plan, as
amended, apply to each Participant whose Termination of Employment occurs on or
after March 22, 1996. Capitalized terms are defined in Section 12. 

Section
1.2                             Purpose 

The
purpose of the Executive Plan is to assist Participating Companies in attracting
and retaining highly competent senior managers by providing certain unfunded
pension benefits to eligible Executives. The benefits provided by the Executive
Plan, when aggregated with the benefits provided by the Salaried Pension Plan,
are intended to provide the Executive with approximately the same benefit that
the Executive would have been entitled to receive under the Salaried Pension
Plan if the Salaried Pension Plan (i) recognized total base pay (whether or not
deferred) and short term incentive awards as compensation for purposes of
benefit calculation and (ii) were not subject to any legal limitations on the
amount of benefits that could be paid under such plan. In addition, the
Executive Plan provides minimum pensions and welfare benefits to certain
eligible Executives. 

SECTION
2                            ELIGIBILITY 

Section
2.1                             Participation 

An
Executive or a former Executive who is a Participant in the Executive Plan on
March 22, 1996 shall be an Existing Participant in the Executive Plan as
amended. Any other Employee who is designated as eligible to participate in the
Executive Plan after June 30, 1996 shall become a Participant immediately upon
being so designated. Participation shall cease at the Participant's Termination
of Employment unless the Participant is then eligible for benefits under the
Executive Plan. 

Section
2.2                             Mandatory
Retirement 

Each
Participant subject to a Mandatory Retirement Age shall cease to be eligible for
continued employment by a Participating Company no later than the last day of
the month in which such Participant attains the Mandatory Retirement
Age. 

Section
2.3                             Eligibility
For Executive Pension 

2.3
      (a) 

Requirements.
      A Participant shall be eligible for an Executive
  Pension: 

(1) 

at
      Termination of Employment, if the Participant is eligible for a pension
      under the Salaried Pension Plan without regard to any minimum benefits or
      early retirement window benefits which change the usual eligibility
      requirements for pensions under the Salaried Pension
  Plan; 

(2) 

at
      Termination of Employment, if the Participant is eligible for an Officer
      Minimum Benefit under Section 3.4;
or 

(3) 

before
      Termination of Employment, but only if a Participant who is not subject to
      the Mandatory Retirement Age requirements becomes eligible for an
      in-service pension under the Salaried Pension Plan. In such a case, the
      Participant's Executive Pension shall be redetermined upon Termination of
      Employment, under procedures applicable to the Participant's Qualified
      Pension Benefit as provided under the Salaried Pension
    Plan. 

2.3
      (b) 

Prior
      Participants. All Participants who were retired or terminated former
      Executives as of the initial Effective Date of the Executive Plan shall
      continue to be entitled to receive the benefits they were receiving or
      entitled to receive under the terms of the Predecessor Plans. Each other
      Participant who retired or terminated employment on or after the initial
      Effective Date, but before March 22, 1996, shall continue to be entitled
      to receive the benefits he or she was receiving or entitled to receive
      under the terms of the Executive Plan as in effect at such Participant's
      Termination of Employment. 

Section
2.4                              CFEP
Executive 

A
Participant who is a Select Officer will become a CFEP Executive as of the date
of such Participant's Termination of Employment, provided: 

(a) 

the
      Participant executes an acknowledgment within the applicable election
      period defined in the acknowledgment, as that may be amended, confirming
      the Participant's intent to defer Termination of Employment to the
      Intended Termination Month specified in the
  acknowledgment; 

(b) 

the
      Participant terminates employment in the Intended Termination Month or
      dies while an Employee prior to the Intended Termination
      Month; 

(c) 

the
      cashout value of the Total Benefit determined by using the CFEP Factor
      under the Basic Benefit formula in Section 3.3, the Officer Minimum
      Benefit formula under Section 3.4, or the Officer Supplemental Benefit
      formula under Section 3.6, whichever is the greatest, is greater than the
      balance of the Participant's Executive Account at the Participant's
      Termination of Employment; and 

(d) 

the
      Participant (or surviving spouse, in the event of the
      Participant's  death) elects to receive a cashout payment of the
      accelerated transition benefit payable under the Salaried Pension
      Plan. 

SECTION
3                            EXECUTIVE
PENSION 

Section
3.1                             Amount 

The
Executive Pension payable to a Participant at the Participant's Annuity Start
Date shall be equal to the Participant's Total Benefit determined under Section
3.2 below, reduced by the Participant's Qualified Pension Benefit. The Executive
Pension payable to the surviving spouse of a Participant who dies before his or
her Annuity Start Date shall be equal to the surviving spouse's Total Benefit
determined under Section 6 below, reduced by the surviving spouse's Qualified
Pension Benefit. If a Participant who dies before his or her Annuity Start Date
does not leave a surviving spouse, the Executive Pension attributable to such
Participant shall be equal to the excess, if any, of the Participant's Executive
Account over his or her Account under the Salaried Pension Plan, determined at
the distribution date, and shall be payable to the Participant's
estate. 

Section
3.2                             Applicable
Formula for Total Benefit 

The Total
Benefit of a Participant who is an Executive at Termination of Employment shall
be computed as follows: 

3.2(a)                            Participant
on March 22, 1996. 

(1) 

The
      Total Benefit of an Existing Participant payable at the Participant's
      Annuity Start Date shall be determined under whichever of the following
      formulas would provide the greatest benefit when expressed as a monthly
      pension for the Participant's life commencing at the Participant's
      Termination of Employment: 

(A) 

the
      Basic Benefit under Section 3.3, if eligible
  therefor; 

(B) 

the
      Officer Minimum Benefit under Section 3.4, if eligible
      therefor; 

(C)           the
Cash Balance Benefit under Section 3.5; or 

(D)           the
Officer Supplemental Benefit under Section 3.6. 

(2) 

If
      an Existing Participant other than a Participant described in paragraph
      (1) above is also a CFEP Executive, the Total Benefit payable at the
      Participant's Annuity Start Date shall be determined under whichever of
      the following formulas would provide the greatest cashout value at the
      Participant's Termination of Employment determined by using the CFEP
      Factor: 

(A)          the
Basic Benefit under Section 3.3, if eligible therefor; 

(B) 

the
      Officer Minimum Benefit under Section 3.4, if eligible therefor;
      or 

(C)          the
Officer Supplemental Benefit under Section 3.6. 

(3) 

The
      Total Benefit determined under Section 3.3 or 3.4 shall be reduced for
      early payment as provided in the applicable section. A Participant's
      Qualified Pension Benefit shall be reduced for early payment to the extent
      provided under the Salaried Pension Plan. A Participant's Executive
      Pension shall be paid in the form and at the time provided in Section 4
      and may be subject to special increases as described in Section 3.7
      below. 

3.2(b) 

Participation
      Commences after Effective Date. The Total Benefit payable at the Annuity
      Start Date of an Employee who becomes a Participant after June 30, 1996
      shall be the Cash Balance Benefit determined under Section 3.5 at the
      Participant's Annuity Start Date. 

3.2(c) 

Participant
      Not An Executive At Retirement. If a Participant is not an Executive at
      his or her Termination of Employment, but was an Executive during some
      previous period, the Participant's Total Benefit shall be determined as
      set forth in this Section 3.2, except that, to the extent applicable, (i)
      the Years of Credited Service under the Basic Benefit shall be determined
      as though the Participant's Termination of Employment occurred on the date
      that he or she ceased serving as an Executive, (ii) the Participant shall
      not be eligible for the Officer Minimum Benefit or the Officer
      Supplemental Benefit, and (iii) the Executive Pension shall not be subject
      to special increases under Section 3.7 below. The Participant's actual
      service and age shall be used under Section 3.3(c) to determine the
      appropriate early payment discount for the Regular Basic
      Benefit. 

Section
3.3                     Basic
Benefit 

The Basic
Benefit is the sum of the Participant's Regular Basic Benefit and his or her
Imputed Basic Benefit. 

3.3(a) 

Eligibility
      for Regular Basic Benefit. An Employee who is or was an Executive shall be
      eligible for a Regular Basic Benefit if the Participant is eligible for a
      Qualified Pension Benefit. 

3.3(b) 

Amount
      of Regular Basic Benefit. A Participant's Regular Basic Benefit shall be a
      monthly pension equal to: 

(2) 

the
      Participant's Years of Credited Service as of June 30, 1996 or, if
      earlier, as of the Participant's Termination of Employment during the
      period beginning March 22, 1996 and ending June 30, 1996. A Participant's
      Regular Basic Benefit shall be adjusted for early payment under Section
      3.3(c) below. 

3.3(c) 

Adjustments
      to Regular Basic Benefit. A Participant's Regular Basic Benefit shall be
      adjusted as follows based on the Participant's service at his or her
      Termination of Employment. 

(1) 

Early
      Payment. A discount equal to 1/12th of 2% will apply for each full or
      partial month down to age 50 prior to the month in which the Participant
      is at least 55 with a Term of Employment of not less than 20 years or, if
      earlier, the date on which the Employee is at least 65 with a Term of
      Employment of not less than five years. If the Participant is less than 50
      at his or her Annuity Start Date, an additional discount equal to 1/12th
      of 4% will apply for each full or partial month down to age 45 prior to
      the month in which the Participant is 50. If the Participant is less than
      45 at his or her Annuity Start Date, a further additional discount equal
      to 1/12th of 8% will apply to each full or partial month down the
      Participant's age at his or her Annuity Start Date prior to the month in
      which the Participant is 45. 

(2) 

Exceptions.
      No adjustment shall be made if the Participant has at least 10 Years
      of  Officer Service and if, at the time of his or her
      Termination of Employment, the Participant is at least 55 years of age and
      is an Officer. In addition, no adjustment shall be made if the
      Participant's Term of Employment is at least 30 years; the Participant is
      at least 55 with a Term of Employment of not less than 20 years; or the
      Participant is at least 65 and vested under the Salaried Pension
      Plan. 

(3) 

Minimum
      and Window Benefits. A Participant's Regular Basic Benefit shall not be
      increased for any minimum or early retirement window benefit that may be
      available under the Salaried Pension Plan unless the Executive Plan is
      amended accordingly. In no event shall a Participant's Regular Basic
      Benefit at his or her Annuity Start Date be less than the Regular Basic
      Benefit accrued under the Executive Plan at any earlier time, determined
      as though the Participant had terminated employment at the earlier time
      and as though the Executive Plan had always been in
    existence. 

3.3(d) 

Eligibility
      for Imputed Basic Benefit. A Participant who was a PacTel Employee before
      the Separation Date shall be eligible for an Imputed Basic Benefit if he
      or she received allocations of basic, variable or transition contributions
      under the PacTel Retirement Plan while deferring compensation under the
      Pacific Telesis Group Executive Deferral
Plan. 

3.3(e) 

Amount
      of Imputed Basic Benefit. A Participant's Imputed Basic Benefit shall be a
      monthly pension whose Present Value at the Participant's Annuity Start
      Date is equal to: 

(1) 

the
      sum of the amounts actually deferred under the Pacific Telesis Group
      Executive Deferral Plan attributable to base salary and Short Term
      Incentive Plan awards for each year between January 1, 1987, and the
      Separation Date multiplied by the sum of the basic, variable and
      transition contribution rates in effect under the PacTel Retirement Plan
      for each of those years; plus 

(2) 

Interest
      on such contributions to the Participant's Annuity Start
    Date. 

Section
3.4                      Officer
Minimum Benefit 

The
Officer Minimum Benefit provides a monthly pension to certain Executives who
serve as Officers. 

3.4(a) 

Eligibility
      for Officer Minimum Benefit. A Participant is eligible for an Officer
      Minimum Benefit if: 

(2) 

the
      Participant completes at least 10 Years of Officer Service at his or her
      Termination of Employment; 

(3) 

at
      the time of his or her Termination of Employment, the Participant is at
      least 55 years of age and is an Officer;
and 

(4) 

in
      the case of a Participant whose Years of Officer Service were interrupted
      for any period of longer than six (6) months, the Participant thereafter
      completes at least 5 Years of Officer
Service. 

3.4(b) 

Amount
      of Officer Minimum Benefit. An eligible Participant's Officer Minimum
      Benefit shall be a monthly pension equal
to: 

(1) 

45%
      of the sum of the Officer's Final Average Monthly Base Pay and Final
      Average Monthly STIP Award determined over the 60-month period ending June
      30, 1996 or, if earlier, the Participant's Termination of Employment
      during the period beginning March 22, 1996, but ending June 30, 1996;
      reduced by 

(2) 

the
      sum of the Officer's PacTel Account Benefit, if any, and PacTel Pension
      Benefit, if any. 

The
percentage in paragraph (1) above shall be increased by 1% (up to a maximum of
50% for 15 or more Years of Officer Service) for each whole Year of Officer
Service that an Officer has completed as of June 30, 1996 in excess of 10 Years
of Officer Service. The percentage in paragraph (1) shall not be increased
beyond 45% for any Years of Officer Service completed after June 30,
1996. 

Section
3.5                      Cash
Balance Benefit 

The Cash
Balance Benefit of a Participant shall be a monthly pension payable for the
Participant's life determined by dividing the Participant's Executive Account
described in subsection (a) below at the applicable determination date by the
product of the Standard Factor based on the Participant's age and 12. For
purposes of determining which benefit formula provides the largest Total Benefit
under Section 3.2(a)(1), the applicable determination date shall be the
Participant's Termination of Employment. If a Participant's Total Benefit at the
Annuity Start Date is determined under the cash balance benefit formula, the
applicable determination date for computing the amount payable shall be the
Participant's Annuity Start Date. 

3.5(a) 

Executive
      Account. A hypothetical Executive Account shall be established for each
      Employee who is a Participant on or after March 22, 1996. As of any
      determination date, the value of a Participant's Executive Account shall
      be equal to the sum of: 

(1) 

the
      Pay-based credits allocated to the Participant's Executive Account under
      subsection (b) below: 

(2) 

to
      the extent the Participant is eligible, the opening account balance
      credited under subsection (c)
below; 

(3) 

any
      benefit in the nature of a cash balance benefit that is transferred to the
      Executive Plan from the Mid-Career Plan or the Excess Plan that is
      credited under subsection (e) on behalf of an Employee who becomes a
      Participant; and 

(4)            
   Cash Balance Interest credited under subsection
(d). 

3.5(b) 

Pay-based
      Credits. As of the end of each month after June 1996, a Participant's
      Executive Account shall be credited with an amount equal to the sum of the
      Participant's Basic Rate and Supplementary Rate times the Participant's
      Pay for such month to the extent such Pay represents compensation for
      services performed as an Executive. 

3.5(c) 

Opening
      Balance. An opening balance will be established as of the Effective Date
      for each Existing Participant. The amount of the opening balance will be
      the sum of (w) times (z) and (x) times (y) times (z)
  where: 

(w) 

is
      the percentage factor from the Accumulation Table in Appendix A to the
      Salaried Pension Plan based on the Participant's service as of June 30,
      1996; 

(x)             
  is the Participant's Supplementary Rate; 

(y) 

is
      the percentage factor from the Accumulation Table in Appendix B based on
      the Participant's service as of June 30, 1996, which shall include any
      service that could be bridged (as that term is described under the
      Salaried Pension Plan) as of June 30, 1996;
and 

(z)           
    is the Participant's Cash Balance Conversion
Pay. 

3.5(d) 

Interest
      Credits. As of the end of each month after June 1996, a Participant's
      Executive Account shall be credited with Cash Balance Interest on the
      balance in such account at the beginning of such
  month. 

3.5(e)           Transferred
Benefits. 

(1) 

Mid-Career
      Plan Participant. An Employee who is appointed to an Officer position
      while a participant in the Mid-Career Plan shall cease participation in
      such plan as of the effective date of the appointment and immediately
      become a Participant in the Executive Plan. The Executive Account
      established for such a Participant shall be credited with the sum of the
      Participant's Mid-Career Account under the Mid-Career Plan and the
      Participant's Total Account under the Excess Plan as of the date the
      Employee becomes covered under the Executive Plan. Benefits payable at the
      Participant's Termination of Employment shall be paid under the Executive
      Plan and the Salaried Pension Plan, and the Participant shall have no
      further right to benefits under the Mid-Career Plan or the Excess
      Plan. 

(2) 

Other
      Promoted Employees. If an Employee who is not a participant in the
      Mid-Career Plan is designated as an eligible Executive, such Employee
      shall become a Participant in the Executive Plan as of the effective date
      of the designation. The Executive Account established for such an Employee
      shall be credited with the balance of the Employee's Total Account under
      the Excess Plan as of the date the Employee becomes covered under the
      Executive Plan. Benefits payable at the Participant's Termination of
      Employment shall be paid under the Executive Plan and the Salaried Pension
      Plan, and the Participant shall have no further right to benefits under
      the Excess Plan. 

3.5(f)           Service
Proration. 

(1) 

A
      Participant's Executive Account shall be reduced under paragraph (2) below
      at the Participant's Termination of Employment prior to determining the
      applicable formula and the benefit payable if the
    Participant: 

(A)         is
an Existing Participant, or 

(B) 

was
      a participant in the Mid-Career Plan on March 22, 1996 or after March 22,
      1996, but before July 1, 1996, and subsequently becomes a Participant in
      the Executive Plan, and the Participant's Termination of Employment occurs
      before the Participant attains age 55 and completes not less than 10 Years
      of Officer Service or has a Term of Employment of not less than 20 years
      or, if earlier, occurs before the Participant attains age 65 and has a
      Term of Employment of not less than five
years. 

(2) 

The
      Executive Account of a Participant described in paragraph (1) above, to
      the extent attributable to the application of the Participant's
      Supplementary Rate, shall be reduced by multiplying such portion by a
      fraction determined under (x) or (y) below, whichever produces the lower
      reduction, where: 

(x) 

is
      a fraction, the numerator of which is the Participant's actual Years of
      Officer Service at Termination of Employment, and the denominator of which
      is the number of Years of Officer Service the Participant would have
      completed if the Participant had remained in service until attaining age
      55 and completing 10 Years of Officer Service;
  and 

(y) 

is
      a fraction, the numerator of which is the Participant's actual years and
      months in his or her Term of Employment at Termination of Employment, and
      the denominator of which is the number of years and months that the
      Participant would have completed if the Participant had remained in
      service until attaining age 55 and having a Term of Employment of not less
      than 20 years. 

Section
3.6                      Officer
Supplemental Benefit 

The
Officer Supplemental Benefit provides a monthly pension to certain Executives
who serve as Officers. 

3.6(a) 

Eligibility.
      A Participant is eligible for a Officer Supplemental Benefit if the
      Participant: 

(1)           
    is an Existing Participant; 

(2) 

completes
      not less than 10 Years of Officer Service or has a Term of Employment of
      not less than 20 years; and 

(3) 

at
      the time of his or her Termination of Employment, the Participant is not
      less than 55 years of age and is an
Officer. 

3.6(b) 

Amount.
      An eligible Participant's Officer Supplemental Benefit shall be a fixed
      dollar amount that restores a certain percentage of the monthly pension,
      determined as of July 1, 1996, that would have been payable under the
      Salaried Pension Plan and the Executive Plan as in effect at March 21,
      1996 as of the date the Participant attained age 55 and completed not less
      than 10 Years of Officer Service or a Term of Employment of not less than
      20 years. 

Section
3.7                      Special
Increases 

Unless
the Committee determines otherwise, an Executive Pension payable as a monthly
pension shall be increased by the same percentage and pursuant to the same terms
and conditions as set forth in the Salaried Pension Plan for ad hoc increases to
monthly pensions for retired Participants or their joint
annuitants. 

SECTION
4.                            DISTRIBUTION 

Section
4.1                     Pensions 

4.1(a) 

Time
      of Payment. A Participant's Executive Pension shall be paid or commence as
      of the Participant's Annuity Start Date, subject to the Committee's
      discretion to determine another time or times of
  payment. 

4.1(b) 

Form
      of Payment. Subject to the Committee's discretion to determine another
      form of payment, a Participant may elect, prior to his or her Termination
      of Employment, one of the payment forms listed in paragraphs (1) through
      (3) for his or her Executive
Pension. 

(1) 

A
      single life annuity providing monthly payments over the Participant's life
      in the amount determined under Section 3, including any adjustment for
      early payment. 

(2) 

A
      joint and survivor annuity providing monthly payments equal to 90% of the
      amount payable under paragraph (1) above over the Participant's life, with
      a survivor benefit to the surviving spouse equal to 50% of the monthly
      pension payable during the Participant's lifetime. If the spouse dies
      during the Participant's lifetime, the Participant's monthly pension shall
      be increased to 100% of the single life annuity payable under paragraph
      (1) above as of the month following the month in which the spouse
      dies. 

(3) 

120
      equal monthly payments. The amount of the monthly payment shall be
      determined by dividing the cashout value determined under subsection (d)
      below (using the Standard Factor or the CFEP Factor, as applicable) by a
      conversion factor supplied by the actuaries of the Executive Plan. If the
      Participant dies before receiving all payments, the monthly payments shall
      continue to be paid to the Participant's surviving spouse unless the
      surviving spouse makes a written election to receive the present value of
      the remaining payments in a lump sum payment and the Committee consents.
      If no spouse survives, the present value of the remaining payments
      (determined by using the Applicable Interest Rate as of the effective date
      of the payment) shall be paid to the Participant's estate as soon as
      practicable after the Participant's
death. 

4.1(c) 

Committee's
      Final Determination. If the Participant does not elect one of the
      alternative forms of payment listed in subsection (b) above before his or
      her Termination of Employment, or if the Committee does not consent to the
      form of payment elected by the Participant, then the Committee shall
      determine, in its sole discretion, the form of payment for the
      Participant's Executive Pension and the appropriate adjustment to its
      amount. 

4.1(d) 

Lump
      Sum Determination. If the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines
      that a Participant's Executive Pension shall be paid in a lump sum, the
      amount of such benefit shall be calculated as
  follows: 

(1) 

If
      the Participant's Total Benefit is determined under the Cash Balance
      Benefit formula, the Executive Pension payable as a lump sum shall equal
      the excess of the Participant's Executive Account over the Participant's
      Account under the Salaried Pension
Plan. 

(2) 

If
      the Participant's Total Benefit is determined under the Basic Benefit
      formula, the Officer Minimum Benefit formula or the Officer Supplemental
      Benefit formula, and the Participant is not a CFEP Executive, the
      Executive Pension payable as a lump sum shall equal the Present Value of
      the Participant's Total Benefit under the applicable formula determined by
      using the Standard Factor for the Participant's age at the Annuity Start
      Date less the Participant's Qualified Pension Benefit. If the Participant
      is a CFEP Executive, the Executive Pension payable as a lump sum shall
      equal the Present Value of the Participant's Total Benefit under the
      applicable formula determined by using the CFEP Factor at the Annuity
      Start Date less the Participant's Qualified Pension
    Benefit. 

4.1(e) 

Limitation.
      Notwithstanding subsection (b) above, if a Participant receives his or her
      Qualified Pension Benefit as a lump sum, and the lump sum value of his or
      her benefits under all nonqualified pension plans sponsored by the
      Company, including the Executive Plan, is less than $50,000 at the
      Participant's Annuity Start Date, the Participant's Executive Pension
      shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum at the same time as the
      Participant's Qualified Pension
Benefit. 

Section
4.2                      Notification
Of and Application For Benefits 

The Plan
Administrator may notify the Participant of the amount of his or her Executive
Pension and may require the Participant to apply for benefits under the
Executive Plan. 

Section
4.3                    
 Deferred Payment Date 

If a
Participant's Qualified Pension Benefit is payable as an accelerated transition
benefit, and the Participant fails to consent to an immediate distribution as of
his or her Annuity Start Date, the commencement of his or her Executive Pension
also shall be delayed, and any unpaid monthly benefits under this Executive Plan
from the Annuity Start Date to the date that the Executive Pension actually
starts shall be paid to the Participant in a single sum without interest when
payment commences. 

Section
4.4                     Death
Following Annuity Start Date 

If a
Participant dies before the Executive Pension commences, but after his or her
Annuity Start Date (so that a surviving spouse benefit is not payable under
Section 6), the Participant's Executive Pension shall be paid in the form
previously elected, or deemed elected under Section 4.1(b) as soon as
practicable after the Participant's death, unless the Committee determines
another time and form of payment. If the Participant had elected a life annuity,
unpaid monthly benefits from the Participant's Annuity Start Date to the date of
death shall be payable to the Participant's estate or to such other person or
persons as are entitled to the Participant's property under applicable law. If
the Participant had elected a joint and survivor annuity, unpaid monthly
benefits from the Participant's Annuity Start Date to the date of death shall be
payable to the Participant's joint annuitant and the survivor portion of such
annuity shall be payable to the joint annuitant as of the date of the
Participant's death. 

SECTION
5                    WELFARE
BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN PARTICIPANTS 

Section
5.1                      Eligibility 

A
Participant is eligible for benefits under this section after his or her
Termination of Employment if he or she is not eligible for retiree welfare
benefit coverage under the Company's group welfare benefit plans but
is: 

(a) 

at
      least 62 years of age at Termination of Employment and has a Term of
      Employment of at least 5 years; or 

(b) 

at
      least 55 years of age and an Officer at Termination of Employment and has
      at least 10 Years of Officer
Service. 

Section
5.2                      Benefits 

An
eligible Participant under Section 5.1 above shall be entitled to life insurance
benefits which are equivalent to the benefits which would have been provided to
the Participant under the Company's group life insurance plans if he or she had
been eligible for a service pension under the Salaried Pension Plan as in effect
at March 21, 1996. In addition, an eligible Participant under Section 5.1(b)
above shall be entitled to medical and dental benefits which are equivalent to
the benefits which would have been provided to the Participant under the
Company's group medical and dental benefit plans if he or she had been eligible
for a service pension under the Salaried Pension Plan as in effect at March 21,
1996. 

SECTION
6                    DISTRIBUTION
AT PARTICIPANT'S DEATH 

Section
6.1                     Dies
After Annuity Start Date 

If the
Participant cashed out his or her Executive Pension before death, no additional
benefits shall be payable under the Executive Plan at the Participant's death
except as provided in Section 7, to the extent applicable. If the Participant
was receiving his or her Executive Pension in the form of a monthly pension
under a single life annuity at his or her death, all payment shall cease as of
the end of the month in which the Participant's death occurs. If the Participant
was receiving his or her Executive Pension as a joint and survivor annuity, or
under the 120 monthly payment option at death, payment of the Executive Pension
shall continue as provided in Section 4.1(b)(2). 

Section
6.2                     Dies
Before Annuity Start Date 

6.2(a) 

Existing
      Participants. If an Existing Participant dies before his or her Annuity
      Start Date, the Total Benefit of the surviving spouse shall be determined
      as provided in this subsection (a). 

(1) 

Amount.
      If an Existing Participant was not a Select Officer described in
      subparagraph (2) below at his or her death, the Total Benefit at the
      surviving spouse's Annuity Start Date shall be the Regular Surviving
      Spouse Benefit under Section 6.3(a) below if such benefit, determined at
      the Participant's death, is greater than the Surviving Spouse Cash Balance
      Benefit under Section 6.4(a) when expressed as a monthly pension payable
      for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing at the Participant's
      death. The Total Benefit at the surviving spouse's Annuity Start Date
      shall be the Surviving Spouse Cash Balance Benefit under Section 6.4(a) if
      such benefit, determined at the Participant's death, is greater than the
      Regular Surviving Spouse Benefit under Section 6.3(a) when expressed as a
      monthly pension payable for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing
      at the Participant's death. 

(2) 

Select
      Officer Benefit. If an Existing Participant was a Select Officer at his or
      her death, had executed the required acknowledgment described in Section
      2.4 within the applicable period, but died prior to the Intended
      Termination Month, the Participant shall be deemed a CFEP Executive. In
      that case, the Total Benefit of the surviving spouse of such a Participant
      at the surviving spouse's Annuity Start Date shall be the cashout value of
      Regular Surviving Spouse Benefit under Section 6.3(a), determined at the
      Participant's death by using the CFEP Factor, if such amount is greater
      than the balance of the Existing Participant's Executive Account at the
      Participant's death. Otherwise, the Total Benefit at such spouse's Annuity
      Start Date shall be the Surviving Spouse Cash Balance Benefit under
      Section 6.4. 

6.2(b) 

New
      Hires. If a Participant, other than an Existing Participant, dies before
      his or her Annuity Start Date, the Total Benefit payable at the surviving
      spouse's Annuity Start Date shall be the Surviving Spouse Cash Balance
      Benefit under Section 6.4(a), provided such spouse is eligible for a
      Qualified Plan Benefit. 

6.2(c) 

No
      Surviving Spouse. If no spouse survives a Participant, an amount equal to
      the excess of the Participant's Executive Account over his or her Account
      under the Salaried Pension Plan, determined as of the date of
      distribution, shall be paid to the Participant's estate as soon as
      practicable after the Participant's
death. 

Section
6.3                     Regular
Surviving Spouse Benefit 

6.3(a) 

Amount.
      The Regular Surviving Spouse Benefit determined at the applicable date
      shall be equal to the survivor portion of the joint and survivor annuity
      that would have been payable under the Basic Benefit formula, the Officer
      Minimum Benefit formula, or the Officer Supplemental Benefit formula, as
      applicable, if the Participant had started receiving such benefit in the
      form of a joint and survivor annuity on the day of his or her death and
      then immediately died. For this purpose, the joint and survivor annuity
      shall be deemed to be 90% of the monthly pension payable over the
      Participant's life under Section 3.3, 3.4 or 3.6, as applicable. A
      Participant's pension determined under Section 3.3 (Basic Benefit) shall
      be adjusted for early payment to the extent applicable under Section
      3.3(c)(1) except if, at the time of his or her death, the Participant was
      an Employee and (i) had attained age 65 and was vested in his or her
      Qualified Pension Benefit or (ii) had a Term of Employment of not less
      than 15 years. For purposes of determining the applicable formula for
      computing the surviving spouse benefit of an Existing Participant at the
      spouse's Annuity Start Date, the applicable determination date shall be
      the day of the Participant's death. For purposes of determining the amount
      of the surviving spouse benefit payable at the spouse's Annuity Start
      Date, the applicable determination date shall be the surviving spouse's
      Annuity Start Date. 

6.3(b) 

Special
      Increases. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, a surviving spouse
      benefit payable as a monthly pension under this Section 6.3 shall be
      increased by the same percentage and pursuant to the same terms and
      conditions set forth in the Salaried Pension Plan for ad hoc benefit
      increases to surviving spouses, provided the surviving spouse would be
      entitled to an automatic survivor annuity under the terms of the Salaried
      Pension Plan as in effect at March 21,
1996. 

Section
6.4                     Surviving
Spouse Cash Balance Benefit 

6.4(a) 

Amount.
      The Surviving Spouse Cash Balance Benefit determined at the applicable
      date shall be a monthly pension for the life of the surviving spouse of a
      Participant, determined by dividing the Participant's Executive Account by
      the product of the Standard Factor for the surviving spouse's age at the
      Participant's death and 12. For purposes of determining the applicable
      formula for computing the surviving spouse benefit of a Participant at the
      spouse's Annuity Start Date, the applicable determination date shall be
      the day of the Participant's death. For purposes of determining the
      surviving spouse benefit payable at the spouse's Annuity Start Date, the
      applicable determination date is the surviving spouse's Annuity Start
      Date. 

6.4(b) 

Special
      Increases. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the surviving spouse
      benefit payable as a monthly pension under this Section 6.4 shall be
      increased by the same percentage and pursuant to the same terms and
      conditions set forth in the Salaried Pension Plan for ad hoc benefit
      increases to the monthly pensions of surviving spouses, provided the
      surviving spouse would be entitled to an automatic survivor annuity under
      the terms of the Salaried Pension Plan as in effect at March 21,
      1996. 

Section
6.5                      Form
and Time of Payment 

6.5(a) 

General  Rule.
      The Executive Pension payable to a surviving spouse shall be equal to the
      Regular Surviving Spouse Benefit or the Surviving Spouse Cash Balance
      Benefit, as applicable, reduced by the surviving spouse's Qualified
      Pension Benefit. Subject to the Committee's discretion to determine
      another time and form of payment, such Executive Pension shall be payable
      as a monthly pension for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing as
      of the surviving spouse's Annuity Start
Date. 

6.5(b) 

Exception.
      Notwithstanding the general rule in subsection (a) above, a surviving
      spouse of a Participant who dies prior to his or her Annuity Start Date
      may elect, within the election period that applies to payment of his or
      her benefits under the Salaried Pension Plan, to receive his or her
      Executive Pension in 120 equal monthly payments, subject to the
      Committee's discretion to determine another form. The amount of the
      monthly payment under the 120 payment option shall be determined by
      dividing the cashout value of the Executive Pension, determined by using
      the Standard Factor or CFEP Factor, as applicable (with respect to an
      Executive Pension based on a Regular Surviving Spouse Benefit) or the
      excess of the Participant's Executive Account over the Participant's
      Account under the Salaried Pension Plan (with respect to an Executive
      Pension based on a Surviving Spouse Cash Balance Benefit) by a conversion
      factor, which shall be provided by the actuaries of the Executive Plan. If
      the surviving spouse dies before receiving all payments, the present value
      of the remaining payments will be paid to the spouse's estate in a lump
      sum. 

6.5(c) 

Limitation.
      Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, if a surviving spouse receives his
      or her Qualified Pension Benefit as a lump sum, and the lump sum value of
      his or her benefits under all nonqualified pension plans sponsored by the
      Company, including the Executive Plan, is less than $50,000 at the
      surviving spouse's Annuity Start Date, the surviving spouse's Executive
      Pension shall be paid to the surviving spouse in a lump sum at the same
      time as the surviving spouse's Qualified Pension
  Benefit. 

6.5(d) 

Lump
      Sum Determination. If the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines
      that a surviving spouse's Executive Pension shall be paid in a lump sum,
      the amount of such benefit shall be calculated as
  follows: 

(1) 

If
      the Executive Pension payable at the surviving spouse's Annuity Start Date
      is based on the Surviving Spouse Cash Balance Benefit, the lump sum amount
      shall equal the excess of the Participant's Executive Account over the
      Participant's Account under the Salaried Pension Plan at such
      date. 

(2) 

If
      the Executive Pension payable at the surviving spouse's Annuity Start Date
      is based on the Regular Surviving Spouse Benefit, and the Participant is
      not deemed a CFEP Executive at death, the lump sum amount shall equal the
      Present Value of such benefit, reduced by the Present Value of the
      surviving spouse's Qualified Plan Benefit, both determined by using the
      Standard Factor for the surviving spouse's age at the Annuity Start Date.
      If the Participant is deemed a CFEP Executive at his or her death, the
      lump sum amount shall equal the Present Value of such benefit, reduced by
      the Present Value of the surviving spouse's Qualified Plan Benefit, both
      determined by using the CFEP Factor for the surviving spouse's age at the
      Annuity Start Date. 

SECTION
7                     DEATH
BENEFITS 

Section
7.1                      Eligibility
and Waiver 

The
beneficiary of a Participant who dies as an Executive, or who dies after
Termination of Employment if the Participant was an Executive at the time of his
or her Termination of Employment, shall be eligible for a death benefit under
the Executive Plan if the beneficiary is eligible for death benefits under the
Salaried Pension Plan. If a Participant is deemed to have waived a sickness or
pensioner death benefit under the Salaried Pension Plan, then the associated
death benefit under the Executive Plan also shall be deemed to have been
waived. 

Section
7.2                      Benefits 

Except as
otherwise provided in this section (or elsewhere in the Executive Plan), the
death benefits provided by the Executive Plan shall be determined and
administered in the same manner and subject to the same terms and conditions as
the accident, sickness and pensioner death benefits provided under the Salaried
Pension Plan. 

7.2(a) 

Determination
      of Amount. The amount of a sickness, accident or pensioner death benefit
      provided by the Executive Plan shall be equal to one times the
      Participant's Final Annual Pay, reduced by the sickness, accident or
      pensioner death benefit payable with respect to the Participant under the
      Salaried Pension Plan, as applicable. In the case of a pensioner death
      benefit payable under the Executive Plan, the amount based on the
      Participant's Final Annual Pay shall be subject to the same reductions, if
      any, which are applied to the Participant's pensioner death benefit under
      the Salaried Pension Plan. 

7.2(b) 

Form
      and Time of Payment. The Committee shall determine, in its sole
      discretion, the time and form of payment for any death benefit paid under
      the Executive Plan. 

7.2(c) 

Beneficiary.
      The Participant's beneficiary for purposes of this Section 7 shall be the
      beneficiary under the Salaried Pension
Plan. 

SECTION
8                     RIGHTS
TO BENEFITS 

Section
8.1                      Entitlement
to Benefits. 

A
Participant's Executive Pension shall be based on the terms of the Executive
Plan in effect at the Participant's Termination of Employment. Entitlement to a
surviving spouse benefit under Section 6 or a death benefit under Section 7
shall accrue on the date such benefit becomes payable. Except as otherwise
provided in the Executive Plan, entitlement to other benefits described in the
Executive Plan shall accrue on the date of the Participant's Termination of
Employment. 

8.1(a) 

Assignment
      or Alienation. Except to the extent consistent with the requirements of
      section 206(d)(3) of ERISA relating to qualified domestic relations
      orders, no assignment or alienation of pensions or other benefits under
      the Executive Plan will be permitted or
  recognized. 

8.1(b) 

Payments
      to Others. Benefits payable to an individual unable to execute a proper
      receipt may be paid to another person in accordance with the standards and
      procedures established under the Salaried Pension
  Plan. 

Section
8.2                      Effect
of Reemployment 

If a
former Executive who is receiving an Executive Pension again becomes an Employee
of any Participating Company, the monthly pension otherwise payable under the
Executive  Plan during the period of reemployment shall be suspended
and forfeited. At the Executive's subsequent Termination of Employment, his or
her Executive Pension shall be recalculated, as determined by the Committee, in
the manner prescribed under the Salaried Pension Plan and the Excess Plan for
redetermining pensions following reemployment and for adjusting such pensions
for prior Executive Plan payments. 

Section
8.3                      Forfeiture
for Misconduct 

Notwithstanding
any other provision of the Executive Plan, all or a portion of the benefits that
a Participant or his or her surviving spouse, joint annuitant or beneficiaries
would otherwise be eligible to receive under the Executive Plan may be
forfeited, in the sole discretion of the Company's Board of Directors, if the
Participant is discharged by a Participating Company for cause or a
determination is made by the board of directors of a Participating Company that
the Participant engaged in misconduct in connection with his or her employment
by that Participating Company. 

Section
8.4                      Waiver
in Absence of Claims Release 

In case
of an accident resulting in the death of a Participant which entitles his or her
beneficiaries to death benefits under the Executive Plan, the beneficiaries
shall, prior to the payment of any death benefits, sign a release releasing the
Company or other Participating Company, as applicable, from all claims and
demands which the Participant and the beneficiaries had or may have against it
on account of the accident, other than claims for benefits under the Executive
Plan or under any other plan maintained by the Company or a Participating
Company. If any persons other than the beneficiaries under the Executive Plan
might legally assert claims against a Participating Company on account of the
death of the Participant, no death benefit shall be due or payable until there
have also been delivered to the Committee good and sufficient releases of all
claims, arising from or growing out of the death of the Participant, which such
other persons might legally assert against the Participating Company. The
Committee, in its discretion, may require that the releases described above also
release any other company connected with the accident, including any company
participating in the Executive Plan or the Salaried Pension Plan, and any
company with which arrangements have been made, directly or indirectly, for the
interchange of benefit obligations as described in the Salaried Pension Plan.
The determination of whether or not a death is due to accident for purposes of
this Section 8.4 shall be made by the Committee in the manner provided in the
Salaried Pension Plan. 

Section
8.5                      Waiver
by Damage Claims or Suits 

Should a
claim be presented or suit brought against the Company or any Participating
Company, other than under the Executive Plan, for damages on account of the
death of an individual who was at any time a Participant in the Executive Plan,
no death benefits shall be payable under the Executive Plan except as provided
in Section 8.6 below or unless the Committee, in its sole discretion and upon
such terms as it may prescribe, waives this provision after withdrawal of the
claim or dismissal of the suit. 

Section
8.6                      Offset
for Judgment or Settlement 

In case
any judgment is recovered against any Participating Company or any settlement is
made of any claim or suit on account of the death of an individual who was at
any time a Participant in the Executive Plan, and the amount paid to the
beneficiaries who would have received death benefits under the Executive Plan is
less than what would otherwise have been payable under the Executive Plan, the
difference between the two amounts may, in the sole discretion of the Committee,
be distributed to the beneficiaries. 

Section
8.7                      Offset
for Payments Under Law 

If any
benefit becomes payable to a Participant or his or her surviving spouse, joint
annuitant or beneficiaries under any law now in force or hereafter enacted, and
if the Committee determines that it is of the same general character as a
benefit provided by the Executive Plan, then only the excess, if any, of the
amount prescribed in the Executive Plan above the amount of the payment
prescribed by law shall be payable under the Executive Plan. In those cases
where the existence of an excess is not ascertainable by mere comparison because
of such factors as differences in the beneficiaries or the time or methods of
payment, the Committee shall have sole discretion to determine whether or not
any excess exists and to make any adjustments necessary to carry out in a fair
and equitable manner the spirit of this provision. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no benefit payable under the Executive Plan shall be reduced by
reason of any governmental benefit or pension payable on account of military
service, or by reason of any benefit provisions of the Social Security Act other
than those related to disability. 

SECTION
9                     SOURCE
OF BENEFIT PAYMENTS 

Section
9.1                      Participating
Company Liability 

Where a
Participant's Term of Employment includes service with more than one
Participating Company, or with one or more Participating Companies and one or
more non-participating corporations or partnerships, the last Participating
Company to employ the Participant as an Executive prior to his or her
Termination of Employment with entitlement to a benefit hereunder shall be
primarily liable for the full benefit payable under the Executive Plan. However,
if for any reason the primarily liable Participating Company fails to make
timely payment of an amount due to or on behalf of a Participant, the Company
shall be secondarily liable for the obligation to pay the amount due. A
Participating Company's withdrawal from participation shall not affect that
company's liability hereunder. In addition, the liability of a Participating
Company shall not be affected by any action or inaction (on the part of the
Participant, his or her surviving spouse, joint annuitant or beneficiaries, or
any company) with respect to amounts owed, including but not limited to the
granting of extensions of time or other indulgences, the failure to make timely
demand, the failure to make timely payment or the failure to give notices of any
type, other than as prescribed in Section 10.4. 

Section
9.2                     All
Benefits Unfunded 

All
benefits payable under the Executive Plan shall be paid from the Company's or
Participating Company's operating expenses, through the purchase of insurance
from an insurance company, or through a trust established by the Company and/or
the other Participating Companies for this purpose, as the Company may
determine. 

Section
9.3                      No
Right to Company Assets 

Neither
an Executive nor any other person shall acquire by reason of the Executive Plan
any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of the Company or any
other Participating Company, including, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, any specific funds, trust accounts or assets which any Participating
Company, in its sole discretion, may earmark or set aside in anticipation of a
liability under the Executive Plan. A Participating Company's obligation to pay
any amounts under the Executive Plan shall be unfunded as to the Executive whose
rights shall be those of a general unsecured creditor. 

SECTION
10                  ADMINISTRATION 

Section
10.1                   Plan
Sponsor 

The
Company shall be the sponsor of the Executive Plan as that term is defined in
ERISA. 

Section
10.2                   Plan
Administrator 

The
Executive Vice President-Human Resources of the Company shall be the Plan
Administrator as that term is defined in ERISA. The Plan Administrator shall
have the specific powers granted to him elsewhere in the Executive Plan and
shall also have such other powers as may be necessary in order to administer the
Executive Plan in his sole discretion, except for those powers granted or
provided to be granted to others by the Executive Plan. The Plan Administrator
shall determine conclusively for all parties all questions arising in the
administration of the Executive Plan and, insofar as permitted by applicable
law, any decision of the Plan Administrator shall not be subject to further
review. The Plan Administrator, acting in his or her absolute discretion, shall
have the duty and authority to interpret and construe the provisions of the
Executive Plan and to decide all questions which may arise or be raised under
the Executive Plan by any Executive, Participant, former Participant,
beneficiary or any other person including, but not limited to all questions
relating to eligibility to participate in the Executive Plan, the amount of
service accrued by the Participant and the amount of the Executive Pension to
which a Participant or his or her beneficiary may be entitled. 

Section
10.3                  
 Procedure To Approve and Deny Claims 

The
Committee shall have sole discretion to determine the rights of Participants (or
their surviving spouses, joint annuitants or other beneficiaries) to benefits
under the Executive Plan, and to authorize disbursements under the Executive
Plan. In all questions relating to age and service for eligibility for any
benefit under the Executive Plan, or relating to service and rates of pay for
determining benefits payable under the Executive Plan, the decisions of the
Committee, based upon the Executive Plan and upon the records of the
Participating Companies employing the individual, shall be final insofar as
permitted by applicable law. The Committee may adopt such rules of procedure as
it may find appropriate. A claim for benefits under the Executive Plan shall be
deemed denied unless the decision of the Committee is sent within 90 days of its
receipt of the claim (or within 180 days, if the Committee extends the time by
notifying the claimant in writing of the special circumstances requiring an
extension and the date by which the decision is expected). If a claim is denied
in whole or part by the Committee, it shall send a written decision stating (i)
the specific reasons for the denial, making specific reference to pertinent
provisions of the Executive Plan; (ii) what additional information, if any,
would help perfect the claim for benefits; and (iii) what steps the claimant
must take to submit the claim for review. 

Section
10.4                    Review
Procedure 

The Board
of Directors of the Company shall serve as the final review committee, under the
Executive Plan and ERISA, for the review of all claims appealed by Participants
(or their surviving spouses, joint annuitants or other beneficiaries) whose
initial claims for benefits have been denied, in whole or in part, by the
Committee. Within 60 days after the date of a denial by the Committee, the
claimant may file a written request for the Board of Directors of the Company to
review the denial. Such request for review must be made in a timely manner for
the purpose of seeking any further review of a decision or determining any
entitlement to a benefit under the Executive Plan. In such a case, the Board of
Directors of the Company shall conduct a full and fair review of the Committee's
decision and notify the claimant in writing of the review decision, specifying
the reasons for the decision and the provisions of the Executive Plan on which
it is based. A claim shall be deemed denied unless the decision on appeal is
sent within 60 days (or within 120 days, if the Board of Directors of the
Company extends the time to respond by notifying the claimant in writing of the
special circumstances requiring an extension of time). 

Section
10.5                   Further
ERISA Rights 

Any
Participant (or surviving spouse, joint annuitant or other beneficiary) whose
claim for benefits has been denied upon review shall have such further rights as
are provided in section 503 of ERISA and the regulations thereunder. The
Company, the Board of Directors of the Company, the Committee and the Executive
Vice President-Human Resources of the Company shall retain such rights,
authority and discretion as are provided or not expressly limited by section 503
of ERISA and the regulations thereunder. 

Section
10.6                   Named
Fiduciaries 

The
Company, each Participating Company, the Board of Directors of the Company, the
Committee and the Executive Vice President-Human Resources of the Company are
each a named fiduciary to the Executive Plan as that term is used in ERISA with
respect to the particular duties and responsibilities allocated to each of them.
Any person or group of persons may serve in more than one fiduciary capacity
with respect to the Executive Plan. 

Section
10.7                    Allocation
of Responsibilities 

The
Company, the Committee, the Executive Vice President-Human Resources of the
Company and each Participating Company may designate in writing other persons to
carry out their respective responsibilities under the Executive Plan and may
employ persons to advise them with regard to any such
responsibilities. 

Section
10.8                   Administrative
Expenses 

The
expenses of administering the Executive Plan shall be apportioned among the
Participating Companies, as determined by the Plan Administrator. 

SECTION
11                  AMENDMENT
AND TERMINATION 

Section
11.1                    Plan
Amendment 

The
Company may from time to time make any changes in the Executive Plan which it
deems appropriate, with or without notice to Participants, by appropriate action
of its Board of Directors. In addition, the Plan Administrator, with the
approval of the Executive Vice President Human Resources and General Counsel of
the Company, shall be authorized to make minor or administrative changes to the
Executive Plan, as well as changes dictated by the requirements of federal or
state statutes applicable to the Company or authorized or made desirable by such
statutes. However, in recognition of the reliance placed upon the Executive Plan
and its contractual nature in inducing the change in position caused by
retirement, any such change or modification shall not result in the cessation or
reduction of benefits to retired individuals or their surviving spouses or joint
annuitants, nor shall such modification affect the rights of any individual to
any benefit to which he or she may have previously become entitled under the
Executive Plan. 

Section
11.2                    Plan
Termination 

At any
time, for any reason, and with or without notice to Participants, the Company
retains the right to terminate the Executive Plan in whole or in part by
appropriate action of its Board of Directors, and each Participating Company
retains the right to withdraw from the Executive Plan. Neither termination of
the Executive Plan nor withdrawal by a Participating Company shall result the
cessation or reduction of benefits to any retired Participant (or his or her
surviving spouse, joint annuitant or other beneficiary), or affect the rights of
any individual to any benefit to which he or she may have previously become
entitled under the Executive Plan. A Participating Company's withdrawal from
participation shall not affect that company's liability to provide benefits to a
Participant as described in Section 9.1 of the Executive Plan. 

SECTION
12                   DEFINITIONS 

"Annuity Start Date" means the date
as of which the Participant's or surviving spouse's Qualified Pension Benefit
commences or is paid. 

"Applicable Interest Rate" has the
same meaning as under the Salaried Pension Plan. 

"Basic Benefit" means the Total
Benefit determined under the Basic Benefit formula, as set forth in Section
3.3. 

"Basic Rate" means the uniform
percentage (5%) of a Participant's Pay or Cash Balance Conversion Pay (as
applicable) that is used in conjunction with a Participant's Supplementary Rate
to determine the ongoing monthly Pay-based allocations credited to a
Participant's Executive Account and to construct the opening balance of a
Participant's Executive Account. 

"Cash Balance Benefit" means the
Total Benefit determined under the cash balance benefit formula, as set forth in
Section 3.5. 

"Cash Balance Conversion Pay" means a
Participant's base pay for the 12 months ending June 30, 1996 (or, if earlier,
the Participant's Termination of Employment after March 22, 1996, but before
July 1, 1996), whether or not deferred, plus the Participant's Final Average
Monthly STIP Awards for the 12 months ending June 30, 1996 (or, if earlier, the
Participant's Termination of Employment after March 22, 1996, but before July 1,
1996), whether or not deferred. Any changes in the rate of base pay during the
applicable computation period shall be taken into account. 

"Cash Balance Interest" means the
monthly rate of interest which, when compounded, equals the effective annual
rate of interest applicable to 30-year Constant Maturity Treasury securities for
the second calendar month preceding the calendar quarter containing the relevant
month, provided that in no event shall the annualized rate exceed 9% in any year
through the end of the year 2000. 

"Cashout Factor" has the same meaning
as under the Salaried Pension Plan. 

"CFEP Executive" means a Select
Officer who meets the requirements of Section 2.4. 

"CFEP Factor" means the Cashout
Factor that would have applied if the CFEP Executive had terminated employment
as of December 30, 1996, but based on such Participant's age at his or her
Annuity Start Date. 

"Committee" means the Compensation
and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. 

"Company" means Pacific Telesis
Group, a Nevada corporation, or its successors. 

"Effective Date" means, with respect
to the initial adoption of the Executive Plan,  July 1, 1995. The
Effective Date of this amendment and restatement is July 1, 1996. 

"Employee" has the same meaning as
under the Salaried Pension Plan. 

"Employer Group" has the same meaning
as under the Salaried Pension Plan. 

"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as it may be amended from time to
time. 

"Excess Plan" means the Pacific
Telesis Group Excess Benefit Plan. 

"Executive" means an Officer of any
Participating Company or any other Employee who is designated by the Committee
to be within a Participating Company's executive group for purposes of the
Executive Plan. 

"Executive Account" means the
unfunded bookkeeping account established for each Participant to record the
opening account balance, Pay-based allocations and Cash Balance Interest credits
determined under Section 3.5. An account shall be maintained solely for record
keeping purposes and 

        without
segregation of any assets. 

"Executive Pension" means the pension
determined under Section 3.1. 

"Executive Plan" means the Pacific
Telesis Group Executive Supplemental Cash Balance Plan. 

"Existing Participant" means an
Executive who was a Participant on March 22, 1996, or who became a Participant
after March 22 1996, but on or before June 30, 1996. 

"Final Annual Pay," which is used in
determining the death benefit in Section 7.2(a)(1), means the Participant's
annual rate of base pay (whether or not deferred) on the last day he or she was
on the active payroll of a Participating Company plus the Participant's annual
Standard Award as determined under the Short Term Incentive Plan on the last day
he or she was on the active payroll. 

"Final Average Monthly Base Pay,"
which is used in determining the Regular Basic Benefit in Section 3.3(b)(1) and
the Officer Minimum Benefit in Section 3.4(b)(1), means the average of the
Participant's monthly rates of base pay, whether or not deferred, for the
applicable period. 

"Final Average Monthly STIP Award,"
as used in Section 3.3(b)(1) and Section 3.4(b)(1) means the average of the
Participant's Monthly STIP Awards for the applicable period. 

"Intended Termination Month" means
the month specified by the Committee following the close of the merger between
the Company and SBC Communications Inc., as it may be amended by agreement of
the parties. 

"Interest" means hypothetical
earnings on an account balance, which shall be calculated in the manner
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee may, but is
not required to, calculate Interest based on the interest rate used to calculate
the Present Value of a Participant's Executive Pension as of a Participant's
Annuity Start Date. 

"Joint Venture Employer" has the
meaning set forth in the Salaried Pension Plan. 

"Mandatory Retirement Age" means age
65 for those Participants who meet the requirements of section 12(c)(1) of the
Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended ("ADEA"); or as
permitted under the ADEA, for those Participants for whom age is a bona fide
occupational qualification within the meaning of section 4(f)(1) of the ADEA.
There shall be no Mandatory Retirement Age for other Participants, if
any. 

"Mid-Career Account" means the
hypothetical unfunded bookkeeping account established for a participant in the
Mid-Career Plan. 

"Mid-Career Plan" means the
hypothetical unfunded bookkeeping account established for a participant in the
Mid-Career Plan. 

"Mid-Career Plan" means the Pacific
Telesis Group Mid-Career Cash Balance Plan. 

"Monthly STIP Award" means, for any
month in a calendar year, 1/12 of the Participant's annual Standard Award
(whether or not deferred) as set forth under the Short Term Incentive Plan for
that calendar year. In the case of Participants who were Employees on the
Separation Date and who had participated in the PacTel Corporation Short Term
Incentive Plan, the Monthly STIP Award for any month before April 1, 1994,
during such participation means 1/12 of the Participant's annual standard award
under the PacTel Corporation Short Term Incentive Plan, as adjusted for changes
in position rate. 

"Officer" means an individual elected
or appointed to, and serving in, one or more of the following
positions: 

(1) 

a
      position with the Company described in the bylaws of the Company as that
      of an officer, other than an assistant officer
  position; 

(2) 

a
      position with Pacific Bell described in the bylaws of Pacific Bell as that
      of an officer, other than an assistant officer position;
  or 

(3) 

a
      position with any Participating Company for which there is in effect a
      specific designation by the Committee that the position shall be
      considered to be that of an Officer for purposes of the benefit and
      retirement plans. 

An
Officer also means a named Employee of any Participating Company for which there
is in effect a specific designation by the Committee that the named Employee
shall be included in the definition of "Officer" for purposes of the benefit and
retirement plans. 

"Officer Minimum Benefit" means the
Total Benefit determined under the Officer Minimum Benefit formula, as set forth
in Section 3.3. 

"Officer Supplemental Benefit" means
the Total Benefit determined under the Officer Supplemental Benefit formula, as
set forth in Section 3.6. 

"PacTel Account Benefit," which is
used to reduce the Officer Minimum Benefit in Section 3.4(b),means a monthly
pension, commencing as of the Participant's Annuity Start Date, whose Present
Value equals the sum of the following amounts: 

(1) 

the
      value of the Basic Account under the PacTel Retirement Plan on the
      Separation Date, plus Interest to the Annuity Start
  Date; 

(2) 

the
      value of the Variable Account under the PacTel Retirement Plan on the
      Separation Date, plus Interest to the Annuity Start
  Date; 

(3) 

the
      value of the Transition Account under the PacTel Retirement Plan on the
      Separation Date, plus Interest to the Annuity Start
  Date; 

(4) 

the
      amount of all withdrawals and distributions made from the Basic, Variable
      and Transition Accounts under the PacTel Retirement Plan prior to the
      Separation Date, plus Interest from the date of withdrawal to the Annuity
      Start Date; and 

(5) 

the
      value of the Participant's accounts attributable to Company contributions
      under the PacTel Corporation Excess Benefit Plan and the PacTel
      Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan as of the Separation Date, other
      than Company "matching" contributions, plus Interest to the Annuity Start
      Date. (As of the Separation Date, assets and liabilities attributable to
      these plans were transferred to the AirTouch Communications Excess Benefit
      Plan.) 

"PacTel Employee" means a Participant
who was employed by PacTel Corporation or any of its subsidiaries
(if  such subsidiary was a participating company in the PacTel
Corporation Employees Pension Plan) before the Separation Date. 

"PacTel Pension Benefit," which is
used to reduce the Officer Minimum Benefit in Section 3.4(b), means the sum of
the pensions payable at age 65 that were accrued as of the Separation Date under
the AirTouch Communications Employees Pension Plan (other than any pension
payable under Supplements A, B and C of that plan) and the AirTouch
Communications Supplemental Executive Pension Plan, except that each pension
shall be adjusted for early payment, under the terms of its plan in effect at
the Separation Date, as if the Participant's annuity under the plan commenced on
the Participant's Annuity Start Date under those plans, if received as a service
pension, or on the Annuity Start Date under this Plan, if received as a vested
pension. 

"PacTel Retirement Plan" means the
defined contribution plan maintained by the Company before the Separation Date
for the benefit of employees of PacTel Corporation and its subsidiaries. Its
formal name was the PacTel Corporation Retirement Plan. (As of the Separation
Date, assets and liabilities attributable to this plan were transferred to the
AirTouch Communications Retirement Plan). 

"Participant" means an Employee
described in Section 2.1 of the Executive Plan and, to the extent that other
Employees who participated in the Executive Plan or a Predecessor Plan are
specifically included, such other Employees. 

"Participating Companies" mean the
Company and each other corporation or partnership that both (a) participates in
the Salaried Pension Plan and (b) has determined, with the concurrence of the
Company's Board of Directors, to participate in this Plan. 

"Pay" means a Participant's base pay,
whether or not deferred, plus the Participant's Standard Award, whether or not
deferred. For purposes of determining the ongoing Pay-based allocations under
Section 3.5, the Standard Award shall be taken into account in the month in
which it is paid. 

"Plan Administrator" means the
Executive Vice President-Human Resources of the Company, as set forth in Section
10.2. 

"Predecessor Plans" mean the Pacific
Telesis Group Executive Non-Salaried Pension Plan, the  Pacific
Telesis Group Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, and the minimum pension
and related welfare and surviving spouse benefit provisions of the Pacific
Telesis Group Executive Disability and Survivor Protection Plan (formerly called
the Pacific Telesis Group Senior Management Long Term Disability and Survivor
Protection Plan). It also means the predecessor plan to those plans, i.e., the
Bell System Senior Management Non-Salaried Pension Plan. 

"Present Value" means a single sum
which is actuarially equivalent to a monthly pension commencing as of a
specified date and payable for the Participant's life determined by using
Standard Factors. 

"Qualified Pension Benefit" means the
part of a Participant's Total Benefit payable from the pension fund associated
with the Salaried Pension Plan. Such benefit shall be adjusted for early payment
if applicable and further adjusted for any additional pension actually payable
after the Annuity Start Date due to increased limits under section 415 of the
Internal Revenue Code. However, if a Participant is not an Executive at his or
her Termination of Employment and if nonqualified pension benefits are payable
under the Excess Plan due to limits under sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the
Internal Revenue Code, then the term Qualified Pension Benefit, for purposes of
determining the appropriate offset, shall include the nonqualified pension
benefits payable under the Excess Plan. Any ad hoc or other increases payable
under the Salaried Pension Plan after the Annuity Start Date (other than
increases due to section 415 limits) shall not be included in the amount of the
Participant's Qualified Pension Benefit. 

"Regular Surviving Spouse Benefit"
means the Total Benefit of the surviving spouse of an Existing Participant
determined under the formula set forth in Section 6.3. 

"Salaried Pension Plan" means the
Pacific Telesis Group Cash Balance Pension Plan for Salaried
Employees. 

"Select Officer" means a Participant
designated by the Committee or its delegate as providing services in the
position then held by the Participant that are critical to the efficient
operation of the Company through, and continuing after, the merger of the
Company and SBC Communications Inc. 

"Separation Date" means April 1,
1994, the date as of which occurred the total and complete separation of the
ownership of PacTel Corporation from the Company. 

"Short Term Incentive Plan" means the
Pacific Telesis Group Short Term Incentive Plan and its predecessor
plan. 

"Standard Award" shall have the
meaning set forth in the Short Term Incentive Plan, which includes adjustments
for changes in position rate. 

"Standard Factor" has the same
meaning as under the Salaried Pension Plan. 

"Supplementary Rate" means the rate
used to construct a Participant's opening account balance under Section 3.5(c)
and to make ongoing Pay-based allocations to the Participant's Executive Account
or Mid-Career Account. The Supplementary Rate of a Participant hired on or after
July 1, 1996 shall be the percentage specified in Appendix A based on the
Participant's age at hire, subject to any inconsistent or overriding provision
in an employment agreement between the Participant and the Company. The
Supplementary Rate of an Existing Participant shall be the rate that, in
combination with the Participant's Basic Rate, is designed to provide a
projected Total Benefit under the Executive Plan payable at age 65 that is a
specified percentage of the projected Total Benefit that would have been payable
to the Participant under the terms of the Salaried Pension Plan, Mid-Career Plan
and Executive Plan as in effect at March 21, 1996. The Supplementary Rate of
each Existing Participant is defined in an administrative document held by
Executive Compensation and Benefits, the provisions of which are effective as of
July 1, 1996, and not subject to amendment thereafter. 

"Surviving Spouse Cash Balance
Benefit" means the Total Benefit of the surviving spouse of a Participant
determined under the cash balance benefit formula in Section 6.4. 

"Term of Employment" means the number
of years and months credited to the Participant as of the applicable
determination date. A Participant's Term of Employment (i) includes all periods
that the Participant was employed by the Company, other companies participating
in the Salaried Pension Plan, certain Joint Venture Employers, and certain
predecessor employers; (ii) does not include service before a break in service
until such service is "bridged" as provided in the Salaried Pension Plan; and
(iii) excludes any period of employment which was transferred from the Salaried
Pension Plan to the PacTel Corporation Employees Pension Plan effective before
the Separation Date and was included in the Participant's service recognized by
that plan as of the Separation Date. 

"Termination of Employment" has the
same meaning as under the Salaried Pension Plan. 

"Total Account" means the
hypothetical unfunded bookkeeping account established for each participant in
the Excess Plan. 

"Total Benefit" means the benefit
payable to a Participant (or surviving spouse, in the event of a Participant's
death) under the Salaried Pension Plan and the Executive Plan. 

"Years of Credited Service" means the
number of whole and partial years credited to the Participant for purposes of
calculating the monthly pension under the Salaried Pension Plan except that, as
provided in Section 3.2(c) above, if a Participant is not an Executive at his or
her Termination of Employment, the years so credited under the Salaried Pension
Plan after the Participant ceased serving as an Executive shall be disregarded.
As provided under the Salaried Pension Plan as in effect at March 21, 1996, a
Participant's Years of Credited Service (i) reflect an adjustment for part- time
employment; (ii) do not include periods of service with a non-Participating
Company without a transfer of assets and corresponding liabilities; (iii) do not
include periods that the Participant was employed by PacTel Corporation (and its
subsidiaries) between January 1, 1987, and the Separation Date unless the
Participant was an Employee on the Separation Date and had been a full accrual
participant under the PacTel Corporation Employees Pension Plan before the
Separation Date; (iv) do not include periods of service before a break in
service until such service is "bridged" as provided in the Salaried Pension Plan
(provided, however, that for purposes of determining a Participant's Basic
Benefit, Years of Credited Service shall include any service that could be
bridged as of June 30, 1996); and (v) are limited to the greater of 30 years or
the actual years accrued as of December 31, 1994. 

"Years of Officer Service" means the
number of whole and partial 365-day periods during which the Participant was
continuously employed as an Officer of a Participating Company. In addition,
Years of Officer Service include periods of service with other members of the
Employer Group or Joint Venture Employers (non-Participating Companies) if such
service is included in the Participant's Term of Employment and if the position
in which the Participant served at the non-Participating Company is designated
by the Committee to be the equivalent of an Officer position for purposes of
this Plan. Such service with non-Participating Companies shall not be considered
a break in the continuity of Years of Officer Service for purposes of Sections
3.3(a) and (b). If a Participant has a break in the continuity of Years of
Officer Service which does not exceed six months, service before and after the
break shall be included in the Participant's Years of Officer Service. However,
if a Participant is reemployed after a break of more than six (6) months in the
continuity of Years of Officer Service, the Participant's service before the
break shall not be included in his or her Years of Officer Service until the
Participant completes 5 Years of Officer Service after reemployment. Subject to
these break-in-service rules, service as an Officer with a company that
participated in a Predecessor Plan before the Separation Date (including PacTel
Corporation) shall be included in the Participant's Years of Officer Service,
regardless of whether or not such service is included in the Participant's Term
of Employment after the Separation Date. 

APPENDIX
A -- SUPPLEMENTARY RATE 

Percentage
of Pay 

                           Age
at Hire       Allocation 

                           -----------            ----------------- 

40                      2.9% 

                               41                      3.4% 

                               42                      3.9% 

                               43                      4.5% 

                               44                      5.1% 

                               45                      5.8% 

                               46                      6.6% 

                               47                      7.3% 

                               48                      7.9% 

                               49                      8.1% 

                               50                      8.3% 

                               51                      8.6% 

                               52                      8.8% 

                               53                      9.1% 

                               54                      9.3% 

                               55                      9.6% 

                               56                      9.8% 

                               57                     10.1% 

                               58                     10.3% 

                               59                     10.6% 

                               60                     10.9% 

APPENDIX
B -- OPENING BALANCE FACTORS 

Opening
Balance Factors Under 1%/8% Cash Balance Plan 

        (Based on
Final Year's Pay and Service as of 6/30/96) 

-
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

                                Months 

         ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

        Years     0         1          
2               3           4              5             6         7       8        9          
  10          
11 

        -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

          0  0.0000    0.0009    0.0017    0.0026    0.0035    0.0043    0.0052    0.0061    0.0069    0.0078    0.0087    0.0095 

          1  0.0104    0.0113    0.0122    0.0131    0.0140    0.0149    0.0158    0.0166    0.0175    0.0184    0.0193    0.0202 

          2  0.0211    0.0220    0.0229    0.0239    0.0248    0.0257    0.0266    0.0275    0.0284    0.0294    0.0303    0.0312 

          3  0.0321    0.0331    0.0340    0.0350    0.0359    0.0369    0.0379    0.0388    0.0398    0.0407    0.0417    0.0426 

          4  0.0436    0.0446    0.0456    0.0466    0.0475    0.0485    0.0495    0.0505    0.0515    0.0525    0.0534    0.0544 

          5  0.0554    0.0564    0.0574    0.0585    0.0595    0.0605    0.0615    0.0625    0.0635    0.0646    0.0656    0.0666 

          6  0.0676    0.0687    0.0697    0.0708    0.0718    0.0729    0.0739    0.0750    0.0760    0.0771    0.0781    0.0792 

          7  0.0802    0.0813    0.0824    0.0835    0.0846    0.0857    0.0868    0.0878    0.0889    0.0900    0.0911    0.0922 

          8  0.0933    0.0944    0.0956    0.0967    0.0978    0.0989    0.1001    0.1012    0.1023    0.1034    0.1046    0.1057 

          9  0.1068    0.1080    0.1091    0.1103    0.1114    0.1126    0.1138    0.1149    0.1161    0.1172    0.1184    0.1195 

         10  0.1207    0.1219    0.1231    0.1243    0.1255    0.1267    0.1279    0.1291    0.1303    0.1315    0.1327    0.1339 

         11  0.1351    0.1363    0.1376    0.1388    0.1401    0.1413    0.1426    0.1438    0.1450    0.1463    0.1475    0.1488 

         12  0.1500    0.1513    0.1526    0.1539    0.1551    0.1564    0.1577    0.1590    0.1603    0.1616    0.1628    0.1641 

         13  0.1654    0.1667    0.1681    0.1694    0.1707    0.1720    0.1734    0.1747    0.1760    0.1773    0.1787    0.1800 

         14  0.1813    0.1827    0.1840    0.1854    0.1868    0.1881    0.1895    0.1909    0.1922    0.1936    0.1950    0.1963 

         15  0.1977    0.1991    0.2005    0.2020    0.2034    0.2048    0.2062    0.2076    0.2090    0.2105    0.2119    0.2133 

         16  0.2147    0.2162    0.2176    0.2191    0.2206    0.2220    0.2235    0.2250    0.2264    0.2279    0.2294    0.2308 

         17  0.2323    0.2338    0.2353    0.2368    0.2383    0.2398    0.2414    0.2429    0.2444    0.2459    0.2474    0.2489 

         18  0.2504    0.2520    0.2535    0.2551    0.2566    0.2582    0.2598    0.2613    0.2629    0.2644    0.2660    0.2675 

         19  0.2691    0.2707    0.2723    0.2740    0.2756    0.2772    0.2788    0.2804    0.2820    0.2837    0.2853    0.2869 

         20  0.2885    0.2902    0.2919    0.2935    0.2952    0.2969    0.2986    0.3002    0.3019    0.3036    0.3053    0.3069 

         21  0.3086    0.3103    0.3120    0.3138    0.3155    0.3172    0.3189    0.3206    0.3223    0.3241    0.3258    0.3275 

         22  0.3292    0.3310    0.3328    0.3346    0.3363    0.3381    0.3399    0.3417    0.3435    0.3453    0.3470    0.3488 

         23  0.3506    0.3524    0.3543    0.3561    0.3580    0.3598    0.3617    0.3635    0.3653    0.3672    0.3690    0.3709 

         24  0.3727    0.3746    0.3765    0.3784    0.3803    0.3822    0.3842    0.3861    0.3880    0.3899    0.3918    0.3937 

         25  0.3956    0.3976    0.3995    0.4015    0.4035    0.4054    0.4074    0.4094    0.4113    0.4133    0.4153    0.4172 

APPENDIX
B -- OPENING BALANCE FACTORS (Cont'd.) 

Opening
Balance Factors Under 1%/8% Cash Balance Plan 

        (Based on
Final Year's Pay and Service as of 6/30/96) 

-
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

                                Months 

        -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

        Years     0       
  1          
  2         
  3         
   4        
    5         
    6          
   7         
   8      
     9       
   10     
     11 

        -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

         26     0.4192    0.4212    0.4233    0.4253    0.4273    0.4294    0.4314    0.4334    0.4355    0.4375    0.4395    0.4416 

         27  0.4436    0.4457    0.4478    0.4499    0.4520    0.4541    0.4562    0.4583    0.4604    0.4625    0.4646    0.4667 

         28  0.4688    0.4710    0.4732    0.4753    0.4775    0.4797    0.4819    0.4840    0.4862    0.4884    0.4906    0.4927 

         29  0.4949    0.4971    0.4994    0.5016    0.5039    0.5061    0.5084    0.5106    0.5128    0.5151    0.5173    0.5196 

         30  0.5218    0.5241    0.5265    0.5288    0.5311    0.5334    0.5358    0.5381    0.5404    0.5427    0.5451    0.5474 

         31  0.5497    0.5521    0.5545    0.5569    0.5593    0.5617    0.5641    0.5664    0.5688    0.5712    0.5736    0.5760 

         32  0.5784    0.5809    0.5834    0.5859    0.5883    0.5908    0.5933    0.5958    0.5983    0.6008    0.6032    0.6057 

         33  0.6082    0.6108    0.6133    0.6159    0.6184    0.6210    0.6236    0.6261    0.6287    0.6312    0.6338    0.6363 

         34  0.6389    0.6416    0.6442    0.6469    0.6495    0.6522    0.6548    0.6575    0.6601    0.6628    0.6654    0.6681 

         35  0.6707    0.6734    0.6762    0.6789    0.6816    0.6844    0.6871    0.6898    0.6926    0.6953    0.6980    0.7008 

         36  0.7035    0.7063    0.7092    0.7120    0.7148    0.7176    0.7205    0.7233    0.7261    0.7289    0.7318    0.7346 

         37  0.7374    0.7403    0.7433    0.7462    0.7491    0.7520    0.7550    0.7579    0.7608    0.7637    0.7667    0.7696 

         38  0.7725    0.7755    0.7785    0.7816    0.7846    0.7876    0.7906    0.7936    0.7966    0.7997    0.8027    0.8057 

         39  0.8087    0.8118    0.8149    0.8181    0.8212    0.8243    0.8274    0.8305    0.8336    0.8368    0.8399    0.8430 

         40  0.8461    0.8493    0.8526    0.8558    0.8590    0.8622    0.8655    0.8687    0.8719    0.8751    0.8784    0.8816 

         41  0.8848    0.8881    0.8915    0.8948    0.8981    0.9015    0.9048    0.9081    0.9115    0.9148    0.9181    0.9215 

         42  0.9248    0.9283    0.9317    0.9352    0.9386    0.9421    0.9455    0.9490    0.9524    0.9559    0.9593    0.9628 

         43  0.9662    0.9698    0.9733    0.9769    0.9804    0.9840    0.9876    0.9911    0.9947    0.9982    1.0018    1.0053 

         44  1.0089    1.0126    1.0163    1.0199    1.0236    1.0273    1.0310    1.0346    1.0383    1.0420    1.0457    1.0493 

         45  1.0530    1.0568    1.0606    1.0644    1.0682    1.0720    1.0759    1.0797    1.0835    1.0873    1.0911    1.0949 

         46  1.0987    1.1026    1.1066    1.1105    1.1144    1.1183    1.1223    1.1262    1.1301    1.1340    1.1380    1.1419 

         47  1.1458    1.1499    1.1539    1.1580    1.1621    1.1661    1.1702    1.1743    1.1783    1.1824    1.1865    1.1905 

</EX-10.LLL>

<EX-10.MMM>
 41
 ex10mmm.htm
 PTG 1996 EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMP PLAN

ex10mmm.htm 

Exhibit
10-mmm 

PACIFIC
TELESIS GROUP 

        1996
EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

        (Adopted
Effective December 1, 1995) 

SECTION
1.                    Purpose. 

The
Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan")
provides certain Officers of the Company with an opportunity to defer
compensation and accrue earnings on a pre-tax basis and with an opportunity to
receive employer matching contributions that cannot be provided to them under
the Pacific Telesis Group Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Salaried
Employees ("the Savings Plan") because of the limitations imposed by section
401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
"Code"). 

SECTION
2.                   
Eligibility to Participate. 

The
following employees are eligible to participate in the Plan: 

(A)      Officers of
      Pacific Telesis Group and/or Pacific
Bell; 

(B)      The
      Officers of any Affiliate of Pacific Telesis Group who are specifically
      designated to participate by the PTG Board and the Board of Directors or
      other governing body of such
Affiliate. 

SECTION
3.                 Plan
Accounts. 

3.1      Establishment
      of Account. An account shall be established for each eligible employee who
      elects to become a participant in the Plan in accordance with the
      procedures set forth in Section 4 of the Plan. The account shall be
      credited with allocations and earnings under Sections 4, 5 and 6 and
      debited with distributions under Section 7 of the
  Plan. 

3.2      No
      Funding or Assignment. For income tax purposes under the Code and for
      purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
      1974, as amended ("ERISA"), it is intended that this Plan constitute an
      unfunded deferred compensation arrangement. The amounts credited to Plan
      accounts for employees of each participating Company shall be held in the
      general funds of such participating Company. All amounts in such accounts,
      including all Compensation deferred by an employee, shall remain an asset
      of the participating Company. A participating Company shall not be
      required to reserve or otherwise set aside funds for the payment of
      amounts credited to Plan accounts. The obligation of a participating
      Company to pay benefits under the Plan constitutes a mere promise to make
      benefit payments in the future, and shall be unfunded as to the employee,
      whose rights shall be those of a general unsecured creditor. Title to and
      beneficial ownership of any assets which a participating Company may set
      aside or otherwise designate to make payments under the Plan shall at all
      times remain in the participating Company, and the employee shall not have
      any property interest in any specific assets of a participating Company.
      The rights of an employee or his or her beneficiary to benefit payments
      under the Plan are not subject in any manner to assignment, alienation,
      pledge or garnishment by creditors. 

SECTION
4.                  Deferred
Compensation. 

4.1      Annual
      Deferral and Distribution Election. An eligible employee may elect to
      participate in the Plan prior to the beginning of any calendar year, or
      within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan, or
      within 30 days of becoming eligible to participate in a feature of the
      Plan with respect to such Plan feature. An employee's election shall
      direct that compensation in one or more of the following categories
      (collectively "Compensation") be deferred and credited to an account under
      the Plan, subject to the limitations and effectiveness prescribed for each
      category of Compensation, and shall direct that such Compensation,
      together with all other amounts credited under the Plan with respect to
      such Compensation under Section 5 (Company Match) and Section 6
      (Earnings), shall be distributed in accordance with a distribution option
      set forth in Section 7. 

(A)      Salary.
      An employee may elect to defer part of his or her base annual compensation
      ("Salary") otherwise payable for services performed in a calendar year,
      but not less than $2,500 nor more than 80% of salary. Such election shall
      become effective for Salary otherwise payable for services performed in
      the payroll period beginning, (i) in the case of an employee who makes an
      election within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in the
      Plan, immediately subsequent to the election or (ii) in all other cases,
      on the first day of the calendar year to which the election applies. An
      election related to Salary otherwise payable for services performed in any
      calendar year shall become irrevocable, (x) in the case of an election
      made within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan,
      on the last day before the applicable payroll period for which the
      election becomes effective, or (y) in all other cases, on the last day
      prior to the beginning of such calendar
year. 

(B)      STIP.
      An employee may elect to defer all or part, but not less than $5,000, of
      his or her awards under the Pacific Telesis Group Short-Term Incentive
      Plan, or a similar or successor incentive compensation plan or program of
      Pacific Telesis Group or an Affiliate ("STIP"), for services performed in
      a calendar year and otherwise payable in the calendar year following such
      calendar year. Such election may be made with respect to services to be
      performed (i) in the remainder of the year in which the employee first
      becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, provided the election is made
      prior to October 1 st 
      of such year, which election shall become effective for STIP earned with
      respect to services performed beginning with the payroll period
      immediately subsequent to the election, or (ii) in the next following
      calendar year, which election on shall become effective on the first day
      of the calendar year to which the election applies in all other cases. An
      election related to the STIP award for services performed in a calendar
      year shall become irrevocable (x) in the case of an election made within
      30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan, on the last
      day before the applicable payroll period for which the election becomes
      effective, or (y) in all other cases, on the last day prior to the
      beginning of such calendar year. 

(C)      LTIP.
      An employee may elect to defer all or part, but not less than $5,000, of
      his or her awards under the Pacific Telesis Group Senior Management
      Long-Term Incentive Plan or a similar or successor long term incentive
      compensation plan of Pacific Telesis Group or an Affiliate ("LTIP"), for
      services performed in a multiple-year performance period and otherwise
      payable in a calendar year following such performance period. An election
      related to the LTIP award otherwise payable for services performed in a
      performance period shall become irrevocable on the last day prior to the
      beginning of the performance period applicable to that LTIP
      award. 

(D)      Other
      Awards. An employee may elect to defer all or part of his or her awards
      under any other bonus, special award, or any other similar form of
      compensation ("Other Awards") otherwise payable to him or her by a
      participating Company with respect to services performed in a calendar
      year. An election related to Other Awards otherwise payable in a calendar
      year shall become irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning of
      such calendar year. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in no event shall deferrals under the Plan include that portion
of Compensation required for all applicable tax, Social Security and employee
benefit plan withholding, whether or not such withholding requirement is related
to this Plan. 

4.2      Form of
      Election, Modification or Termination. An employee's election or written
      notice of modification or termination of any prior election shall be made
      in accordance with procedures established by the Plan Administrator, in
      the form of a document approved by the Plan Administrator, executed by the
      employee and filed with the Plan Administrator or his or her designee. An
      election which has not become irrevocable may be modified, terminated or
      reinstated by the employee prior to the time such election would have
      become irrevocable as provided in Section 4.1. An election with respect to
      Salary, STIP or Other Awards for services performed in a calendar year
      and/or with respect to LTIP for services performed in a multiple-year
      performance period shall be deemed irrevocably terminated when the
      employee, whether by transfer or termination of employment, ceases to be
      eligible to participate in the Plan during such calendar year and/or such
      multiple-year performance period (as
  applicable). 

4.3      Modification of
      Irrevocable Election by the Committee. Upon receipt of a written request
      made by or on behalf of an employee, the Committee in its sole discretion
      may modify or terminate the employee's election with respect to
      Compensation otherwise payable in a calendar year as it deems necessary to
      prevent extreme financial hardship to the employee, notwithstanding that
      the election has become effective and irrevocable as provided in Section
      4.1. 

4.4      Allocation to
      Accounts. Deferred amounts related to Compensation which would otherwise
      have been paid by a participating Company shall be credited to the
      employee's account as of the date the Compensation would otherwise have
      been paid. Deferred amounts related to Compensation which would otherwise
      have been distributed in Pacific Telesis Group common shares shall be
      credited to the employee's account as deferred Pacific Telesis Group
      shares as of the date such Pacific Telesis Group shares would otherwise
      have been transferred to the
employee. 

SECTION
5.               
Company Match. 

5.1      Eligibility for
      Company Match. An employee who (A) elects to defer Compensation under the
      Plan for a calendar year, and (B) has made the maximum elective deferral
      under the Savings Plan permitted by section 402(g) of the Code for such
      calendar year (except to the extent that a further limitation is required
      by section 401(k)(3) and/or section 415 of the Code), shall be eligible to
      have additional amounts based on Compensation deferred pursuant to this
      Plan ("Company  Match") credited to his or her account
      hereunder. 

5.2      Amount
      of Company Match. The Company Match credited to an employee's account
      under this Plan with respect to Compensation deferred during a calendar
      year shall be equal to 

(A)      the
      amount of Compensation deferred into the employee's Plan account,
      multiplied by 

(B)      the
      percentage in effect for that calendar year at which
      the  employee's Basic Contributions to the Savings Plan are
      matched by employing Company contributions; provided, however, that the
      maximum Company Match credited to the employee's account under this Plan
      shall not exceed 

(C)       6% of the
      employee's Savings Plan Salary, multiplied
by 

(D)      the
      percentage in effect for that calendar year at which the employee's Basic
      Contributions to the Savings Plan are matched by employing Company
      contributions, reduced by 

(E)      the
      total amount of matching Company contributions credited to the employee's
      account under the Savings Plan. 

For
purposes of determining the amount of Compensation deferred into the employee's
Plan account, deferred Pacific Telesis Group common shares shall be valued by
multiplying the number of shares deferred by the Price of Pacific Telesis Group
common shares on the deferral date. 

5.3      Allocation to
      Account. Until fully credited for the calendar year, and subject to the
      delay provided in Section 5.4, Company Match shall be credited to an
      employee's account under this Plan as of each date that deferred
      Compensation is credited to the employee's account under this
      Plan. 

5.4      Maximum
      Pre-Tax Savings Plan Deferrals Required. No Company Match shall be
      credited to an employee's account for a calendar year until the employee
      has made before-tax contributions under the Savings Plan equal to the
      maximum elective deferrals permitted under section 402(g) of the Code, as
      further limited by section 401(k)(3) of the Code. Thereafter, the
      employee's account shall immediately be credited with an amount equal to
      the Company Match that would otherwise have been previously credited under
      Section 5.3. 

5.5      Savings
      Plan Provisions Prevail. The provisions of this Section 5 shall not limit
      or affect the application of the provisions regarding matching Company
      contributions in the Savings Plan, which shall take precedence over the
      provisions of this Section 5. 

SECTION
6.               Earnings
on Accounts. 

6.1      Interest
      Allocations to Accounts. Deferred amounts related to Compensation which
      would otherwise have been paid in cash shall bear interest from the date
      the Compensation would otherwise have been paid. Interest shall be applied
      to Company Match credited to an employee's account as if such Company
      Match had been credited to the employee's account at the same time that
      the related amounts of Compensation deferred hereunder were credited to
      the employee's account. The interest credited to an account shall be
      compounded annually at the end of each calendar
  year. 

6.2      Rate of
      Interest. The rate of interest to be applied to an employee's aggregate
      account balance under the Plan for a calendar year shall be determined by
      the Committee from time to time, and promptly communicated to eligible
      employees in advance of its application, but in no event shall (A) the
      interest rate be decreased below the average 10-Year Treasury note rate,
      (B) any reduction apply to interest already credited to Plan accounts for
      periods prior to the Committee's action, or (C) any interest rate
      previously guaranteed for a given period and communicated to eligible
      employees be reduced during such period except as may be equitable in
      light of any change in applicable law which substantially increases the
      burden to the participating Companies of paying such guaranteed
      interest. 

6.3      Retroactive
      Limitation of Interest Accrual in Case of Early Separation.
      Notwithstanding Section 6.2, an employee whose Separation occurs before he
      or she attains age 55 will receive interest on all deferred cash
      Compensation and Company Match for all years of participation in the Plan
      based on the average 10-Year Treasury note rate, rather than the rate of
      interest established by the Committee for any particular calendar
      year. 

6.4      Dividends and
      Adjustments for Pacific Telesis Group Shares. An employee's account
      credited with deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares shall be credited on
      each subsequent dividend payment date for Pacific Telesis Group shares
      with an amount equivalent to the dividend payable on the number of Pacific
      Telesis Group common shares equal to the number of deferred Pacific
      Telesis Group shares in the employee's account on the record date for such
      dividend. Such amount shall then be converted to a number of additional
      deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares, determined by dividing such amount
      by the Price of Pacific Telesis Group common shares on the dividend
      payment date. In the event of any change in outstanding Pacific Telesis
      Group common shares by reason of any stock dividend or split,
      recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares
      or other similar corporate change, the Committee shall make such
      adjustments, if any, that it deems appropriate in the number of deferred
      Pacific Telesis Group shares then credited to an employee's account. Any
      and all such adjustments shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties
      concerned. 

SECTION
7.              Distribution. 

7.1      Distribution
      Elections. At the time an eligible employee makes an election to defer
      Compensation otherwise payable for services performed in a calendar year,
      the employee also shall make an election with respect to the distribution,
      during the employee's lifetime, of such deferred Compensation, together
      with Company Match and earnings credited to the employee's Plan account
      with respect to such deferred Compensation. Subject to the provisions on
      Hardship distributions in Section 7.6.3 and the provisions on Options for
      Distribution in the Event of Death in Section 7.3, distribution elections
      shall become effective and irrevocable at the same time the election to
      defer such Compensation becomes effective and irrevocable under Section
      4.1. 

7.2      Options
      for Distribution During Life. An employee may elect to receive the amounts
      credited to the employee's Plan account with respect to a deferral
      election made pursuant to Section 4.1 (a) in one payment, or (b) in a
      number of annual installments over a period of 5, 10, or 15 years,
      calculated in accordance with procedures established by the Plan
      Administrator. As specified by the employee, distributions shall commence
      as soon as practicable after 

(A)      the
      first day of the calendar year next following the employee's
      Separation; 

(B)      the
      first day of the fifth calendar year next following the employee's
      Separation; or 

(C)      the
      first day of the calendar year next following the employee's attainment of
      a specified age between 59 1/2 and
70. 

All
amounts credited to an employee's Plan account with respect to which he or she
has elected distribution in the same form and commencing at the same time shall
be aggregated as a single Distribution Account. Notwithstanding the employee's
election under this Section 7.2 with respect to the time and form of
distribution for each such Distribution Account, if the aggregate of all amounts
credited to an employee's Distribution Account is less than $50,000 at the time
of such employee's Separation, such Distribution Account shall be distributed in
a single payment as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar year
next following the employee's Separation. 

7.3      Options
      for Distribution In the Event of Death. An employee may elect that, in the
      event the employee should die before full payment of all amounts credited
      to the employee's Plan account, the balance of the employee's Plan account
      shall be distributed to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the
      employee 

(A)      in one
      payment, paid as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar
      year next following the year of the employee's
  death; 

(B)      in 10
      annual installments, calculated in accordance with procedures established
      by the Plan Administrator, commencing as soon as practicable after the
      first day of the calendar year next following the year of the employee's
      death, provided that if the aggregate of all amounts credited to an
      employee's Plan Account is less than $50,000 at the time of such
      employee's death, such Distribution Account shall be distributed in a
      single payment as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar
      year next following the employee's death;
or 

(C)      by a
      continuation of the distribution times and forms elected under Section 7.2
      (in the case of an employee who dies before commencement of distributions,
      using as any specified age the date the employee would have attained that
      age if he or she had continued to live), subject to the single payment
      distribution of a Distribution Account credited with less than $50,000 at
      the time of the employee's death, as set forth in Section
    7.2. 

If no
election has been made under this Section 7.3, the balance of the employee's
deferred account shall be distributed in one payment as soon as practicable
after the first day of the calendar year next following the year of the
employee's death. If no beneficiary designation has been made, distribution
shall be made to the estate of the employee. 

7.4      Form of
      Elections. Distribution elections and beneficiary designations shall be
      made in writing in the form of a document or documents approved by the
      Plan Administrator, executed by the employee and filed with the Plan
      Administrator or his or her designee. An employee may designate one or
      more individuals or a trust as his or her beneficiary, and may change the
      beneficiary designation at any time, effective upon receipt by the Plan
      Administrator or his or her
designee. 

7.5      Form
      and Timing of Distribution. Amounts credited to an employee's Plan account
      as cash plus accumulated interest, less applicable withholding taxes,
      shall be distributed in cash. Amounts credited as deferred Pacific Telesis
      Group shares, less applicable withholding taxes, shall be distributed in
      the form of whole Pacific Telesis Group common shares, plus cash for any
      fractional share. Installment distributions subsequent to the first
      installment shall be paid on or about the anniversary date of the first
      annual installment until the entire balance of the employee's Plan account
      is paid. Account balances held pending distribution shall continue to be
      credited with interest or additional deferred Pacific Telesis Group
      shares, as applicable, determined in accordance with Section
      6. 

7.6      Distributions
      Not in Accordance with
Elections. 

7.6.1      Postponement of
      Payment. The Committee may postpone payment of Plan benefits to an
      employee (A) who, in the year Plan benefits would otherwise be payable, is
      a "covered employee" for purposes of the $1 million limitation on
      deductible compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, and (B) whose
      compensation for the year in which Plan benefits would otherwise be
      payable would, but for such postponement, exceed the $1 million limit on
      deductibility. In addition, notwithstanding an election pursuant to
      Section 7.2, at the sole discretion of the Committee, in the event that an
      employee's Separation is on account of total and permanent disability, as
      determined by the Committee, the Committee may postpone payment of Plan
      benefits to such employee to commence in a year later than the year in
      which his or her Plan benefits would otherwise be payable upon such
      Separation, provided that no such postponement shall extend beyond the
      earlier of (a) ten years from the date of Separation, or (b) the year in
      which such employee attains age 65. 

7.6.2      Immediate
      Single Payment. Notwithstanding an election pursuant to Section 7.2, at
      the sole discretion of the Committee the entire amount then credited to
      the employee's account shall be paid as soon as practicable in a single
      payment if an employee is involuntarily terminated by his or her Company
      or becomes employed by a governmental agency having jurisdiction over the
      activities of Pacific Telesis Group or any of its
    Affiliates. 

7.6.3      Hardship
      Distribution. Upon receipt of a written request made by or on behalf of an
      employee, the Committee in its sole discretion may authorize a Hardship
      distribution from the employee's Plan account. For purposes of the Plan,
      "Hardship" means an unanticipated emergency that is caused by an event
      beyond the control of the employee and that would result in severe
      financial hardship if early distribution were not permitted. As determined
      by the Committee in its sole discretion, Hardship may include one or more
      of the following: 

(A)      A
      sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the
  employee; 

(B)      Extraordinary
      and unreimbursed medical or hospital expenses incurred by the employee or
      a member of his or her family or a
relative; 

(C)      The
      loss of the employee's property due to casualty;
  or 

(D)      Any
      other similar unforeseeable emergency that is caused by and event beyond
      the control of the employee and would impose a severe financial hardship
      if early distribution were not
permitted. 

A
distribution based on Hardship cannot exceed the amount required to meet the
immediate financial need created by the Hardship and not reasonably available
from other resources of the employee, including reimbursement or compensation by
insurance or otherwise; provided that an employee shall not be required to
request a hardship distribution from the Savings Plan in order to receive a
Hardship distribution under this Plan. 

7.7      Payment
      Obligation. The obligation to distribute benefits under the Plan shall be
      borne primarily by the last Company to employ an employee in a position
      eligible to participate in the Plan immediately prior to the distribution.
      A Company's withdrawal from participation in the Plan shall not affect
      that Company's liability hereunder. If for any reason the primarily liable
      Company fails to make timely payment of a amount due under the Plan,
      Pacific Telesis Group shall be secondarily liable for the
      obligation. 

SECTION
8.            Administration;
Claims and Review Procedures. 

8.1      Plan
      Administrator. The Plan Administrator shall be the Executive Vice
      President - Human Resources Pacific Telesis Group, or his or her deligee.
      The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to administer and
      interpret the Plan, including sole discretion to determine the rights of
      an employee or beneficiary under the Plan, and to authorize disbursements
      under the Plan, except for decisions expressly reserved by the Plan for
      the Committee or for the PTG Board or the Board of Directors of an
      Affiliate. 

8.2      Initial
      Claim Unnecessary. No claim for benefits shall be required for
      commencement of distributions in accordance with an employee's election
      under Sections 7.2 and 7.3 of the Plan. The obligation of a Company to
      make distributions under the Plan shall not be affected by any action or
      inaction (on the part of an employee, his beneficiaries or any Company)
      with respect to amounts owed, including but not limited to the failure to
      make timely demand, the granting of extensions of time or other
      indulgences, the failure to make timely payment or the failure to give
      notices other than those prescribed in Section
  8.3. 

8.3      Review
      of Adverse Decisions. An employee or beneficiary who disagrees with a
      decision by the Plan Administrator relating to the payment of benefits
      under the Plan may submit a claim requesting Plan benefits in writing to
      the Committee, which shall respond in writing. A claim shall be deemed
      denied unless the response is sent within 90 days (or within 180 days, if
      the Committee extends the time to respond by notifying the claimant in
      writing of the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date
      by which the response is expected). If the claim is denied in whole or
      part, the response shall state (A) the specific reasons, making specific
      reference to pertinent provisions of the Plan; (B) what additional
      information, if any, would help perfect the claim for benefits; and (C)
      what steps the claimant must take to submit the claim for review. Within
      60 days after the date of a denial, a claimant may file a written request
      for the PTG Board of Directors to review the denial. Notwithstanding
      Section 8.2 of the Plan, such request for review must be made in a timely
      manner for the purpose of seeking any further review of a decision or
      determining any entitlement to a benefit under the Plan. The PTG Board
      shall notify the claimant in writing of the review decision, specifying
      the reasons for the decision and the Plan provisions on which it is based.
      A claim shall be deemed denied unless the decision on appeal is sent
      within 60 days (or within 120 days, if the PTG Board extends the time to
      respond by notifying the claimant in writing). The Plan Administrator,
      Committee and PTG Board shall retain such right, authority and discretion
      as are provided or not expressly limited in section 503 of ERISA and the
      regulations thereunder and, if the Committee denies a claim upon review,
      the claimant shall have such further rights of review as are provided
      therein. 

SECTION
9.             Amendment
and Termination. 

9.1 

9.1      Amendment. The
      PTG Board of Directors may at any time make changes in the Plan, but such
      amendment shall have prospective effect only and shall not adversely
      affect the rights of any employee, without his or her consent, to any
      benefit under the Plan to which such employee was entitled prior to the
      effective date of amendment. Changes in the interest rate applied to Plan
      account balances as determined by the Committee from time to time in
      accordance with Section 6.2 of the Plan shall not be deemed to be Plan
      amendments, notwithstanding that they apply to Compensation previously
      earned and deferred. The Executive Vice President - Human Resources of
      Pacific Telesis Group, with the approval of the Executive Vice President
      and General Counsel of Pacific Telesis Group, shall be authorized to make
      minor or administrative changes to the
Plan. 

9.2      Termination.
      The PTG Board of Directors may at any time terminate the Plan. Any
      termination of the Plan shall not terminate the deferral of Compensation
      previously deferred into a Plan account, but may prevent the deferral of
      Compensation not yet earned notwithstanding the employee's prior election
      to defer such Compensation. 

SECTION
10.            Definitions. 

        For
purposes of this Plan, the following words shall have the meaning so defined
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

10.1      "Affiliate" as
      the term relates to Pacific Telesis Group, means a subsidiary of or other
      entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with
      Pacific Telesis Group, as the case may be. As used herein, "control" means
      the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause
      the direction of the management and policies of such entity, whether
      through ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or
      otherwise. 

10.2      "PTG
      Board of Directors" or "PTG Board" means the Board of Directors of Pacific
      Telesis Group. 

10.3      "Code"
      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and
      the regulations promulgated
thereunder. 

10.4      "Committee"
      means the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors
      of Pacific Telesis Group. 

10.5      "Company" shall
      mean Pacific Telesis Group, Pacific Bell or any other corporation which is
      an Affiliate of Pacific Telesis
Group. 

10.6      "Officer" means
      an officer of a Company, as determined by the Plan Administrator, but the
      term shall not include Assistant Secretary, Assistant Treasurer, Assistant
      Comptroller or any other assistant
officer. 

10.7      "Price"
      with respect to Pacific Telesis Group common shares as of a particular
      date means the average of the daily high and low sale prices of Pacific
      Telesis Group common shares on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") for
      the period of five trading days ending on such date, or the period of five
      trading days immediately preceding such date if the NYSE is closed on the
      date. 

10.8      "Savings Plan"
      means the Pacific Telesis Group Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan
      for Salaried Employees. 

10.9      "Savings Plan
      Salary" means "Salary" as defined in the Pacific Telesis Group
      Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Salaried Employees, without
      reduction for deferrals of salary under this Plan and without regard to
      the limit on compensation under section 401(a)(17) of the Code. If an
      eligible employee is employed by a participating Company for only a
      portion of a calendar year or is on a leave of absence for a portion of a
      calendar year, the employee's Savings Plan Salary is prorated to reflect
      only the period during which the employee was actively employed by a
      participating Company. 

10.10      "Separation"
      means retirement or termination from all employment with Pacific Telesis
      Group or its
Affiliates. 

</EX-10.MMM>

<EX-10.NNN>
 42
 ex10nnn.htm
 PTG EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10nnn.htm 

Exhibit
10-nnn 

PACIFIC
TELESIS GROUP 

      EXECUTIVE
DEFERRAL PLAN 

      (Restated
as of November 1, 1994) 

SECTION
1.  PURPOSE. 

The
Pacific Telesis Group Executive  Deferral Plan (the "Plan") provides
certain Officers of the Company with  an opportunity to defer
compensation and accrue earnings on a pre-tax basis and with an opportunity to
receive employer matching  contributions  that
cannot  be provided  to  them under  the
Pacific Telesis Group Supplemental Retirement and  Savings Plan for
Salaried Employees ("the  Savings Plan") because of the limitations
imposed by section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the "Code"). 

SECTION
2.  ELIGIBILITY TO PARTICIPATE. 

The
following employees are eligible to participate in the Plan: 

(A)  Officers of Pacific
Telesis Group and/or Pacific Bell; 

(B)  The
      Officers of  any corporate Affiliate  of Pacific
      Telesis  Group who are specifically designated to participate by
      the Board of Directors of Pacific  Telesis Group and
      the  Board of Directors  of such corporate
      Affiliate. 

Prior  to
April 1,  1994, certain  employees of  AirTouch
Communications (formerly  "PacTel Corporation") were eligible to
participate in the Plan, and they retain certain rights to benefits as provided
under the Plan. 

SECTION
3.  PLAN ACCOUNTS. 

3.1  ESTABLISHMENT
OF ACCOUNT.  An account shall be established for each eligible
employee who elects to become a participant in the Plan in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Section 4 of the Plan.  The
account  shall be credited with allocations and
earnings  under Sections 4, 5 and 6  and debited with
distributions under Section 7 of the Plan. 

3.2  PREDECESSOR
PLAN ACCOUNTS.  An employee's account under the Pacific
Telesis   Group  Senior   Management  Incentive   Award  Deferral   Plan  (the
"Predecessor Plan")  was transferred to this  Plan as of
January  1, 1985 (the "Effective Date"  of this Plan), if
the employee was then an eligible employee as provided in  Section
2.  In such a case,  the employee's account under this Plan
was credited  as of the  Effective Date with  the
amount credited to  the employee's  account under
the  Predecessor Plan as  of December 31,  1984,
and   such  amount
shall  bear interest from  the Effective Date  in
accordance with Section 6.  Elections  regarding
distribution made under the  Predecessor Plan shall not be affected by
the transfer of an employee's account to this Plan. 

3.3  NO  FUNDING
OR ASSIGNMENT.  For  income tax purposes under the Code and
for purposes of  Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, as  amended ("ERISA"),  it  is
intended  that  this
Plan  constitute  an unfunded  deferred
compensation  arrangement.   The
amounts  credited to  Plan accounts for  employees
of  each participating  Company shall  be
held  in the general  funds of such  participating
Company.  All  amounts in such accounts, including
all  Compensation deferred by an employee,  shall remain an
asset of the  participating Company. A
participating  Company shall not  be required to reserve
or  otherwise set aside funds  for the payment
of  amounts credited to Plan
accounts.   The  obligation of  a
participating  Company to  pay benefits under  the
Plan  constitutes a mere  promise to  make
benefit  payments in the future, and  shall be unfunded as
to the employee, whose rights shall be those of  a general
unsecured  creditor.  Title  to and
beneficial  ownership of any assets which a participating
Company  may set aside or otherwise  designate to make
payments  under the Plan shall  at all times
remain  in the participating Company, and the employee shall not have
any property interest in any specific assets of a  participating
Company. The  rights of an  employee or his  or
her beneficiary to benefit  payments under the Plan are
not  subject in any manner to assignment, alienation, pledge or
garnishment by creditors. 

SECTION
4.  DEFERRED COMPENSATION. 

4.1  ANNUAL
DEFERRAL  AND
DISTRIBUTION  ELECTION.  An  eligible employee
may  elect to participate in the  Plan prior to
the  beginning of any calendar year or within 30 days  of
first becoming eligible to participate in  the Plan or a
feature  of the Plan (with  respect to such
Plan  feature). An employee's election  shall
direct  that  compensation in  one
or  more  of the  following
categories  (collectively  "Compensation")  be  deferred
and  credited  to  an
account  under  the  Plan,  subject  to  the  limitations  and   effectiveness
prescribed  for  each category  of
Compensation,  and  shall direct  that such
Compensation, together with  all other  amounts credited
under  the Plan  with respect to  such
Compensation under  Section 5  (Company Match)
and  Section 6 (Earnings),  shall be distributed in
accordance with a distribution option set forth in Section 7. 

(A)   SALARY.  An
      employee may elect to defer part  of his or her salary otherwise
      payable for services performed in a calendar year,
      but  not  less than  $2,500 nor more
      than  80% of salary.  Such election shall become
      effective for salary otherwise payable for services performed in the
      payroll period beginning (i) immediately subsequent to the election, in
      the case of an employee who makes an election within 30 days of first
      becoming eligible to participate in the Plan, or (ii) on or after the
      first day of the calendar year to which the election applies in all other
      cases.  An election related to salary otherwise payable for
      services performed in any calendar year shall become irrevocable on the
      last day prior to the beginning of such calendar year (or the applicable
      payroll period for  which  the  election
      becomes  effective,  in  the  case
      of  an
      election  made  within  30  days  of  first  becoming  eligible  to
      participate in the Plan). 

(B)   STIP.   An
      employee may elect  to defer all  or part, but not
      less  than  $5,000,  of
      his  or  her  awards  under
      the  Short-Term Incentive Plan or Short-Term Incentive
      Compensation Plan of Pacific Telesis Group or an  Affiliate, or
      a similar  or successor plan  or program ("STIP"),
      for  services performed  in a  calendar
      year  and otherwise  payable
      in  the  calendar year  following
      such  calendar year.  An election related to the STIP
      award for services performed in a calendar year  shall become
      irrevocable on the  last day prior to the year in which the
      services are performed. 

(C)   LTIP.  An
      employee  may elect to  defer all or
      part,  but not less than  $5,000, of his  or
      her awards under  the Pacific Telesis Group  Senior
      Management  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
      or  the similar plan of an Affiliate  ("LTIP"), for
      services performed in  a three-year performance period and
      otherwise payable in the  calendar year following such
      three-year performance  period.  An election related
      to the LTIP  award otherwise  payable for
      services  performed in  a three-year performance
      period shall  become irrevocable on the last
      day  prior to the  beginning of  the
      three-year  performance period applicable to that LTIP
      award. 

(D)  OTHER
      AWARDS.  An  employee may elect to defer all
      or  part of his or  her awards under  any
      other  bonus, special  award, or  any
      other  similar  form  of  compensation  ("Other  Awards")
      otherwise payable to  him or her by  a participating
      Company  with respect to services  performed
      in  a calendar  year.   An
      election  related to Other  Awards
      otherwise  payable in  a calendar  year
      shall  become irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning
      of such calendar year. 

Notwithstanding
the  foregoing, in  no event  shall
deferrals  under the Plan include that  portion
of  Compensation required for  all
applicable  tax, Social Security and  employee
benefit  plan withholding, whether  or not  such
withholding requirement is related to this Plan. 

4.2    FORM
OF  ELECTION,
MODIFICATION  OR  TERMINATION.   An
employee's   election
or written  notice of  modification or
termination  shall be made  in accordance  with
procedures established by the Plan Administrator, in the form of a document
approved by the Plan Administrator, executed by the employee and
filed  with  the
Plan  Administrator  or  his  or  her  designee.    The  Plan
Administrator  may permit an employee to make  a series of
annual elections to be  effective in  future
years,  in  which case  such  elections
shall  become irrevocable as  provided in  Section
4.1.   An election  which has  not become
irrevocable may be modified, terminated or reinstated by the employee prior to
the time  such election would  have become irrevocable
as  provided in Section 4.1.  An  election with
respect to  salary, STIP or Other Awards  for services
performed  in  a  calendar  year
and/or  with  respect  to  LTIP
for  services performed  in
a  three-year  performance
period  shall  be deemed  irrevocably
terminated  when  the   employee,  whether  by  transfer   or  termination  of
employment, ceases  to  be eligible  to
participate  in the  Plan during  such calendar
year and/or such three-year performance period (as applicable). 

4.3   MODIFICATION  OF  IRREVOCABLE
ELECTION  BY  THE COMMITTEE.    Upon
receipt  of a  written  request  made
by  or  on behalf  of  an
employee,  the Committee  in
its  sole  discretion may  modify  or
terminate  the  employee's election with respect
to  Compensation otherwise payable in a calendar year as
it  deems necessary  to prevent  extreme
financial  hardship to  the employee,
notwithstanding  that the  election  has
become  effective and  irrevocable as provided in Section
4.1. 

4.4  ALLOCATION
TO  ACCOUNTS.  Deferred amounts related  to
Compensation which  would otherwise  have
been  paid by  a participating  Company
shall  be credited  to  the
employee's  account as  of the  date
the  Compensation would otherwise  have
been  paid.   Deferred amounts  related
to  Compensation which would otherwise have
been  distributed in Pacific Telesis Group  common shares
shall be  credited to the employee's account as deferred Pacific
Telesis Group shares as of  the date such Pacific Telesis
Group  shares would otherwise have been transferred to the
employee. 

SECTION
5.  COMPANY MATCH. 

5.1  ELIGIBILITY
FOR COMPANY MATCH.  An employee who (A) elects to defer 

      Compensation
under the Plan for a calendar year,  and (B) has made the maximum
elective deferral under  the Savings Plan permitted  by
section 402(g) of  the Code for such calendar year (except to the
extent that a further limitation is required  by  section
401(k)(3)  of  the  Code),  shall
be  eligible  to  have
additional  amounts  based
on  Compensation  deferred  pursuant  to
this  Plan ("Company Match") credited to his or her account
hereunder. 

5.2  AMOUNT  OF
COMPANY  MATCH.    The  Company  Match  credited  to  an
  employee
s  account  under this  Plan  with
respect  to  Compensation deferred during a calendar year
shall be equal to 

(A)  the
      amount  of Compensation deferred into  the employee s
      Plan account, multiplied by 

(B)  the
      percentage in effect  for that calendar year at  which
      the employee's Basic Contributions  to the Savings
      Plan  are matched by
      employing  Company  contributions;  provided,  however,   that  the
      maximum Company Match credited to the employee s account
      shall  not exceed 

(C)  6% of the employee's Savings Plan Salary, multiplied
by 

(D)  the
      percentage in effect  for that calendar year at  which
      the employee's  Basic Contributions to the  Savings
      Plan are matched by employing Company contributions, reduced
      by 

(E)  the
      total amount of matching Company contributions credited to the employee's
      account under the Savings Plan. 

For
purposes of determining the amount of Compensation deferred into the employee's
Plan account, deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares shall be valued by
multiplying the  number of shares deferred by the  Price of
Pacific Telesis Group common shares on the deferral date. 

5.3  ALLOCATION
TO ACCOUNT.  Until fully credited for the calendar year,
and  subject to  the delay  provided
in  Section 5.4,  Company Match  shall be
credited  to  an
employee's  account  under
this  Plan  as of  each  date that
deferred Compensation is credited to the employee s account under this
Plan. 

5.4  MAXIMUM
PRE-TAX SAVINGS PLAN DEFERRALS  REQUIRED.  No Company Match
shall  be credited  to an  employee s
account  for a  calendar year  until the employee
has made before-tax contributions under the Savings Plan equal to the
maximum  elective deferrals  permitted
under  section 402(g)  of the  Code, as further
limited by section  401(k)(3) of the Code.  Thereafter, the
employee's account shall  immediately be  credited
with  an amount  equal to  the Company Match that
would otherwise have been previously credited under Section 5.3. 

5.5   SAVINGS
PLAN PROVISIONS PREVAIL.  The provisions of this Section 5 shall not
limit or affect the application of the provisions regarding matching
Company  contributions in the Savings  Plan, which
shall  take precedence over the provisions of this Section
5. 

SECTION
6.  EARNINGS ON ACCOUNTS. 

6.1   INTEREST  ALLOCATIONS
TO  ACCOUNTS.   Deferred amounts  related to
  Compensation
which would otherwise have been  paid in cash shall bear interest from
the date the Compensation would otherwise have been paid.  Interest
shall be  applied to  Company Match  credited
to  an employee s  account as  if such Company
Match  had been credited  to the employee
s  account at the  same time that the related
amounts  of Compensation deferred hereunder were  credited
to the  employee
s  account.   The  interest  credited  to  an
account  shall  be compounded annually at the end of each
calendar year. 

6.2   RATE
OF INTEREST.   The rate of interest  to be applied to
account balances for a calendar year shall be determined by the Committee from
time to time,  and promptly  communicated  to
eligible  employees  in advance  of  its
application, but  in no event shall  (A) the interest
rate  be decreased below the  average 10-Year
Treasury  note rate, (B) any  reduction apply to interest
already credited to Plan accounts for periods prior to the Committee's action,
or  (C)  any  interest
rate  previously  guaranteed  for  a
given  period  and communicated to eligible employees be
reduced during such period except as may be equitable  in
light  of any  change in  applicable
law  which substantially increases  the burden to the
participating Companies of paying such guaranteed interest. 

6.3    RETROACTIVE  LIMITATION
OF  INTEREST  ACCRUAL  IN  CASE OF EARLY
SEPARATION.   Notwithstanding Section 6.2, an employee whose
Separation occurs before he or  she attains age 55  will
receive interest  on all deferred  cash Compensation and
Company Match based on the average 10-Year Treasury note rate for
all  years of participation in this Plan, rather than the rate of
interest established by the Committee for any particular calendar
year. 

6.4   DIVIDENDS  AND
ADJUSTMENTS  FOR PACIFIC  TELESIS GROUP  SHARES.
An employee's account  credited with deferred Pacific
Telesis  Group shares shall be credited on each subsequent dividend
payment date for Pacific Telesis Group shares with  an amount
equivalent  to the  dividend payable on  the
number  of Pacific Telesis  Group common shares
equal  to the number of  deferred Pacific Telesis
Group  shares in the  employee's account on  the
record date  for such
dividend.   Such  amount shall  then
be  converted to  a
number  of  additional deferred Pacific Telesis
Group  shares, determined by dividing such  amount by the
price of Pacific Telesis Group common shares on the dividend payment
date.  For purposes  of the preceding
sentence,  the price of Pacific  Telesis Group common shares
as of  a particular date shall be the average  of the daily
high and low sale prices  of Pacific Telesis  Group common
shares  on the New  York Stock  Exchange ("NYSE")
for  the period of  five trading days  ending on
such date, or  the period of five  trading days immediately
preceding  such date if the  NYSE is closed
on  the date.   In the event of  any change
in outstanding Pacific Telesis  Group common shares by reason of any
stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation,
combination  or exchange of shares or other  similar
corporate change, the Committee shall make such adjustments, if any, that it
deems appropriate in the number of deferred Pacific Telesis Group
shares  then credited to an employee s account.   Any
and all such adjustments shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties
concerned. 

SECTION
7.  DISTRIBUTION. 

7.1   DISTRIBUTION
ELECTIONS.  At the time an eligible employee makes an election to
defer Compensation  otherwise payable for services
performed  in a calendar year,  the employee also
shall  make an election with  respect to the
distribution  (during  the  employee's  lifetime  and  in  the  event  of  the
employee's death) of such deferred Compensation and Company Match and earnings
credited  to
the  employee's  Plan  account  with  respect  to  such  deferred
  Compensation.
Subject to  the provisions on Hardship  distributions in
Section 7.6.3, distribution elections  shall become
effective  and irrevocable at  the
same  times  the election  to
defer  such  Compensation becomes  effective and
irrevocable under Section 4.1. 

7.2   OPTIONS
FOR DISTRIBUTION  DURING LIFE.   An employee
may  elect to receive the amounts credited to the employee's account
in one  payment or in a number  of monthly  or
annual  installments (over  a period  not
exceeding  15
years)  calculated  in  accordance
with  procedures  established  by  the
Plan Administrator.   As specified by the employee, distributions
shall commence as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar
quarter next following   the
employee's 

(A)  Separation; 

(B)  attainment
of a specified age between 59 1/2 and 70; 

(C)  the
earlier of attainment of a specified age not less than age 59 1/2 or Separation;
or 

(D)  the
earlier of age 70 or a specified number of  years (maximum of 5) after
Separation. 

7.3  OPTIONS  FOR
DISTRIBUTION IN THE EVENT  OF DEATH.  An  employee
may elect that, in the  event the employee should  die
before full payment of  all amounts  credited
to  the  employee's
account,  the  balance of  the  deferred
account shall be distributed to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by
the employee 

(A)  in
one payment; 

(B)  in
a number of  monthly or annual installments (over  a period
not exceeding  10 years), calculated in  accordance with
procedures established by the Plan Administrator; or 

(C)  by  a  continuation  of  the  monthly  or  annual  installment
distributions elected under Section 7.2. 

A  single
payment or first  installment elected under  paragraphs (A)
or (B) of this Section shall be paid  as soon as practicable after the
first  day of the  next calendar  quarter
beginning  after the employee's  death.   If
an employee who has elected to continue installment distributions under
paragraph (C)  of this  Section  dies
before  commencement  of
such  distributions,  the   distributions
shall  commence in accordance with the employee's election under
Section  7.2, using  as any  specified
age  the date  the employee  would have attained
that age if he or she had continued to live.  If no election has been
made under  this Section  7.3, the  balance of
the  deferred account  shall be distributed
in  one payment.   If  no beneficiary
designation  has been  made, distribution shall be made to
the estate of the employee. 

7.4    FORM  OF  ELECTIONS.    Distribution  elections  and  beneficiary
designations shall be made in writing  in the form of a
document  or documents approved  by the Plan
Administrator,  executed by the  employee and filed with the
Plan Administrator or his or her  designee.  An employee may
designate one or more individuals or  a trust as his or her
beneficiary,  and may change the beneficiary  designation
at  any  time, effective  upon  receipt
by  the  Plan Administrator or his or her
designee. 

7.5  FORM
AND TIMING OF DISTRIBUTION.  Amounts credited to an employee's
Plan  account as cash  plus accumulated
interest,  less applicable withholding taxes, shall  be
distributed in  cash.   Amounts credited
as  deferred Pacific Telesis Group  shares, less applicable
withholding taxes, shall be distributed in the form  of whole Pacific
Telesis Group  common shares, plus cash  for any
fractional  share.     Installment  distributions  subsequent   to  the  first
  installment
shall be paid on or about the anniversary date of the first annual installment
or on or about  the first day of each succeeding  month,
whichever is applicable, until  the entire  balance
of  the employee's  Plan account  is
paid.    Account  balances
held  pending  distribution  shall  continue
to  be credited with interest or additional deferred Pacific Telesis
Group shares, as applicable,  determined in  accordance with
Section  6.   Monthly distribution payments within
a  single calendar year will be uniform,  but the total
amount paid each  year will vary with changes in the  yield
on the account during the prior year. 

7.6  DISTRIBUTION
NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITH ELECTIONS. 

7.6.1   POSTPONEMENT
OF PAYMENT.   With respect to Plan account balances   accrued
pursuant to elections filed after February 17, 1993, the Committee may
postpone  payment of Plan  benefits to
an  employee (A) who, in  the year Plan
benefits  would otherwise be payable, is a  "covered
employee" for purposes of the $1 million limitation  on deductible
compensation under Section  162(m) of the Internal  Revenue
Code, and (B)  whose compensation for the  year in which
Plan benefits would  otherwise be  payable would,
but  for such  postponement, exceed the $1 million limit on
deductibility. 

7.6.2  IMMEDIATE
SINGLE PAYMENT.   Notwithstanding an election  pursuant
to Section 7.2, at the sole discretion of the Committee the entire amount then
credited to the employee's account  shall be paid as soon as
practicable  in a single payment  if  an
employee  is  involuntarily
terminated  by  his or  her Company  or
becomes employed by a governmental agency having jurisdiction over the
activities of Pacific Telesis Group or any of its Affiliates. 

7.6.3  HARDSHIP
DISTRIBUTION.  Upon receipt of a written request made by
or  on  behalf
of  an  employee,  the
Committee  in  its  sole discretion  may
authorize  a  Hardship distribution  from
the  employee's  Plan account.   For
purposes  of the  Plan, "Hardship"  means
an  unanticipated emergency  that is caused by an event
beyond the control of the employee and that would result in
severe  financial hardship  if  early
distribution  were  not permitted.    As
  determined  by
the Committee in its  sole discretion, Hardship may include one or
more of the following: 

(A)  A
sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the employee; 

(B)  Extraordinary  and
      unreimbursed  medical or  hospital expenses
      incurred  by the employee  or a  member of
      his  or her family  or a
  relative; 

(C)  The
loss of  the employee s property due to casualty; or 

(D)  Any
      other  similar unforeseeable  emergency that
      is  caused by and  event beyond the  control
      of the  employee and would  impose a severe financial
      hardship if early distribution were not
  permitted. 

A  distribution
based on Hardship  cannot exceed the  amount required to
meet the immediate financial need  created by the Hardship and
not  reasonably available from  other
resources  of the  employee,
including  reimbursement or compensation by  insurance or
otherwise.   However, an  employee shall
not  be required to request a hardship distribution  from
the Savings Plan in order to receive a Hardship distribution under this
Plan. 

7.7   PAYMENT
OBLIGATION.   The obligation to  distribute benefits
under the Plan shall be borne primarily by the last Company to employ an
employee in a position  eligible
to  participate  in
the  Plan  immediately prior  to  the
distribution.  A Company's withdrawal from participation in the Plan
shall not affect that  Company's liability
hereunder.   If for any reason  the primarily liable
Company  fails to make timely payment  of a amount
due  under the Plan,   Pacific  Telesis  Group  shall  be  secondarily  liable  for  the  obligation.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,
Pacific  Telesis  Group
shall  be  solely and exclusively responsible for providing
the benefits accrued under the Plan by a Post-Separation AirTouch
Employee. 

SECTION
8.  ADMINISTRATION; CLAIMS AND REVIEW PROCEDURES. 

8.1   PLAN
ADMINISTRATOR.  The Plan Administrator shall be the Executive Vice
President, Human Resources Department of Pacific Telesis Group.  The
Plan Administrator shall have the  authority to administer and
interpret  the Plan,
including   sole  discretion  to  determine  the  rights  of  an  employee  or
beneficiary under the  Plan, and  to authorize
disbursements  under the  Plan, except for decisions
expressly reserved  by the Plan for the Committee  or for
the Board of Directors of Pacific Telesis Group or of an Affiliate. 

8.2  INITIAL
CLAIM UNNECESSARY.  No claim for benefits shall be required for
commencement of  distributions in accordance  with an
employee's  election under Sections 7.2  and 7.3 of the
Plan.  The  obligation of a Company to make distributions
under the Plan shall  not be affected by any action  or
inaction (on the part of an employee, his beneficiaries or any Company) with
respect to amounts owed, including but not limited  to the failure to
make timely demand, the granting of extensions of  time or other
indulgences, the failure  to make timely  payment or the
failure to give  notices other than those prescribed in Section
8.3. 

8.3   REVIEW  OF  ADVERSE
DECISIONS.    An employee  or
beneficiary  who disagrees with a decision by the Plan Administrator
relating to the payment of benefits under the Plan may submit a claim requesting
Plan benefits in writing to the Committee,  which shall
respond  in writing.   A claim shall  be
deemed denied unless the response is sent within 90 days (or
within  180 days, if the Committee extends the time to
respond  by notifying the claimant in writing of the special
circumstances  requiring an extension  and the
date  by which  the response is expected).  If the
claim is denied  in whole or part, the response shall state (A)
the  specific reasons, making specific reference  to
pertinent provisions of  the Plan; (B) what  additional
information, if any,  would help perfect the claim for benefits; and
(C)  what steps the claimant must take  to
submit  the claim for review.   Within
60  days after the date  of a denial, a
claimant  may file a  written request for  the
Pacific Telesis  Group Board of Directors to review the
denial.  Notwithstanding Section 8.2 of the Plan, such request for
review must be made in a timely  manner for the purpose of seeking any
further review of a  decision or determining any entitlement
to  a benefit under the Plan.   The Board of Directors
shall notify the  claimant in writing of the
review  decision, specifying the reasons for the  decision
and the Plan provisions on  which it is based.   A
claim shall be  deemed denied unless the decision  on appeal
is sent within  60 days (or within 120  days, if the Board
extends the  time to respond by  notifying the claimant
in  writing). The Plan Administrator,  Committee
and  Board shall  retain such  right,
authority  and discretion as  are provided or
not  expressly limited in section  503 of ERISA
and  the regulations  thereunder
and,  if  the Committee  denies a  claim
upon review, the  claimant shall have such further rights of review as
are provided therein. 

SECTION
9.  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION. 

The  Pacific
Telesis  Group  Board of  Directors  may
at  any  time make changes  in the
Plan  or terminate the  Plan, but such  changes or
termination shall have prospective  effect only and shall not
adversely  affect the rights of any employee, without his or her
consent, to any benefit  under the Plan to which such employee was
entitled prior to the effective date of such change or   termination.  Any
termination of the Plan shall not terminate  the deferral of
Compensation  previously deferred  into a  Plan
account,  but may  prevent the deferral of
Compensation  not yet  earned and the  crediting
of Company  Match
thereon,  notwithstanding   the  employee's  prior  election   to  defer  such
Compensation.  Changes in the interest rate applied  to
account balances which are made by the Committee in accordance with Section 6.2
of the Plan shall not
be   deemed  to  be  Plan  amendments,  notwithstanding  that  they  apply  to
Compensation  previously earned  and
deferred.  The Executive  Vice President, Human Resources
Department of Pacific Telesis  Group, with the approval of the
Executive Vice President and  General Counsel of Pacific
Telesis  Group, shall be authorized to make minor or administrative
changes to the Plan. 

SECTION
10.  DEFINITIONS. 

For
purposes of this Plan, the following words shall have the meaning so defined
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

10.1   "AFFILIATES"
as the term  relates to Pacific Telesis  Group or to
AirTouch Communications (formerly  PacTel Corporation ), means
subsidiaries of or other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under
common control with Pacific Telesis Group or AirTouch Communications, as the
case may be.  As used  herein, "control" means
the  possession, directly or  indirectly, of the power to
direct or cause the direction of the management  and policies of such
entity,  whether through ownership of voting securities or other
interests, by contract or otherwise. 

10.2  "AIRTOUCH
GROUP" means AirTouch Communications (or  its successor)
and  its Affiliates  immediately after  the
total  and complete  separation of AirTouch Communications
from Pacific Telesis Group. 

10.3  "COMMITTEE"
shall mean the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of
Pacific Telesis Group. 

10.4
"COMPANY" shall  mean Pacific  Telesis
Group,  Pacific Bell  or any other
corporation  which is an Affiliate  of Pacific Telesis
Group.   Prior to April 1,
1994,  Company  also  included  PacTel  Corporation  (now   "AirTouch
Communications")  and any other corporation  which was
an  Affiliate of PacTel Corporation. 

10.5
"EFFECTIVE DATE" means January  1, 1985, the effective
date  of the Plan. 

10.6
"OFFICER" means an  officer of a Company, as determined by the Plan
Administrator, but the term  shall not include
Assistant  Secretary, Assistant Treasurer, Assistant Comptroller or
any other assistant officer. 

10.7
"POST-SEPARATION  AIRTOUCH  EMPLOYEES"   means  an  employee   who,
immediately after the total and complete separation of PacTel Corporation from
Pacific Telesis Group, was employed by a member of the AirTouch
Group. 

10.8
"SAVINGS  PLAN"  means  the   Pacific  Telesis  Group  Supplemental
Retirement and Savings Plan for  Salaried Employees.  Prior
to April  1, 1994,
"Savings  Plan"  also  means  the  PacTel  Corporation  Retirement  Plan  (for
employees who were eligible to participate therein). 

10.9
"SAVINGS PLAN  SALARY"  means "Salary"  as
defined  in the  Pacific Telesis Group Supplemental
Retirement and Savings Plan for Salaried  Employees
and,  prior
to  April  1,  1994,  "Compensation"  as  defined  in  the  PacTel
Corporation Retirement Plan, whichever is  applicable to the employee,
without reduction for  deferrals of salary under  this Plan
and without  regard to the limit on  compensation under
section 401(a)(17)  of the Code.   If an eligible
employee  is  employed by  a
participating  Company for  only  a
portion  of a calendar year or is  on a leave of
absence  for a portion of a  calendar year,
the  employee's Savings  Plan Salary  is
prorated  to reflect only  the period during which the
employee was actively employed by a participating Company. 

10.10  "SEPARATIONS"
means retirement or termination from all employment with
Pacific  Telesis  Group
or  its  Affiliates.   With  respect
to  a  Post- Separation  AirTouch
Employee,  "Separation" means  retirement  or
termination from  all employment  with
the  AirTouch Group  without employment  by
Pacific Telesis Group or its Affiliates. 

</EX-10.NNN>

<EX-12>
 43
 ex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

ex12.htm 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 44
 ex13.htm
 AT&T 2007 ANNUAL REPORT

ex13.htm 

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations 

Dollars
      in millions except per share amounts  

1  

Amounts
      in the above table have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally
      accepted accounting principles. 

2  

Our
      2006 income statement amounts reflect results from BellSouth Corporation
      (BellSouth) and AT T Mobility LLC (AT T Mobility), formerly
      Cingular Wireless LLC, for the two days following the December 29, 2006
      acquisition. Our 2006 balance sheet and end-of-year metrics include 100%
      of BellSouth and AT T Mobility. Prior to the December 29, 2006
      BellSouth acquisition, AT T Mobility was a joint venture in which we
      owned 60% and was accounted for under the equity
  method. 

4  

Our
      financial statements reflect results from our sold directory advertising
      business in Illinois and northwest Indiana as discontinued operations. The
      operational results and the gain associated with the sale of that business
      are presented in  Income from discontinued operations, net of
      tax.  

5  

Amounts
      include the following extraordinary item and cumulative effect of
      accounting changes: 2003, extraordinary loss of $7 related to the adoption
      of FIN 46  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation
      of ARB No. 51  and the cumulative effect of accounting changes of $2,541,
      which includes a $3,677 benefit related to the adoption of SFAS No. 143,
       Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  and a $1,136 charge related
      to the January 1, 2003 change in the method in which we recognize revenues
      and expenses related to publishing directories from the  issue basis 
      method to the  amortization 
method. 

6  

Dividends
      declared per common share in 2003 included three additional dividends
      totaling $0.25 per share above our regular quarterly dividend
      payout. 

7  

The
      number presented represents 100% of AT T Mobility cellular/PCS
      customers. The 2004 number includes customers from the acquisition of
      AT T Wireless Services, Inc. 

8  

In-region
      represents access lines serviced by our incumbent local exchange companies
      (in 22 states since the BellSouth acquisition and in 13 states prior to
      that acquisition). Beginning in 2006 the number includes BellSouth lines
      in service. 

9   
                Broadband
      connections include in-region DSL lines, in-region U-verse high-speed
      Internet access and satellite broadband.  

1  

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

For ease
of reading, AT T Inc. is referred to as  we,   AT T  or the  Company 
throughout this document and the names of the particular subsidiaries and
affiliates providing the services generally have been omitted. AT T is a
holding company whose subsidiaries and affiliates operate in the communications
services industry both in the United States and internationally providing
wireless and wireline telecommunications services and equipment as well as
directory advertising and publishing services. You should read this discussion
in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes. A reference to a  Note  in this section refers to the accompanying Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the tables throughout this section,
percentage increases and decreases that equal or exceed 100% are not considered
meaningful and are denoted with a dash. 

Results
of Operations 

       Consolidated
Results   Our financial results are summarized in the table
below. We then discuss factors affecting our overall results for the past three
years. These factors are discussed in more detail in our  Segment Results 
section. We also discuss our expected revenue and expense trends for 2008 in the
 Operating Environment and Trends of the Business  section. 

We
completed our acquisition of BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth) on December 29,
2006. We thereby acquired BellSouth s 40% economic interest in AT T Mobility
LLC (AT T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC (Cingular), resulting in
100% ownership of AT T Mobility. Our consolidated results in 2006 include
BellSouth s and AT T Mobility s operational results for the final two days
of the year. Prior to the acquisition, we reported the income from our 60% share
of AT T Mobility as equity in net income. We completed our acquisition of
AT T Corp. (ATTC) on November 18, 2005 and have included ATTC results during
2006 and for the 43-day period ended December 31, 2005. In accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), operating results from
BellSouth, AT T Mobility and ATTC prior to their respective acquisition
dates are excluded. 

Overview 

       Operating income   As
noted above, 2007 revenues and expenses reflect the addition of BellSouth s and
AT T Mobility s results while our 2006 results only include two days of
their results. Additionally, 2006 revenues and expenses reflect the addition of
ATTC s results while our 2005 results include only 43 days. Accordingly, the
following discussion of changes in our revenues and expenses is significantly
affected by these acquisitions. 

Our
operating income increased $10,116, or 98.3%, in 2007 and $4,120, or 66.8%, in
2006. Our operating income margin increased from 14.1% in 2005 to 16.3% in 2006
and to 17.2% in 2007. Operating income in 2007 increased primarily due to the
acquisition of BellSouth and increased in 2006 primarily due to the acquisition
of ATTC. The increased operating margins reflect expense reductions through
merger synergies, the addition of the higher-margined wireline operations at
BellSouth in 2007 and operational improvements partially offset by additional
amortization expense on those intangibles identified at the time of our
acquisitions and by non-merger severance. As we amortize several merger-related
intangible assets using the sum-of-the-months-digits method, amortization
expense decreases as the amount of time we hold the asset
increases. 

Our
operating income was slightly offset by the continued decline of our retail
access lines due to increased competition, as customers continued to disconnect
both primary and additional lines and switched to competitors  wireless, Voice
over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and cable offerings for voice and data. While we
lose the wireline voice revenues, we have the opportunity to increase wireless
service revenue should customers choose AT T Mobility as their alternative
provider. 

2 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Operating revenues  increased
$55,873, or 88.6%, in 2007 and $19,291, or 44.1%, in 2006. These increases were
primarily due to our acquisitions and to an increased demand for data products.
The increases were slightly offset by continued pressure on voice revenues,
reflecting access line decreases, and by decreased demand for local wholesale
services. 

Operating expenses  increased
$45,757, or 86.7%, in 2007 and $15,171, or 40.4%, in 2006, primarily due to our
acquisitions. Operating expenses included merger integration costs of $1,272 in
2007 and $774 in 2006, and amortization expense on intangible assets identified
at the time of acquisition of $5,921 in 2007 and $943 in 2006. We are amortizing
these intangibles using the sum-of-the-months-digits method, which means that we
will record higher expenses in earlier periods. Partially offsetting these
increases were merger synergies of approximately $3,000 in 2007 and $1,000 in
2006, reflecting progress with the integration of BellSouth, AT T Mobility
and ATTC, workforce reductions and other cost-reduction
initiatives. 

Interest expense  increased
$1,664, or 90.3%, in 2007 and $387, or 26.6%, in 2006. The increase in 2007 was
primarily due to higher average debt balances resulting from the inclusion of
BellSouth and AT T Mobility outstanding debt on our consolidated balance
sheet. The increase in 2006 was primarily due to recording a full year of
interest expense on ATTC outstanding debt. 

Equity in net income of affiliates
 Investments in partnerships, joint ventures and less-than-majority-owned
subsidiaries where we have significant influence are accounted for under the
equity method. Prior to the December 29, 2006 BellSouth acquisition (see Note
2), we accounted for our 60% economic interest in AT T Mobility
under the equity method since we shared control equally with BellSouth. AT T
Mobility is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T, and wireless results are
reflected in operating revenues and expenses in our consolidated statements of
income. 

Equity in
net income of affiliates decreased $1,351 in 2007. The decrease in 2007 was a
result of the change in accounting for AT T Mobility to a wholly-owned
subsidiary, partially offset by improved results from our investments in Am rica
M vil S.A. de C.V. (Am rica M vil) and Tel fonos de M xico, S.A. de C.V.
(Telmex). Equity in net income of affiliates increased $1,434 in 2006. The
increase in 2006 was primarily due to AT T Mobility s improved results, of
which $1,308 was our proportionate share. 

Other income (expense)  
net   We had other income of $615 in 2007, $393 in 2006 and
$397 in 2005. Results for 2007 included gains of $409 related to a wireless
spectrum license exchange, $166 in interest income, $148 from the sale of
administrative buildings and other non-strategic assets and $88 from other
non-operating activities. These gains were partially offset by $196 in minority
interest expense. 

Other
income for 2006 included interest income of $377. There were no individually
significant other income or expense transactions during 2006. Results for 2005
primarily included interest income of $383, a gain of $108 on the sales of
shares of Amdocs Limited, American Tower Corp. (American Tower) and Yahoo! Inc.
and other miscellaneous gains. These gains were partially offset by other 2005
expenses of $126 to reflect an increase in value of a third-party minority
holder s interest in an AT T subsidiary s preferred stock and other
miscellaneous expenses. 

Income taxes  increased $2,728,
or 77.4%, in 2007 and $2,593 in 2006. The increase in income taxes in 2007 was
primarily due to higher operating income in 2007 reflecting the addition of
BellSouth s and its share of AT T Mobility s operating results. Our
effective tax rate in 2007 was 34.4%, compared to 32.4% in 2006 and 16.3% in
2005. The increase in our effective tax rate for 2007 was primarily due to the
consolidation of AT T Mobility and an increase in income before income
taxes. Prior to the consolidation of AT T Mobility, our income before income
taxes included our equity in AT T Mobility s after-tax net income. With
consolidation, the AT T Mobility income tax expense that was previously
netted in income before income taxes is now included in our consolidated income
tax expense. 

The
increase in income tax expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the
higher income before income taxes in 2006 and our agreement in December 2005
with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to settle certain claims principally
related to the utilization of capital losses and tax credits for tax years 1997
  1999. The settlement reduced income tax expense by $902 in 2005, which also
lowered our effective tax rate for 2005. (See Note 10) 

3 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Supplemental
Information 

      To
provide improved comparability versus previous results, below is a supplemental
table providing pro forma consolidated operating revenues for 2005 and 2006,
assuming the closing date for the BellSouth and ATTC acquisitions was January 1,
2005. 

Supplemental
Consolidated Operating Revenues Information 

The pro
forma voice revenue decline is consistent with trends and is due to access line
declines reflecting competition and substitution of alternative technologies,
pricing pressures due to competition, anticipated shifts of traffic by major
consolidated carriers to their own networks and a continuing decline in the
number of ATTC s mass-market customers, which represent consumer and small
business. 

Pro forma
data growth was led by an increase in Internet Protocol (IP) data revenues of
13.3% in 2007 and 14.1% in 2006, with strength in high-speed Internet, managed
Internet, Virtual Private Network (VPN) and hosting services. Data transport
service revenues were up 0.7% in 2007 and 3.3% in 2006, and packet-switched data
revenues, which include frame relay and asynchronous transfer mode (ATM)
services, were down 7.0% and 12.5%, respectively, consistent with the industry
trend of customers switching to IP-based services from traditional circuit-based
services. 

Pro forma
wireless service growth was driven by subscriber growth and strong increases in
data usage, including increased messaging, browsing, downloads, media bundles
and laptop and smartphone connectivity. We have historically discussed our
wireless segment results on a basis that included 100% of AT T Mobility
results, and a detailed wireless service revenue discussion can be found in our
 Wireless Segment Results  section. 

Directory
results were lower in 2007 due to the purchase accounting treatment of
directories delivered by BellSouth s advertising and publishing businesses in
the 12 months prior to the merger (see Note 4). In accordance with GAAP, the
deferred revenues from these books were not included in the opening balance
sheet and are therefore not included in the 2007 consolidated directory
revenues. Had those deferred revenues been included in 2007, directory revenues
would have increased by $964. The pro forma revenues for 2005 and 2006 do not
reflect this purchase accounting treatment of deferred directory
revenues. 

Pro forma
other revenues decreased in 2007 and 2006 due to our decision to de-emphasize
sales of lower-margin, stand-alone customer premises equipment. 

4 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Segment
Results 

Our
segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services
and are managed accordingly. As a result of our acquisitions of BellSouth and
ATTC, we revised our segment reporting to represent how we now manage our
business, restating prior periods to conform to the current segments. Our
operating segment results presented in Note 4 and discussed below for each
segment follow our internal management reporting. We analyze our various
operating segments based on segment income before income taxes (see Note 4).
Each segment s percentage of total segment operating revenue and income
calculations is derived from our segment results table in Note 4 and reflects
amounts before eliminations. We have four reportable segments:
(1) wireless, (2) wireline, (3) advertising   publishing and
(4) other. 

The  wireless
segment  accounted for approximately 35% of our 2007 total segment
operating revenues as compared to 37% in 2006 and 32% of our 2007 total segment
income as compared to 27% in 2006. This segment offers wireless voice and data
communications services across the United States, providing cellular and PCS
services. This segment reflects 100% of the results reported by AT T
Mobility, which was our wireless joint venture with BellSouth prior to the
December 29, 2006 acquisition and is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T.
Prior to the acquisition, although we analyzed AT T Mobility s revenues and
expenses under the wireless segment, we eliminated the wireless segment in our
consolidated financial statements. In our 2006 and prior consolidated financial
statements we reported our 60% proportionate share of AT T Mobility s
results as equity in net income of affiliates. 

The  wireline  segment
 accounted for approximately 59% of our 2007 total segment operating
revenues as compared to 57% in 2006 and 55% of our 2007 total segment income as
compared to 47% in 2006. This segment provides both retail and wholesale
landline communications services, including local and long-distance voice,
switched access, IP and Internet access data, messaging services, managed
networking to business customers, AT T U-verse SM  TV
service (U-verse) and satellite television services through our agency
agreements with EchoStar Communications Corp. (EchoStar) and the DIRECTV Group,
Inc. (DIRECTV). With the BellSouth acquisition, we now provide local service in
22 states ( in-region ). 

The  advertising  
publishing segment  accounted for approximately 5% of our 2007 total
segment operating revenues as compared to 4% in 2006 and 9% of our 2007 total
segment income as compared to 12% in 2006. This segment includes our directory
operations, which publish Yellow and White Pages directories and sell directory
and Internet-based advertising. This segment also includes the results of our
Internet-based advertising business, YELLOWPAGES.COM (YPC), which was a joint
venture with BellSouth prior to the December 29, 2006 acquisition and is now a
wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T. For segment reporting disclosure, we have
carried forward the deferred revenue and deferred cost balances for BellSouth at
the acquisition date in order to reflect how the segment is managed. This is
different from consolidated reporting purposes as under Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 141,  Business Combinations  (FAS 141), BellSouth
deferred revenue and expenses from directories published during the 12-month
period ending with the December 29, 2006 acquisition date are not recognized and
therefore were not included in the opening balance sheet. For management
reporting purposes, we continue to amortize these balances over the life of the
directory (typically 12 months). Thus, our advertising   publishing segment
results for 2007 include revenues of $964 and expenses of $308, related to
directories published in the Southeast region during 2006, prior to our
acquisition of BellSouth. These amounts are eliminated in our consolidated
results (see Note 4). 

The  other
segment  accounted for approximately 1% of our 2007 total segment
operating revenues as compared to 2% in 2006 and 4% of our 2007 total segment
income as compared to 14% in 2006. This segment includes results from Sterling
Commerce, Inc. (Sterling), customer information services, payphone, and all
corporate and other operations. Additionally, this segment includes our portion
of the results from our international equity investments. Prior to December 29,
2006, this segment also included our results from AT T Mobility as
equity in net income of affiliates, as discussed above. 

The
following tables show components of results of operations by segment. We discuss
significant segment results following each table. We discuss capital
expenditures for each segment in  Liquidity and Capital
Resources.  

5  

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Wireless 

      Segment
Results 

1   

Minority
      interest is recorded as  Other Income (Expense)   Net  in the consolidated
      statements of income. 

Accounting
for AT T Mobility 

      The
wireless segment reflects 100% of the results reported by AT T Mobility
(formerly Cingular), which was our wireless joint venture with BellSouth prior
to the December 29, 2006 acquisition, at which time it became a wholly-owned
subsidiary of AT T. Prior to the BellSouth acquisition (see Note 2), we
accounted for our 60% economic interest in AT T Mobility under the equity
method since we shared control equally with BellSouth. This means that our
consolidated results in 2006 and 2005 included our 60% share of AT T
Mobility s results in  Equity in net income of affiliates  in our consolidated
statements of income. Following the BellSouth acquisition, AT T Mobility
became a wholly-owned subsidiary and AT T Mobility s results are included as
operating revenues and expenses in our consolidated statements of income.
Accordingly, results from this segment for the last two days of 2006 were
included in our operating revenues and expenses and not in the  Equity in net
income (loss) of affiliates  line. However, for all the periods presented, the
wireless segment reflects 100% of the results reported by AT T Mobility
based on the management of the business. 

Dobson
Acquisition  

      In
November 2007, we acquired Dobson Communications Corporation (Dobson). Dobson
marketed wireless services under the Cellular One brand and had provided roaming
services to AT T subsidiaries since 1990. Dobson had 1.7 million subscribers
across 17 states, mostly in rural and suburban areas with a population covered
of more than 12.6 million people. Dobson was incorporated into our wireless
operations subsequent to our acquisition. Our 2007 results included net revenue
of $141 and expense of $109 from Dobson. 

Wireless
Customer and Operating Trends 

      As of
December 31, 2007, we served 70.1 million wireless customers, compared to 61.0
million at December 31, 2006 and 54.1 million at December 31, 2005.
Approximately 70% of our wireless customer net additions in 2007 were retail
customer additions, and 75% of these additions were postpaid customer additions.
Contributing to our net additions and retail customer growth was improvement in
customer turnover (customer churn) levels due to our strong network performance
and attractive products and services offerings, including the Apple iPhone,
which were partially offset by a slowing growth rate of new wireless users
reflecting a maturing domestic wireless industry. The improvement in churn
levels benefited from network and customer service improvements and continued
high levels of advertising. Also contributing to the increase in net additions
was a significant increase in prepaid gross additions. Gross customer additions
were 20.1 million in 2007, 19.2 million in 2006 and 18.5 million in 2005.
Postpaid customer gross additions declined primarily due to higher postpaid
market penetration and market maturation, as well as lower industry postpaid
churn. 

As the
wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth
will become increasingly dependent on our ability to offer innovative services,
which will encourage existing customers to upgrade their current services and
handsets and will attract customers from other providers, as well as on our
ability to minimize customer churn. Average service revenue per user/customer
(ARPU) increased 2.2% compared to 2006 primarily due to increased data services
ARPU growth. In 2007, data services ARPU grew 46.9% compared to 2006. The
continued increase in data revenue was related to increased use of text
messaging, Internet access, e-mail and other data services, which we expect to
grow as we continue expanding our third-generation (3G) services. The growth in
data ARPU was partially offset by a decline in voice service ARPU of 4.1%
compared to 2006, reflecting a higher percentage of prepaid and reseller
customers, which provide significantly lower ARPU than postpaid customers, and
continued shifts to all-inclusive rate plans that offer lower monthly charges.
We expect continued pressure on voice service ARPU. 

6  

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

ARPU
declined 1.1% in 2006 due to decreases in local service, net roaming and other
revenue per customer mostly offset by a 44.8% increase in data ARPU and
increased long-distance revenue per customer. In 2006, local service revenue per
customer declined primarily due to the two reasons discussed above as well as
free mobile-to-mobile plans that allow our wireless customers to call other
AT T Mobility customers at no charge and, to a lesser extent, Rollover    minutes. An increase in
customers on Rollover plans tends to lower ARPU, since unused minutes (and
associated revenue) are deferred until subsequent months for up to one
year. 

The
effective management of customer churn also is critical to our ability to
maximize revenue growth and to maintain and improve margins. Customer churn is
calculated by dividing the aggregate number of wireless customers who cancel
service during each month in a period by the total number of wireless customers
at the beginning of each month in that period. Our customer churn rate was 1.7%
in 2007, down from 1.8% in 2006 and 2.2% in 2005. The churn rate for postpaid
customers was 1.3% in 2007, down from 1.5% in 2006 and 1.9% in 2005. The decline
in postpaid churn reflects higher network quality, more affordable rate plans
and broader network coverage as well as exclusive devices and free
mobile-to-mobile calling among our wireless customers. Churn levels were
slightly negatively impacted by ongoing transition of customers from our older
analog and Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) platforms to our advanced Global
System for Mobile Communication (GSM) network. We plan to cease operating our
analog and TDMA networks in early 2008. The increasing mix of prepaid and
reseller customers in our customer base are also expected to pressure churn
rates in the future. 

Wireless
Operating Results 

      Our
wireless segment operating income margin was 16.4% in 2007, 12.2% in 2006 and
5.3% in 2005. The higher margin in 2007 was primarily due to revenue growth of
$5,147, which exceeded our increase in operating expenses of $2,699. The higher
margin in 2006 was primarily due to revenue growth of $3,069, which exceeded our
increase in operating expenses of $324. 

Service  revenues are comprised
of local voice and data services, roaming, long-distance and other revenue.
Service revenues increased $4,890, or 14.5%, in 2007 and $3,115, or 10.2%, in
2006 and consisted of: 

Data
      revenue increases of $2,692, or 63.3%, in 2007 and $1,579, or 59.0%, in
      2006. The increase in 2007 is primarily due to the increased number of
      data users and an increase in data ARPU of 46.9%, which primarily resulted
      from increased use of text messaging, e-mail, data access and media
      bundling services. Our significant data growth also reflects an increased
      number of subscribers using our 3G network. The increase in 2006 was
      related to increased use of text messaging and Internet access services,
      which resulted in an increase in data ARPU of 44.8%. Data service revenues
      represented approximately 18.0% of our wireless segment service revenues
      in 2007 and 12.6% in 2006. 

Voice
      revenue increases of $2,135, or 7.3%, in 2007 and $1,592, or 5.8%, in
      2006. The increase in 2007 was primarily due to an increase in the number
      of average wireless customers of approximately 12.1%, partially offset by
      a decline in voice ARPU of 4.1%. The increase in 2006 was primarily due to
      an increase in the average number of wireless customers of 11.5%,
      partially offset by competitive pricing pressures and the impact of
      various all-inclusive calling and prepaid plans. Included in voice
      revenues for both periods were increases in long-distance and net roaming
      revenue due to increased international
usage. 

Equipment  revenues increased
$257, or 6.9%, in 2007 and decreased $46, or 1.2%, in 2006. The increase in 2007
was due to higher handset revenues reflecting increased gross customer additions
and customer upgrades to more advanced handsets, partially offset by increased
equipment discounts and rebate activity. The slight decrease in 2006 was due to
a decline in handset revenues as a result of increased rebates and equipment
return credits and lower priced handsets, mostly offset by increased sales of
handset units, handset upgrades and accessories. 

Cost of services and equipment
sales  expenses increased $934, or 6.2%, in 2007 and $669, or 4.6%, in
2006. The 2007 increase was primarily due to increased equipment sales expense
of $1,140 due to the overall increase in sales as well as an increase in sales
of higher-cost 3G devices, the introduction of the Apple iPhone handset and an
increase in the number and per-unit cost of handset accessory sales. Total
equipment costs continue to be higher than equipment revenues due to the sale of
handsets below cost, through direct sales sources, to customers who committed to
one-year or two-year contracts or in connection with other
promotions. 

7 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Cost of
services declined $206 in 2007. This decline was due to lower interconnect,
roaming and long-distance expenses related to network and systems integration
and cost-reduction initiatives, as well as cost reductions from the continued
migration of network usage from the T-Mobile USA (T-Mobile) network in
California and Nevada to our networks in these states. Our remaining purchase
commitment to T-Mobile for this transition period was $51 at December 31, 2007.
These decreases were partially offset by higher network usage, with increases in
total system minutes of use (MOU) of 13.5%, and associated network system
expansion and increased network equipment costs. 

Expenses
increased in 2006 primarily due to increases in network usage and associated
network system expansion. Cost of services increased $492, or 5.3%, in 2006 due
to the following: 

Increases
      in network usage with a total system MOU increase of 20.6% related to the
      increase in customers. Additionally, average MOUs per customer increased
      8.2%. 

Higher
      roaming and long-distance costs, partially offset by a decline in reseller
      expenses. The reseller decrease resulted from a decrease in MOUs on the
      T-Mobile network of more than 50% for
2006. 

Integration
      costs, primarily for network integration, of
  $229. 

Equipment
sales expenses increased $177, or 3.5%, in 2006 due to increased handset
upgrades of 11.2% and an increase in the average cost per upgrade and accessory
sold, partially offset by a decline in the average cost per handset sold to new
customers. 

Selling, general and administrative
 expenses increased $1,148, or 10.0%, in 2007 and decreased $199, or 1.7%,
in 2006. 

The
increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007 was due to the
following: 

Increases
      in selling expenses of $572 due to increases in sales and advertising
      expenses and Apple iPhone-related costs, partially offset by a decrease in
      net commission expense, which was consistent with the increase in prepaid
      plan sales as a percentage of total retail
  sales. 

Increases
      of $572 in customer service and other expenses primarily due to increased
      bad-debt expense of $338 and other support costs of $234, partially offset
      by a decline of $191 in billing expenses, lower information technology
      (IT) costs and customer service
expenses. 

Increases
      in upgrade commission and residual expenses of $195 due to increased
      prepaid plan costs and higher handset upgrade
  activity. 

The
decline in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006 was due to the
following: 

Decreases
      in billing and bad-debt expense of $378 primarily due to fewer account
      write-offs and cost-savings related to transitioning to one billing
      system. 

Decreases
      in other administrative expense of $106 due to a decline in legal-related
      expenses, lower employee costs and employee-related benefits due to a
      decrease in the number of employees, lower IT and other professional
      services expense and a federal excise tax refund
  accrual. 

Decreases
      in customer service expense of $87 due to a decline in the number of
      outsourced call center professionals and lower billing
      expenses. 

Increases
      of $147 primarily related to increased prepaid card replenishment costs
      and higher migration and upgrade transaction
  costs. 

Increases
      in other expense of $129 due to higher warranty, refurbishment and freight
      costs. 

Increases
      in selling expense of $96 due to an increase in sales expense, partially
      offset by a decrease in net commission expenses. The decline in net
      commission expense was due to reductions in average activation and agent
      branding expense, partially offset by an increase in direct commission
      expense. 

The
expenses above also include merger integration costs of $123 in 2006, such as
employee-termination costs, rebranding and advertising and customer service and
systems integration costs. 

Depreciation and amortization 
increased $617, or 9.5%, in 2007 and decreased $146, or 2.2%, in 2006. The
increase in 2007 was primarily due to an increase of $1,522 in amortization of
identifiable intangible assets related to our acquisition of BellSouth s 40%
ownership interest, partially offset by declining amortization of identifiable
AT T Wireless Services, Inc. (AWE) intangible assets acquired by AT T
Mobility in 2004, which are principally amortized using the
sum-of-the-months-digits method of amortization. Expenses also increased due to
accelerated depreciation on TDMA assets and ongoing capital spending for network
upgrades and expansion. The 2007 increase was partially offset by decreases in
depreciation expense of $905 in 2007 due to certain network assets becoming
fully depreciated and purchase accounting adjustments on certain network assets
related to acquiring BellSouth s 40% ownership interest of AT T
Mobility. 

8 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
decline in 2006 was due to a decline in amortization expenses of $449
attributable to the AWE intangible assets mentioned above, which are amortized
using an accelerated method of amortization. This decline was partially offset
by an increase in depreciation expense of $303 in 2006 primarily due to
depreciation associated with the property, plant and equipment related to
ongoing capital spending for our GSM network, which was slightly offset by
expense declines due to equipment that had become fully depreciated in
2006. 

Wireline 

      Segment
Results 

Operating
Margin Trends 

      Our
wireline segment operating income margin was 16.4% in 2007, compared to 13.8% in
2006 and 9.6% in 2005. Our wireline segment operating income increased $3,848,
or 48.6%, in 2007 and $4,235 in 2006 primarily reflecting the addition of
BellSouth s operating results in 2007 and ATTC s operating results in 2006.
Results for 2007 reflect lower expenses as a result of merger synergies and the
addition of higher-margined operations of BellSouth, partially offset by
merger-related charges and additional amortization expense on those intangibles
identified at the time of our acquisitions of BellSouth and ATTC. Our operating
income continued to be pressured by access line declines due to increased
competition, as customers disconnected both primary and additional lines and
switched to alternative technologies, such as wireless, VoIP and cable for voice
and data. Our strategy is to offset these line losses by increasing
non-access-line-related revenues from customer connections for data, video and
voice. For example, we have the opportunity to increase wireless segment
revenues if customers choose AT T Mobility as an alternative
provider. 

Operating
income and margins increased in 2006 primarily due to lower expenses as a result
of merger synergies partially offset by additional amortization expense on those
intangibles identified at the time of our acquisition of ATTC and lower voice
revenue as a result of continued in-region access line declines due to the
reasons mentioned above. 

9  

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Voice  revenues increased
$7,916, or 23.5%, in 2007 and $9,534 or 39.4%, in 2006 primarily due to the
acquisitions of BellSouth and ATTC. Included in voice revenues are revenues from
local voice, long-distance and local wholesale services. Voice revenues do not
include VoIP revenues, which are included in data revenues. 

Local
      voice revenues increased $6,831, or 38.4%, in 2007 and $826, or 4.9%, in
      2006. The increase in 2007 was primarily due to the acquisition of
      BellSouth, which increased local voice revenues approximately $8,040.
      Local voice revenues also increased in 2007 due to pricing increases for
      regional telephone service, custom calling features and inside wire
      maintenance agreements. Local voice revenues in 2007 and 2006 were
      negatively impacted by expected declines in revenues from ATTC s
      mass-market customers to which no proactive marketing occurs and from
      customer demand-related declines for calling features and inside wire
      agreements. We expect our local voice revenue to continue to be negatively
      affected by increased competition, including customers shifting to
      competitors  alternative technologies and the disconnection of additional
      lines for DSL service and other
reasons. 

Long-distance
      revenues increased $761, or 5.3%, in 2007 primarily due to the acquisition
      of BellSouth, which increased long-distance revenues approximately $2,075
      and $9,256 in 2006, primarily due to the acquisition of ATTC. Contributing
      to the revenue increases in 2007 and 2006 were continuing higher
      long-distance penetration levels in our original 13-state region. These
      increases were primarily offset by a continuing decrease in demand for
      long-distance service, mostly due to an expected decline in ATTC s
      mass-market customers. Our long-distance revenue increase was also
      partially offset by competitive pricing for large-business customers and a
      decrease in demand for prepaid calling
cards. 

Data  revenues increased
$5,758, or 31.4%, in 2007 primarily due to the acquisition of BellSouth, which
increased data revenues approximately $5,230, and increased $7,534, or 69.9%, in
2006 primarily due to the acquisition of ATTC. Data revenues accounted for
approximately 34% of our wireline operating revenues in 2007, 32% in 2006 and
28% in 2005. Data revenues include transport, IP and packet-switched data
services. 

IP data
revenues increased $3,080, or 47.6%, in 2007 primarily due to the acquisition of
BellSouth, which increased IP data approximately $2,235, and increased $3,044,
or 88.7%, in 2006 primarily due to the acquisition of ATTC. Included in IP data
revenues are DSL, dedicated Internet access, VPN and other hosting services.
VPN, hosting and dedicated Internet access services contributed to IP data
growth in 2007 and 2006 due to continued growth in the customer base and
migration from other traditional circuit-based products. 

Our
transport services, which include DS1s and DS3s (types of dedicated
high-capacity lines) and SONET (a dedicated high-speed solution for multisite
businesses), increased $2,640, or 29.7%, in 2007 almost entirely due to the
acquisition of BellSouth, which increased transport services revenues $2,730. In
2007, SONET and other transport data revenues increased due to continuing
high-speed volume growth. These increases were almost entirely offset by DS1 and
DS3 revenue decreases due to continuing industry pricing pressures and higher
levels of customer adjustments. In 2006, transport services revenues increased
$2,362, or 36.3%, primarily due to the acquisition of ATTC. 

Our
packet-switched services include frame relay, ATM and managed packet services
and increased $38, or 1.3%, in 2007 primarily due to the acquisition of
BellSouth, which increased packet-switched service revenues $265. This increase
was almost entirely offset by both competitive pricing and lower demand as
customers continue to shift to IP-based technology. We expect these services to
continue to decline as a percentage of our overall data revenues.
Packet-switched services increased $2,128 in 2006 primarily due to the
acquisition of ATTC. 

Other  operating revenues
increased $425, or 7.8%, in 2007 and $1,956, or 56.0%, in 2006. The increases
were due to incremental revenue from our acquisitions of BellSouth in 2007 and
ATTC in 2006. Major items included in other operating revenues are integration
services and customer premises equipment, government-related services,
outsourcing and state and municipal fees, which account for more than 67% of
total revenue for all periods. Equipment sales and related network integration
and management services decreased $274 in 2007 and $176 in 2006 primarily due to
less emphasis on the sale of lower-margin equipment. Revenue also decreased by
$70 in 2007 due to the recognition of intellectual property license fees in 2006
that did not recur in 2007. 

10 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Cost of sales  expenses
increased $3,521, or 13.2%, in 2007 and $9,229, or 52.8%, in 2006. The increases
were primarily due to incremental expenses resulting from our acquisitions of
BellSouth in 2007 and ATTC in 2006. Cost of sales consists of costs we incur in
order to provide our products and services, including costs of operating and
maintaining our networks and personnel costs, such as salary, wage and bonus
accruals. Costs in this category include our repair technicians and repair
services, certain network planning and engineering expenses, operator services,
information technology and property taxes related to elements of our network.
Pension and postretirement costs, net of amounts capitalized as part of
construction labor, are also included to the extent that they are associated
with these employees. 

In
addition to the impact of the BellSouth acquisition, cost of sales in 2007
increased due to the following: 

Higher
      nonemployee-related expenses, such as contract services, agent commissions
      and materials and supplies costs, of
$605. 

Salary
      and wage merit increases and other bonus accrual adjustments of
      $165. 

Partially
offsetting these increases, cost of sales in 2007 decreased due to: 

Lower
      traffic compensation expenses (for access to another carrier s network) of
      $831 primarily due to migration of long-distance calls onto our network
      and a lower volume of calls from ATTC s declining national mass-market
      customer base. 

Lower
      net pension and postretirement cost of $398, primarily due to changes in
      our actuarial assumptions, including the increase of our discount rate
      from 5.75% to 6.00% (a decrease to expense) and favorable investment
      returns on plan assets resulting in a decrease in the recognition of net
      losses from prior years. 

Lower
      cost of equipment sales and related network integration services of $300,
      primarily due to less emphasis on sales of lower-margin equipment. Costs
      associated with equipment for large-business customers (as well as DSL)
      typically are greater than costs associated with services that are
      provided over multiple years. 

In
addition to the impact of the ATTC acquisition, cost of sales in 2006 increased
due to the following: 

Higher
      nonemployee-related expenses, such as contract services, agent commissions
      and materials and supplies costs, of
$163. 

Higher
      benefit expenses, consisting primarily of our combined net pension and
      postretirement cost, increased expense $159, primarily due to changes in
      our actuarial assumptions, which included the reduction of our discount
      rate from 6.00% to 5.75% (which increases expense), and amortization of
      net losses on plan assets in prior
years. 

Higher
      traffic compensation expenses (for access to another carrier s network) of
      $109 primarily due to increased volume of local traffic (telephone calls)
      terminating on competitor networks and wireless
  customers. 

Partially
offsetting these increases, cost of sales in 2006 decreased due to: 

A
      reduction in equipment sales and related network integration services of
      $418, primarily due to lower demand and as a result of the September 2005
      amendment of our agreement for our co-branded AT T | DISH Network
      satellite TV service. Prior to restructuring our relationship with
      EchoStar in September 2005, we had been recording both revenue and
      expenses for AT T | DISH Network satellite TV customers, resulting in
      relatively high initial customer-acquisition
  costs. 

Lower
      employee levels, which decreased expenses, primarily salary and wages, by
      $296. 

A
      change made during 2006 in our policy regarding the timing for earning
      vacation days decreased expenses
$225. 

11 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Selling, general and administrative
 expenses increased $2,995, or 22.7%, in 2007 and $3,310, or 33.5%, in
2006. The increases were primarily due to incremental expenses resulting from
our acquisitions of BellSouth in 2007 and ATTC in 2006. Selling, general and
administrative expenses consist of our provision for uncollectible accounts;
advertising costs; sales and marketing functions, including our retail and
wholesale customer service centers; centrally managed real estate costs,
including maintenance and utilities on all owned and leased buildings; credit
and collection functions; and corporate overhead costs, such as finance, legal,
human resources and external affairs. Pension and postretirement costs are also
included to the extent that they relate to those employees. 

In
addition to the impact of the BellSouth acquisition, selling, general and
administrative expenses in 2007 increased due to the following: 

Salary
      and wage merit increases and other bonus accrual adjustments of
      $102. 

Higher
      provision for uncollectible accounts of
$80. 

Partially
offsetting these increases, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007
decreased due to: 

Lower
      net pension and postretirement cost of $243, primarily due to changes in
      our actuarial assumptions, including the increase of our discount rate
      from 5.75% to 6.00% (a decrease to expense) and favorable investment
      returns on plan assets resulting in a decrease in the recognition of net
      losses from prior years. 

Lower
      employee levels, which decreased expenses, primarily salary and wages, by
      $222. 

Lower
      nonemployee-related expenses, such as contract services, agent commissions
      and materials and supplies costs, of
$148. 

In
addition to the impact of the ATTC acquisition, selling, general and
administrative expenses in 2006 also increased due to the
following: 

Other
      wireline segment costs of $809 primarily due to advertising costs related
      to promotion of the AT T brand name. In addition, other advertising
      expenses increased $117. 

Higher
      nonemployee-related expenses, such as contract services, agent commissions
      and materials and supplies costs of
$103. 

Higher
      benefit expenses, consisting primarily of our combined net pension and
      postretirement cost, increased expense $73, primarily due to changes in
      our actuarial assumptions, which included the reduction of our discount
      rate from 6.00% to 5.75% (which increases expense) and net losses on plan
      assets in prior years. 

Partially
offsetting these increases, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006
decreased due to: 

Lower
      employee levels, which decreased expenses, primarily salary and wages, by
      $239. 

A
      charge of $236 in 2005 to terminate existing agreements with WilTel
      Communications due to our acquisition of
ATTC. 

A
      change made during 2006 in our policy regarding the timing for earning
      vacation days, which decreased expenses
$96. 

Our
      provision for uncollectible accounts decreased $87, as we experienced
      fewer losses from our retail customers and a decrease in bankruptcy
      filings by our wholesale customers. 

Depreciation and amortization 
expenses increased $3,735, or 38.6%, in 2007 and $2,250, or 30.3%, in 2006
primarily due to higher depreciable and amortizable asset bases as a result of
the BellSouth acquisition in 2006 and the ATTC acquisition in 2005. 

12 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Supplemental
Information 

Access
Line, Broadband Connections and Video Connections Summary 

      Our
in-region switched access lines at December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 are shown
below and access line trends are addressed throughout this segment discussion.
Because our acquisition of BellSouth has a significant effect on comparative
information, we have included pro-forma amounts below as of 2006 for comparative
purposes, as if the companies had been combined. 

1   
               Wireline
      in-region represents access lines served by AT T's  incumbent local exchange
      companies ( ILECs).  

2    
               Prior
      period amounts restated to conform to current period reporting
      methodology.  

3  

Competitive
      local exchange carriers (CLECs). 

4  

Payphone
      lines are presented above as previously reported. Revenue from these lines
      is reported in the Other segment. 

5  

Broadband
      connections include DSL, U-verse high-speed Internet access and satellite
      broadband. 

6  

Satellite
      service includes connections under our agency and resale agreements with
      EchoStar and DIRECTV. 

13 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Advertising
  Publishing  

      Segment
Results 

Ingenio
Acquisition 

      In
December 2007, we acquired Ingenio   , a
provider of Pay Per Call   
technology. Ingenio will be integrated with YPC and will allow us to better
serve business directory and local search customers across our entire
advertising and publishing portfolio. 

Accounting
Impacts From the BellSouth Acquisition 

      Prior to
the BellSouth acquisition (see Note 2), we accounted for our 66% economic
interest in YPC under the equity method since we shared control equally with
BellSouth. Following the BellSouth acquisition, YPC became a wholly-owned
subsidiary of AT T and its results are reflected in operating revenues and
expenses in our consolidated statement of income. 

For
segment disclosure purposes, we have carried forward deferred revenue and
deferred cost balances for BellSouth in order to reflect how the segment is
managed. This is different from consolidated reporting purposes as under FAS 141
BellSouth deferred revenue and expenses from directories published during the
12-month period ending with the December 29, 2006 acquisition date are not
recognized and therefore were not included in the opening balance sheet (see
Note 4). For management reporting purposes, we continued to amortize these
balances over the life of the directory (typically 12 months). Thus, our
advertising   publishing segment results include revenue of $964 and
expenses of $308 in 2007 related to directories published in the Southeast
region during 2006, prior to our acquisition of BellSouth. 

Operating
Results 

      Our
advertising   publishing segment operating income margin
was 31.8% in 2007, 52.8% in 2006 and 54.1% in 2005. The
decrease in the segment operating income margin in 2007 was primarily due to the
addition of BellSouth s operating results, including the amortization of
BellSouth s customer lists acquired as a part of the acquisition. The decrease
in the segment operating income margin in 2006 was primarily the result of
increased operating expenses. 

Operating revenues  increased
$2,166, or 58.8%, in 2007, primarily due to the addition of BellSouth s
operating results, which increased operating revenues approximately $2,220 in
2007. The increase was largely driven by print advertising revenue of $1,859 and
Internet advertising revenue of $200. Operating revenues in 2006 remained
relatively unchanged. 

Operating expenses  increased
$2,250 in 2007 compared to $50, or 3.0%, in 2006 primarily due to the addition
of BellSouth s operating results, which increased total operating expenses by
approximately $2,110 in 2007. The increase in 2006 was primarily due to higher
costs for Internet traffic, brand advertising and employee
benefits. 

Cost of sales  increased $612,
or 54.6%, in 2007 compared to $17, or 1.5%, in 2006, primarily due to the
addition of BellSouth s operating results, which increased cost of sales by
approximately $550 in 2007. Publishing, commissions, paper and printing costs
represent the majority of cost of sales expenses in 2007. The increase in 2006
was primarily due to higher costs for Internet traffic. 

Selling, general and
administrative  expenses increased $717 in 2007 compared to $35, or 6.0%,
in 2006 primarily due to the addition of BellSouth s operating results, which
increased selling, general and administrative expenses by approximately $645 in
2007. Employee, uncollectible and advertising-related expenses represent the
majority of selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007. Increased
expenses in 2006 were primarily due to increases in other advertising  
publishing segment costs, including brand advertising and employee benefits of
$102, partially offset by lower bad-debt expense of $74. 

14 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Depreciation and amortization 
expenses increased $921 in 2007, resulting from the amortization of customer
lists acquired as a part of the BellSouth acquisition, which increased expenses
by $915 in 2007. Depreciation and amortization expenses in 2006 remained
relatively unchanged. 

Other 

      Segment
Results 

Our other
segment operating results consist primarily of Sterling, customer information
services, corporate and other operations. Sterling provides business-integration
software and services. In late 2007, we announced our intention to cease our
retail payphone operations by the end of 2008, which is reflected in the
operating revenues and expenses discussion below. 

Operating revenues  increased
$356, or 19.0%, in 2007 and $147, or 8.5%, in 2006. The increase in 2007 was
primarily due to the addition of BellSouth s other operations and increased
operating revenue at Sterling, partially offset by decreased revenues from our
retail payphone operations. The increase in 2006 was primarily due to increased
intercompany revenue from our captive insurance company (shown as intersegment
revenue in Note 4) and improved operating revenue at Sterling, partially offset
by a decrease in revenue as a result of the sale of our paging subsidiary in
November 2005. 

Operating expenses  increased
$342, or 23.0%, in 2007 and $237, or 19.0%, in 2006. The increase in 2007 was
primarily due to the addition of BellSouth s other operations and increased
operating expenses at Sterling, partially offset by decreased expenses from our
retail payphone operations. The increase in 2006 was primarily due to increased
operating expenses at Sterling and at our captive insurance company, partially
offset by management fees paid in 2005 that did not recur in 2006. 

Prior to
the December 29, 2006 close of the BellSouth acquisition, our other segment
included our 60% proportionate share of AT T Mobility results as equity in
net income of affiliates. As a result of the BellSouth acquisition, we own 100%
of AT T Mobility and its results for the final two days of 2006 and for the
year 2007 have been excluded from equity in net income of affiliates in this
segment and in our consolidated statements of income. 

15 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Our other
segment also includes our equity investments in international companies, the
income from which we report as equity in net income of affiliates. Our earnings
from foreign affiliates are sensitive to exchange-rate changes in the value of
the respective local currencies. Our foreign investments are recorded under
GAAP, which include adjustments for the purchase method of accounting and
exclude certain adjustments required for local reporting in specific countries.
Our equity in net income of affiliates by major investment is listed
below: 

Equity in net income of
affiliates  decreased $1,344 in 2007 primarily due to a change in
accounting for AT T Mobility, the results of which are no longer included in
equity in net income of affiliates in 2007 due to the acquisition of BellSouth.
This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $150 from Am rica M vil and
Telmex primarily due to improved operating results. Equity in net income
increased $1,391 in 2006, primarily due to the improved operating results at
AT T Mobility. 

Operating
Environment and Trends of the Business 

2008 Revenue
Trends   We expect continued expansion of our operating revenues
in 2008, reflecting continuing growth in our wireless and broadband/data
services. We expect our primary driver of growth to be wireless and that all our
major customer categories will continue to increase their use of Internet-based
broadband/data services. For our enterprise (largest) business customers, we
achieved positive growth in recurring service revenues beginning in the third
quarter of 2007 and expect total enterprise revenues to grow throughout 2008.
Revenue growth will also reflect the increased information and technology
services to be provided for under our agreements with IBM. We also expect
continued revenue growth from our small and medium business customers. We expect
modest growth in our consumer wireline revenues with continuing declines in
traditional access lines being offset by growth in broadband and video services.
We expect solid growth in broadband revenues with improvement in ARPU as
customers continue to choose higher-speed services. We expect to continue to
expand our U-verse service offerings with the goal of exceeding one million
subscribers in service by the end of 2008. 

2008 Expense
Trends   Acquisition and related merger costs and the costs
involved in providing services under the IBM agreements will adversely affect
expenses in 2008. We expect that our operating income margin, adjusted to
exclude these costs, will expand in 2008 due primarily to expected improvement
in our revenues and continued cost-control measures. In particular, we expect to
continue net workforce reductions and other previously identified merger
synergies and to begin new cost-control initiatives in network operations,
information technology and customer care. Expenses related to growth initiatives
(see  Expected Growth Areas ) will apply some pressure to our operating income
margin. 

Operating Environment
Overview  

      AT T
subsidiaries operating within the U.S. are subject to federal and state
regulatory authorities. AT T subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are
subject to the jurisdiction of national and supranational regulatory authorities
in the markets where service is provided, and regulation is generally limited to
operational licensing authority for the provision of services to enterprise
customers. 

In the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), Congress established a national
policy framework intended to bring the benefits of competition and investment in
advanced telecommunications facilities and services to all Americans by opening
all telecommunications markets to competition and reducing or eliminating
burdensome regulation. Since the Telecom Act was passed, the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) and some state regulatory commissions have
maintained many of the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to our
traditional wireline subsidiaries. We are actively pursuing additional
legislative and regulatory measures to reduce or eliminate regulatory
requirements that inhibit our ability to provide the full range of services
demanded by our customers. For example, we are supporting regulatory and
legislative efforts that would offer a streamlined process for new video service
providers to compete with traditional cable television providers. In March 2007,
the FCC released an order adopting rules that prohibit municipalities from
making unnecessary and unreasonable demands on competitive video service
providers, and which require prompt action by such localities on cable franchise
applications by new entrants. In addition, states representing a majority of our
local service access lines have adopted legislation that enables new video
entrants to acquire a statewide or state-approved (as opposed to
municipal-approved) franchise to offer video services. We also are supporting
efforts to update regulatory treatment for retail services. Passage of
legislation is uncertain and depends on many factors. 

16 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Our
wireless operations are likewise subject to substantial governmental regulation.
Wireless communications providers must be licensed by the FCC to provide
communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified
geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use
of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC. While wireless communications providers 
prices and service offerings are generally not subject to state regulation, an
increasing number of states are attempting to regulate or legislate various
aspects of wireless services, such as in the area of consumer protection.
Additionally, we have noted our opposition to proposals to impose  net
neutrality  access regulation on wireless providers. We believe that the
wireless industry is characterized by innovation, differentiation and
competition among handset manufacturers, carriers and applications and that
additional broadband regulation and new wholesale requirements are unnecessary
given the state of competition and may be appropriate only in the case of market
failure. 

We expect
that our capital expenditures will continue to be in the midteens as a
percentage of total revenues in 2008. This amount includes capital for U-verse
services, wireless high-speed networks and merger-integration projects
(discussed in  Expected Growth Areas ). Despite a more positive regulatory
outlook and these broadband opportunities, increasing competition and the growth
of alternative technologies such as cable, wireless and VoIP have created
significant challenges for our business. 

Expected
Growth Areas 

      We expect
our wireless services and primary wireline products to remain the most
significant portion of our business and have also discussed trends affecting the
segments in which we report results for these products (see  Wireless Segment
Results  and  Wireline Segment Results ). Over the next few years we expect an
increasing percentage of our growth to come from: (1) our wireless service, and
(2) data/broadband, through existing and new services. We expect that our
previous acquisitions will enable us to strengthen the reach and sophistication
of our network facilities, increase our large-business customer base and enhance
the opportunity to market wireless services to that customer base. Whether, or
the extent to which, growth in these areas will offset declines in other areas
of our business is not known. 

Wireless   Wireless
is our fastest-growing revenue stream and we expect to deliver continued revenue
growth in the coming years. We believe that we are at the beginning of the
wireless data growth curve and that there are substantial opportunities
available for next-generation converged services that combine wireless,
broadband, voice and video. 

Our
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System/High-Speed Downlink Packet Access 3G
network technology covers most major metropolitan areas of the U.S. This
technology provides superior speeds for data and video services, and it offers
operating efficiencies by using the same spectrum and infrastructure for voice
and data on an IP-based platform. Our wireless networks also rely on digital
transmission technologies known as GSM, General Packet Radio Services and
Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution for data communications. As of December
31, 2007, we served more than 70 million customers and are the leading provider
of mobile wireless voice and data communications services in the
U.S. 

As the
wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth
will become increasingly dependent on our ability to offer innovative services
that will encourage existing customers to upgrade their services, either by
adding additional or new services, such as data enhancements, or through
equipment upgrades, and will attract customers from other providers, as well as
our ability to minimize customer churn. We intend to accomplish these goals by
continuing to expand our network coverage, improve our network quality and offer
a broad array of products and services, including exclusive devices such as the
Apple iPhone and free mobile-to-mobile calling among our wireless customers. The
effective management of customer churn is critical to our ability to maximize
revenue growth and to maintain and improve our operating margins. 

U-verse Services   We
are continuing to expand our deployment of U-verse high-speed broadband and TV
services. As of December 31, 2007, we have passed approximately 8 million living
units (constructed housing units as well as platted housing lots) and are
marketing the services to almost 50 percent of those units. Our deployment
strategy is to enter each market on a limited basis in order to ensure that all
operating and back-office systems are functioning successfully and then expand
within each market as we continue to monitor these systems. In these market
expansions, we expect to continue to use contracted outside labor in addition to
our employees as installers; our rate of expansion will be slowed if we cannot
hire and train an adequate number of qualified contractors and technicians to
keep pace with customer demand or if we cannot obtain all required local
building permits in a timely fashion. We also continue to work with our vendors
on improving, in a timely manner, the requisite hardware and software
technology. Our deployment plans could be delayed if we do not receive required
equipment and software on schedule. See our  Liquidity   Capital Resources 
discussion for an update on our U-verse capital spending. 

17 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

We
believe that our U-verse TV service is subject to federal oversight as a  video
service  under the Federal Communications Act. However, some cable providers and
municipalities have claimed that certain IP services should be treated as a
traditional cable service and therefore subject to the applicable state and
local cable regulation. Certain municipalities have refused us permission to use
our existing right-of-ways to deploy or activate our U-verse-related services
and products, resulting in litigation. Pending negotiations and current or
threatened litigation involving municipalities could delay our deployment plans
in those areas. If the courts having jurisdiction where we have significant
deployments of our U-verse services were to decide that federal, state and/or
local cable regulation were applicable to our U-verse services, it could have a
material adverse effect on the cost, timing and extent of our deployment
plans. 

Regulatory
Developments 

Set forth
below is a summary of the most significant developments in our regulatory
environment during 2007. While these issues, for the most part, apply only to
certain subsidiaries in our wireline segment, the words  we,   AT T  and
 our  are used to simplify the discussion. The following discussions are
intended as a condensed summary of the issues rather than as a precise legal
description of all of those specific issues. 

International
Regulation   Our subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are subject
to the jurisdiction of regulatory authorities in the market where service is
provided. Our licensing, compliance and advocacy initiatives in foreign
countries primarily enable the provision of enterprise (i.e., large business)
services. AT T is engaged in multiple efforts with foreign regulators to
open markets to competition, reduce network costs and increase our scope of
fully authorized network services and products. 

Federal
Regulation    A summary of
significant 2007 federal regulatory developments follows. 

Wireless 

       Wireless Broadband Order  In
March 2007, the FCC adopted a declaratory ruling stating that wireless broadband
Internet access services are information services. The FCC s decision thus
places wireless broadband Internet access service on the same
largely-deregulated footing as cable and wireline broadband
services. 

Order on Recommendations of the
Hurricane Katrina Panel  In October 2007, the FCC issued an order revising
its previously adopted rule that was designed to improve the reliability,
interoperability and recovery of telecommunications in future disasters. The
original order required carriers to maintain backup power, for a specified
number of hours, at certain points in the network, such as cell sites and remote
terminals. The FCC revised the backup power rule due to numerous concerns raised
by providers about feasibility of compliance with the original rule. Although
compliance with the new rule will still require substantial effort by AT T,
it gives us additional flexibility to meet our backup power obligations by
gauging compliance with reference to the original design parameters of assets,
exempting assets from the backup power requirements where compliance is
infeasible and permitting us to satisfy our obligations by creating a disaster
recovery plan that relies on portable generators and other backup power
sources. 

E911 Order   In
September 2007, the FCC adopted an order (the E911 Order) that would
substantially increase accuracy requirements in connection with providing the
location of a caller to 911 to dispatchers of emergency services. The E911 Order
will become effective in April 2008. Under FCC rules, carriers are required to
attempt to deliver location data to Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) when
callers dial 911. We use a network-based location solution that employs
triangulation to estimate the location of the caller. Location data for this
network-based solution must be accurate within 300 meters on 95 percent of all
calls and within 100 meters on 67 percent of all calls. The current rules permit
these percentages to be calculated based on all calls, network-wide, for
purposes of measuring location accuracy. The E911 Order would require wireless
carriers to achieve E911 location accuracy measured in each of the local areas
served by the approximately 6,000 PSAPs across the country. Carriers would have
until September 2012 to achieve PSAP-level accuracy, and would have to
demonstrate compliance with certain incremental location accuracy benchmarks in
2008 and 2010. The PSAP-level accuracy requirement in the E911 Order is not
attainable throughout our wireless network using currently available commercial
technology. 

18 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

We are
considering all avenues for review of the E911 Order, including through an
appeal or a petition for reconsideration. Depending on technological
developments, the interpretation of the final order and the resolution of any
appeals, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to
implement and maintain compliance with this order. 

Wireless Universal
Service   Our wireless subsidiary, AT T Mobility, is
currently an Eligible Telecommunications Carrier (ETC) for purposes of receiving
federal universal service support in certain states. To maintain these
designations, the state must certify that the carrier is entitled to receive the
funds for the subsequent calendar year based on federal and applicable state ETC
requirements. We are certified for each relevant state for 2008. In May 2007,
the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service recommended applying a
funding cap to the amount of universal service support received by competitive
ETCs. Moreover, in order to obtain approval for our acquisition of Dobson, we
agreed to a voluntary cap on our receipt of federal universal service high-cost
support. The cap will be set at the amount of wireless universal service support
we received as of June 30, 2007, which was approximately $225. Additionally, the
FCC is considering an order that would adopt the Joint Board s recommendation to
cap all competitive ETC high-cost funding. If the FCC adopts such an order, we
anticipate that our company-specific cap on high-cost support will be replaced
with that industrywide cap. 

Wireline 

       Video Service
Order   In March 2007, the FCC issued an order adopting rules to
implement the Cable Act s prohibition against local franchising authorities
unreasonably refusing to award competitive franchises for the delivery of cable
services, which it found had created unreasonable barriers to entry that impede
the goals of increasing competition and promoting broadband deployment. This
order should facilitate our entry into the video market by reducing or removing
entry barriers posed by municipalities that have refused us permission to use
our existing right-of-ways to deploy or activate our U-verse-related services
and products. This order does not preempt state laws that streamline the
franchising process by, for example, establishing state-wide cable franchises.
Such laws have been enacted in over half of the states in which we
operate. 

Video Program Access
Order   In October 2007, the FCC released an order and Further
Notice of Proposed Rule Making addressing video programming issues. The order
extends for five years the exclusive contract prohibition of the Communications
Act, which bans exclusive contracts for satellite cable programming and
satellite broadcast programming between vertically integrated programming
vendors and cable operators. The order also improves the FCC s program access
complaint procedures by strengthening the discovery rules and requiring
production of information necessary to adjudicate a complaint. 

Special Access   In
January 2005, the FCC commenced a broad examination of the regulatory framework
applicable to interstate special access services provided by price-capped local
exchange carriers. In a July 2007 notice, the FCC invited interested
parties to update the record in that proceeding in light of industry
developments since 2005. If the FCC were to modify this regulatory framework
(such as by mandating further reductions in special access rates), it might
negatively impact our operating results. 

Broadband Forbearance
Order   In October 2007, the FCC adopted an order eliminating
some regulations and certain  Computer Inquiry  rules previously applicable to
optical and packet-switched broadband transmission services provided by our
operating companies. Consequently, our operating companies will no longer be
subject to, among other things, the FCC s tariff filing requirements or price
cap rules for Frame Relay, ATM, Ethernet, Remote Network Access, SONET, Optical
Network or Wave-based broadband services. This order gives us substantial
flexibility to offer individually tailored contractual arrangements that better
meet our customers  needs while enabling us to reduce costs and operate more
efficiently. 

Long-Distance Non-Dominance
Order   In August 2007, the FCC adopted an order granting
regulatory relief to AT T, Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) and Qwest
Communications International Inc. and their independent incumbent local exchange
carrier affiliates (e.g., AT T Connecticut). This relief allows us to
provide interstate long-distance services free from both structural separation
requirements and dominant carrier regulation (e.g., tariffing and price cap
requirements), subject to certain limited conditions. As a result of the FCC s
order, our business units will be able to integrate functions across
organizations and jointly plan business operations more efficiently than
previously possible. We anticipate that this relief will lower our
administrative costs and improve our responsiveness to customers. In addition,
the FCC eliminated the equal access scripting requirement, which had required
AT T s customer service representatives to inform new local telephone
service customers of the availability of long-distance service from other
carriers and to read a list of such carriers to the customer upon
request. 

19 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

State
Regulation   A summary of significant 2007 state regulatory
developments follows. 

Video Service
Legislation   A number of states in which we operate have
adopted legislation or issued clarifying opinions that will make it easier for
telecommunications companies to offer video service. 

California High Cost
Fund   In June 2006, the California Public Utilities Commission
(CPUC) opened a rulemaking to review the California High Cost Fund B (CHCF-B).
The CHCF-B program was established in 1996 and was designed to support universal
service goals by ensuring that basic telephone service remains affordable in
high-cost areas within the service territories of the state s major incumbent
local exchange carriers, such as our AT T subsidiaries. In September 2007,
the CPUC adopted a decision that changed how the CHCF-B was calculated, which we
estimate will reduce our payments from the CHCF-B by approximately $160 in 2008
and $260 in 2009. In the same decision, the CPUC stated that AT T and other
carriers could recover lost payments from the fund by exercising pricing
flexibility to increase rates for services other than the basic residential rate
(such as bundles), authorized an increase in the basic residential rate by the
Consumer Price Index in 2008 and a lifting of the existing rate cap on the basic
residential rate in 2009. In a December 2007 decision in the same proceeding,
the CPUC established a $100 California Advanced Services Fund to encourage the
deployment of broadband facilities to unserved and underserved areas of
California to become effective sometime in 2008. We are unable at this time to
determine the extent to which AT T might be able to qualify for payments
from this fund. 

Competition 

Competition
continues to increase for telecommunications and information services.
Technological advances have expanded the types and uses of services and products
available. In addition, lack of regulation of comparable alternatives (e.g.,
cable, wireless and VoIP providers) has lowered costs for alternative
communications service providers. As a result, we face heightened competition as
well as some new opportunities in significant portions of our
business. 

Wireless 

      We face
substantial and increasing competition in all aspects of the wireless
communications industry. Under current FCC rules, six or more PCS licensees, two
cellular licensees and one or more enhanced specialized mobile radio licensees
may operate in each of our markets, which results in the presence of multiple
competitors. Our competitors are principally three national (Verizon Wireless,
Sprint Nextel Corp. and T-Mobile) and a larger number of regional providers of
cellular, PCS and other wireless communications services. 

We may
experience significant competition from companies that provide similar services
using other communications technologies and services. While some of these
technologies and services are now operational, others are being developed or may
be developed in the future. We compete for customers based principally on price,
service offerings, call quality, coverage area and customer
service. 

We are an
eligible bidder in the FCC 700 MHz spectrum auctions that began in January 2008,
and in 2007, we agreed to purchase additional spectrum licenses covering 196
million people in the 700 MHz frequency band. (See  Wireless Spectrum  discussed
in  Other Business Matters ). The availability of this additional spectrum from
the auctions could increase competition, the effectiveness of existing
competition, or result in new entrants in the wireless arena. 

Wireline 

      Our
wireline subsidiaries expect continued competitive pressure in 2008 from
multiple providers in various markets, including wireless, cable and other VoIP
providers, interexchange carriers and resellers. At this time, we are unable to
quantify the effect of competition on the industry as a whole, or financially on
this segment. However, we expect both losses of market share in local service
and gains resulting from business initiatives, especially in the area of
bundling of products and services, including wireless and video, large-business
data services, broadband and long-distance service. 

In most
markets, we compete with large cable companies, such as Comcast Corporation, Cox
Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Inc., for local, high-speed Internet and
video services customers and other smaller telecommunications companies for both
long-distance and local services customers. Substitution of wireless and
Internet-based services for traditional local service lines also continues to
increase. 

20 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Our
wireline subsidiaries remain subject to regulation by state regulatory
commissions for intrastate services and by the FCC for interstate services. In
contrast, our competitors are often subject to less or no regulation in
providing comparable voice and data services. Under the Telecom Act, companies
seeking to interconnect to our wireline subsidiaries  networks and exchange
local calls enter into interconnection agreements with us. Any unresolved issues
in negotiating those agreements are subject to arbitration before the
appropriate state commission. These agreements (whether fully agreed-upon or
arbitrated) are then subject to review and approval by the appropriate state
commission. 

Recently,
in a number of the states in which we operate as an ILEC, state legislatures or
the state public utility commissions have concluded that the voice
telecommunications market is competitive and have allowed for greater pricing
flexibility for non-basic residential retail services, including bundles,
promotions and new products and services. While it has been a number of years
since we have been allowed to raise rates in certain states, some of these state
actions have been challenged by certain parties and are pending court
review. 

In
addition to these wholesale rate and service regulations noted above, our
wireline subsidiaries (excluding rural carrier affiliates) operate under
state-specific elective  price-cap regulation  for retail services (also
referred to as  alternative regulation ) that was either legislatively enacted
or authorized by the appropriate state regulatory commission. Under price-cap
regulation, price caps are set for regulated services and are not tied to the
cost of providing the services or to rate-of-return requirements. Price-cap
rates may be subject to or eligible for annual decreases or increases and also
may be eligible for deregulation or greater pricing flexibility if the
associated service is deemed competitive under some state regulatory commission
rules. Minimum customer service standards may also be imposed and payments
required if we fail to meet the standards. 

We
continue to lose access lines due to competitors (e.g., wireless, cable and VoIP
providers) who can provide comparable services at lower prices because they are
not subject to traditional telephone industry regulation and subsequently have
lower cost structures. In response to these competitive pressures, for several
years we have utilized a bundling strategy that rewards customers who
consolidate their services (e.g., local and long-distance telephone, DSL,
wireless and video) with us. We continue to focus on bundling wireline and
wireless services, including combined packages of minutes and video service
through our AT T U-verse service and our relationships with satellite
television providers. We will continue to develop innovative products that
capitalize on our expanding fiber network. 

Additionally,
we provide local, domestic intrastate and interstate, international wholesale
networking capacity and switched services to other service providers, primarily
large Internet Service Providers using the largest class of nationwide Internet
networks (Internet backbone), wireless carriers, CLECs, regional phone ILECs,
cable companies and systems integrators. These services are subject to
additional competitive pressures from the development of new technologies and
the increased availability of domestic and international transmission capacity.
The introduction of new products and service offerings and increasing satellite,
wireless, fiber-optic and cable transmission capacity for services similar to
those provided by us continues to provide competitive pressures. We face a
number of international competitors, including Equant, British Telecom and
SingTel; as well as competition from a number of large systems integrators, such
as Electronic Data Systems. 

Advertising
  Publishing 

      Our
advertising   publishing subsidiaries face competition from approximately
100 publishers of printed directories in their operating areas. Direct and
indirect competition also exists from other advertising media, including
newspapers, radio, television and direct-mail providers, as well as from
directories offered over the Internet. We actively compete on the Internet
through our wholly-owned subsidiary, YPC. 

Accounting
Policies and Standards 

Significant Accounting Policies and
Estimates   Because of the size of the financial statement line
items they relate to, some of our accounting policies and estimates have a more
significant impact on our financial statements than others. The policies below
are presented in the order in which the topics appear in our consolidated
statements of income. 

Allowance for
Uncollectibles   We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts
for estimated losses that result from the failure of our customers to make
required payments. When determining the allowance, we consider the probability
of recoverability based on past experience, taking into account current
collection trends; as well as general economic factors, including bankruptcy
rates. Credit risks are assessed based on historical write-offs, net of
recoveries, and an analysis of the aged accounts receivable balances with
reserves generally increasing as the receivable ages. Accounts receivable may be
fully reserved for when specific collection issues are known to exist, such as
pending bankruptcy or catastrophes. The analysis of receivables is performed
monthly and the bad-debt allowances are adjusted accordingly. A 10% change in
the amounts estimated to be uncollectible would result in a change in
uncollectible expense of approximately $140. 

21 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Pension and Postretirement
Benefits   Our actuarial estimates of retiree benefit expense
and the associated significant weighted-average assumptions are discussed in
Note 11. One of the most significant of these assumptions is the return on
assets assumption, which was 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2007. This
assumption will remain unchanged for 2008. If all other factors were to remain
unchanged, we expect that a 1% decrease in the expected long-term rate of return
would cause 2008 combined pension and postretirement cost to increase $814 over
2007. The 10-year return on our pension plan assets was 9.18% through 2007.
Under GAAP, the expected long-term rate of return is calculated on the
market-related value of assets (MRVA). GAAP requires that actual gains and
losses on pension and postretirement plan assets be recognized in the MRVA
equally over a period of up to five years. We use a methodology, allowed under
GAAP, under which we hold the MRVA to within 20% of the actual fair value of
plan assets, which can have the effect of accelerating the recognition of excess
actual gains and losses into the MRVA in less than five years. This methodology
did not have a significant additional effect on our 2007, 2006 or 2005 combined
net pension and postretirement costs. Note 11 also discusses the effects of
certain changes in assumptions related to medical trend rates on retiree health
care costs. 

Depreciation   Our
depreciation of assets, including use of composite group depreciation and
estimates of useful lives, is described in Notes 1 and 5. We assign useful lives
based on periodic studies of actual asset lives. Changes in those lives with
significant impact on the financial statements must be disclosed, but no such
changes have occurred in the three years ended December 31, 2007. However, if
all other factors were to remain unchanged, we expect that a one-year increase
in the useful lives of the largest categories of our plant in service (which
accounts for more than three-fourths of our total plant in service) would result
in a decrease of between approximately $1,810 and $1,860 in our 2008
depreciation expense and that a one-year decrease would result in an increase of
between $2,230 and $2,330 in our 2008 depreciation expense. 

Asset Valuations and
Impairments   We account for acquisitions using the purchase
method as required by FAS 141. Under FAS 141, we allocate the purchase price to
the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair
values. The estimated fair values of intangible assets acquired are based on the
expected discounted cash flows of the identified customer relationships,
patents, tradenames and licenses. In determining the future cash flows we
consider demand, competition and other economic factors. 

Customer
relationships, which are finite-lived intangible assets, are primarily amortized
using the sum-of-the-months-digits method of amortization over the period in
which those relationships are expected to contribute to our future cash flows.
The sum-of-the-months-digits method is a process of allocation, not of
valuation, and reflects our belief that we expect greater revenue generation
from these customer relationships during the earlier years of their lives.
Alternatively, we could have chosen to amortize customer relationships using the
straight-line method, which would allocate the cost equally over the
amortization period. Amortization of other intangibles, including patents and
amortizable tradenames, is determined using the straight-line method of
amortization over the expected remaining useful lives. We do not amortize
indefinite-lived intangibles, such as wireless FCC licenses or certain
tradenames. (See Note 6) 

Goodwill
is not amortized but is tested for impairment in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
(FAS 142). We review goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles and other long-lived
assets for impairment under FAS 142 or Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets  either annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount may not be recoverable over the remaining life of the asset or
asset group. In order to determine that the asset is recoverable, we verify that
the expected future cash flows directly related to that asset exceed its fair
value, which is based on the undiscounted cash flows. The discounted cash flow
calculation uses various assumptions and estimates regarding future revenue,
expense and cash flows projections over the estimated remaining useful life of
the asset. 

22 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Cost
investments are evaluated to determine whether mark-to-market declines are
temporary and reflected in other comprehensive income, or other than temporary
and recorded as an expense in the income statement. This evaluation is based on
the length of time and the severity of decline in the investment s
value. 

Income Taxes   Our
estimates of income taxes and the significant items giving rise to the deferred
assets and liabilities are shown in Note 10 and reflect our assessment of actual
future taxes to be paid on items reflected in the financial statements, giving
consideration to both timing and probability of these estimates. Actual income
taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law or
results from the final review of our tax returns by federal, state or foreign
tax authorities. We have considered these potential changes and, for years prior
to 2007, have provided amounts within our deferred tax assets and liabilities
that reflect our judgment of the probable outcome of tax contingencies (see Note
10). In 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No.
48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48) and began accounting
for uncertain tax positions under the provisions of FIN 48 (see Note 1). As
required by FIN 48, we use our judgment to determine whether it is more likely
than not that we will sustain positions that we have taken on tax returns and,
if so, the amount of benefit to initially recognize within our financial
statements. We regularly review our uncertain tax positions and adjust our
unrecognized tax benefits in light of changes in facts and circumstances, such
as changes in tax law, interactions with taxing authorities and developments in
case law. These adjustments to our unrecognized tax benefits may affect our
income tax expense. Settlement of uncertain tax positions may require use of our
cash. 

New
Accounting Standards 

FAS 141(R)  In December 2007,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (FAS
141(R)). FAS 141(R) is a revision of FAS 141 and requires that costs incurred to
effect the acquisition (i.e., acquisition-related costs) be recognized
separately from the acquisition. In addition, in accordance with FAS 141,
restructuring costs that the acquirer expected but was not obligated to incur,
which included changes to benefit plans, were recognized as if they were a
liability assumed at the acquisition date. FAS 141(R) requires the acquirer to
recognize those costs separately from the business combination. We are currently
evaluating the impact that FAS 141(R) has on our accounting for acquisitions
prior to the effective date of the first fiscal year beginning after December
15, 2008. 

FAS 159   In February
2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The
Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  (FAS 159). FAS
159 permits companies to choose to measure many financial instruments and
certain other items at fair value, thereby providing the opportunity to mitigate
volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and
liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting
provisions. FAS 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007. We elected not to adopt the fair value option for valuation of those
assets and liabilities which are eligible, therefore there is no impact on our
financial position and results of operations. 

FAS 160   In December
2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160,
 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of
ARB No. 51  (FAS 160). FAS 160 requires noncontrolling interests held by parties
other than the parent in subsidiaries be clearly identified, labeled, and
presented in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, but
separate from the parent s equity. FAS 160 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact FAS
160 will have on our financial position and results of operations. 

EITF 06-4     In March 2007, the
Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) ratified the consensus on EITF 06-4,
 Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects of
Endorsement Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements  (EITF 06-4). EITF 06-4
covers endorsement split-dollar life insurance arrangements (where the company
owns and controls the policy) and provides that an employer should recognize a
liability for future benefits in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106,  Employers  Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions.  EITF 06-4 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2007. We are currently evaluating the impact EITF 06-4 will have on
our financial position and results of operations. 

EITF 06-11   In June
2007, the EITF ratified the consensus on EITF 06-11,  Accounting for Income Tax
Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards  (EITF 06-11). EITF 06-11
provides that a realized income tax benefit from dividends or dividend
equivalents that are charged to retained earnings and are paid to employees for
nonvested equity-classified share-based awards and equity-classified outstanding
share options should be recognized as an increase to additional paid-in capital
rather than a reduction of income tax expense. EITF 06-11 applies prospectively
to the income tax benefits that result from dividends on equity-classified
employee share-based payment awards that are declared in fiscal periods
beginning after December 15, 2007. EITF 06-11 will not have a material impact on
our financial position and results of operations. 

23 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Other
Business Matters 

Spectrum
Licenses   In October 2007, we agreed to purchase spectrum
licenses covering 196 million people in the 700 MHz frequency band from Aloha
Partners, L.P. for $2,500. The spectrum covers many major metropolitan areas,
including 72 of the top 100 and all of the top 10 markets in the U.S. We closed
this transaction in February 2008. Additionally, we are an eligible bidder in
the FCC wireless spectrum auctions which began in January 2008. 

Spectrum Sale   In
February 2007, we agreed to sell to Clearwire Corporation (Clearwire), a
national provider of wireless broadband Internet access, education broadband
service spectrum and broadband radio service spectrum valued at $300. The
transaction received the necessary regulatory approvals and closed in May 2007.
Sale of this spectrum was required as a condition to the approval of our
acquisition of BellSouth. 

Antitrust Litigation  In 2002,
two consumer class-action antitrust cases were filed in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York (District Court) against
SBC Communications Inc., Verizon, BellSouth and Qwest Communications
International Inc. alleging that they have violated federal and state antitrust
laws by agreeing not to compete with one another and acting together to impede
competition for local telephone services  (Twombly v. Bell Atlantic
Corp., et al. ). In October 2003, the District Court granted the joint
defendants  motion to dismiss and the plaintiffs appealed. In October 2005, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit Court (Second Circuit)
reversed the District Court, thereby allowing the cases to proceed. In June
2006, the Supreme Court of the United States (Supreme Court) announced its
decision to review the case. In May 2007, the Supreme Court reversed the Second
Circuit s decision and remanded the case to the Second Circuit for further
proceedings consistent with its opinion; we are awaiting formal dismissal of the
case. 

Retiree Phone Concession
Litigation   In May 2005, we were served with a purported class
action in U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas ( Stoffels v. SBC
Communications Inc. ), in which the plaintiffs, who are retirees of
Pacific Bell Telephone Company, Southwestern Bell, and Ameritech, contend that
the telephone concession provided by the company is, in essence, a  defined
benefit plan  within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended (ERISA). On October 3, 2006, the Court certified two
classes. The issue of whether the concession is an ERISA pension plan was tried
before the judge the week of November 26, 2007. The court has rendered no
decision. We believe that an adverse outcome having a material effect on our
financial statements in this case is unlikely, but will continue to evaluate the
potential impact of this suit on our financial results as it
progresses. 

NSA
Litigation   There are 24 pending lawsuits that allege that we
and other telecommunications carriers unlawfully provided assistance to the
National Security Agency (NSA) in connection with intelligence activities that
were initiated following the events of September 11, 2001. In the first filed
case,  Hepting et al v.
AT T Corp., AT T Inc. and Does 1-20 , a purported class action
filed in U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California, plaintiffs
allege that the defendants have disclosed and are currently disclosing to the
U.S. Government content and call records concerning communications to which
Plaintiffs were a party. Plaintiffs seek damages, a declaratory judgment, and
injunctive relief for violations of the First and Fourth Amendments to the
United States Constitution, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, the
Electronic Communications Privacy Act, and other federal and California
statutes. We filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. The United States asserted
the  state secrets privilege  and related statutory privileges and also filed a
motion asking the court to either dismiss the complaint or issue a summary
judgment in favor of the defendants. The Court denied the Motions to Dismiss of
both parties. Specifically, the Court ruled that the state secrets privilege
does not prevent AT T from asserting any statutory defense it may have, as
appropriate, regarding allegations that it assisted the government in monitoring
communication content. However, with regard to the calling records allegations,
the Court noted that it would not require AT T to disclose what
relationship, if any, it has with the government. We and the U.S. government
filed interlocutory appeals in July 2006. The case was argued before a panel of
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on August 15, 2007. We are
awaiting a decision. Management believes these actions are without merit and
intends to vigorously defend these matters. 

Prepaid Calling Card Patent
Litigation  On September 14, 2007, a jury in Texas found that ATTC
willfully infringed two patents owned by TGIP Inc. (TGIP) relating to
point-of-sale prepaid cards sold by ATTC and awarded TGIP $156 in damages.
( TGIP Inc. v. AT T
Corp. et al. , U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas). The
jury s finding of willfulness also entitled TGIP to ask the judge to award
additional damages up to treble the jury verdict. On September 28, 2007,
AT T filed a motion requesting that the Court overturn the jury s verdict as
a matter of law. On October 29, 2007, the Court overturned the jury s finding of
infringement, the jury s $156 award of damages and the jury s finding of
willfulness. TGIP has appealed the Court's decision and oral argument on their
appeal is likely to be held later in the third quarter of 2008. 

24 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Broadcom Patent
Dispute   A number of our handsets, as well as those provided by
other wireless carriers, are subject to a patent dispute at the U.S.
International Trade Commission (ITC) between Broadcom Corporation and Qualcomm
Incorporated (Qualcomm). Currently, the U.S. ITC s exclusion order applicable to
certain Qualcomm technology is stayed pending a decision by the appeals court.
We anticipate a decision will not occur before late in the second quarter of
2008. We continue to take steps to mitigate the effects on us. However, if no
resolution were to occur, future costs and availability of handsets using
Qualcomm chips could be adversely affected. 

Liquidity
and Capital Resources 

We had
$1,970 in cash and cash equivalents available at December 31, 2007. Cash and
cash equivalents included cash of $889 and money market funds and other cash
equivalents of $1,081. Cash and cash equivalents decreased $448 since December
31, 2006. During 2007, cash inflow was primarily provided by cash receipts from
operations, the issuance of long-term debt, net cash received from dispositions
of non-strategic real estate and the sale of marketable securities and other
assets. These inflows were offset by cash used to meet the needs of the business
including, but not limited to, payment of operating expenses, funding capital
expenditures, repurchase of common shares, the repayment of debt, dividends to
stockholders and payment of interest on debt. We discuss many of these factors
in detail below. 

Cash
Provided by or Used in Operating Activities 

      During
2007, cash provided by operating activities was $34,072 compared to $15,615 in
2006. Operating cash flows increased primarily due to an increase in operating
income reflecting additional cash provided by the BellSouth acquisition and our
success in achieving merger synergies and operational efficiencies, partially
offset by increased interest payments of approximately $1,800 and tax payments
of $1,200. During 2007, tax payments were higher due primarily to a $1,000
deposit related to the IRS examination of our 2000   2002 income tax returns.
The timing of cash payments for income taxes, which is governed by the IRS and
other taxing jurisdictions, will differ from the timing of recording tax expense
and deferred income taxes, which are reported in accordance with
GAAP. 

During
2006, our primary source of funds was cash from operating activities of $15,615
compared to $12,974 in 2005. Operating cash flows increased primarily due to an
increase in net income of more than $2,500 and additional cash provided by the
ATTC acquisition, partially offset by increased tax payments of $739 in 2006.
Tax payments were higher primarily due to increased income before income taxes.
Tax payments in 2006, include a refund from the completion of the ATTC federal
income tax audit covering 1997   2001. 

Cash
Used in or Provided by Investing Activities 

      During
2007, cash used in investing activities consisted of: 

$2,200,
      net of cash acquired, related to the acquisition of Dobson, a provider of
      rural and suburban wireless communications
  services. 

$579
      for investments in debt and equity
securities. 

$316
      related to the acquisition of Ingenio, a provider of Pay Per Call search
      and directory solutions, and Interwise, a provider of voice, Web and video
      conferencing services. 

$190
      to satisfy an obligation to Alaska Native Wireless, LLC to acquire
      wireless spectrum and the acquisition of an additional ownership interest
      in Cellular Communications of Puerto Rico.  

$136
      related to the acquisition of wireless and media rights, intellectual
      property and other strategic
assets. 

In
October 2007, we agreed to purchase spectrum licenses in the 700 MHz frequency
band from Aloha Partners, L.P. for approximately $2,500. We closed this
transaction in February 2008. Additionally, we are an eligible bidder in the FCC
wireless spectrum auctions which began in January 2008. 

25 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Net cash
provided by investing activities for 2007 was $2,663 and consisted of net
proceeds of $1,594 from dispositions of non-strategic assets, $1,033 from the
sale of marketable and equity securities and $36 related to other activities.
Proceeds from dispositions included the following: 

$1,137
      from the sale of properties and other non-strategic
  assets. 

$301
      from the sale of spectrum to Clearwire Corporation, which includes
      interest. 

$156
      related to T-Mobile s exercise of its option to purchase an additional 10
      MHz of spectrum in the San Diego market, the sale of cost investments and
      the sale of wireless towers. 

To
provide high-quality communications services to our customers, we must make
significant investments in property, plant and equipment. The amount of capital
investment is influenced by demand for services and products, continued growth
and regulatory considerations. Capital expenditures in the wireline segment,
which represented approximately 77% of our capital expenditures, increased 68%
in 2007, reflecting the acquisition of BellSouth. Our capital expenditures are
primarily for our wireline subsidiaries  networks, our U-verse services,
merger-integration projects and support systems for our long-distance service.
Because of opportunities made available by the continued changing regulatory
environment and our acquisitions of ATTC and BellSouth, we expect that our
capital expenditures for 2008, which include wireless network expansion and
U-verse services, will be in the midteens as a percentage of consolidated
revenue. We expect to fund 2008 capital expenditures for our wireline and
wireless segments, including international operations, using cash from
operations and incremental borrowings depending on interest rate levels and
overall market conditions. 

During
2007, we spent $3,745 in the wireless segment primarily for Universal Mobile
Telecommunications System/High-Speed Packet Access (UMTS/HSPA) network
expansion, GSM/EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution) network capacity
expansion and upgrades, as well as for IT and other support systems for our
wireless service. The network capacity requirements and expansion of our
UMTS/HSPA wireless networks will continue to require substantial amounts of
capital through 2008. In 2008, our wireless capital expenditures should be in
the lower double-digit range as a percent of our wireless revenues for the
integration and expansion of our networks and the installation of UMTS/HSPA
technology in a number of markets. 

We spent
approximately $2,500 on our U-verse services in 2007 and expect spending to be
approximately $2,500 in 2008 for capital expenditures on our U-verse services
for initial network-related deployment costs. We expect to pass approximately 30
million living units by the end of 2010. Additional customer activation capital
expenditures are not included in this capital spending forecast. We expect that
the business opportunities made available, specifically in the data/broadband
area, will allow us to expand our products and services (see  U-verse Services 
discussed in  Expected Growth Areas ). 

The other
segment capital expenditures were less than 1.5% of total capital expenditures
for 2007. Included in the other segment are equity investments, which should be
self-funding as they are not direct AT T operations; as well as corporate,
diversified business and Sterling operations, which we expect to fund using cash
from operations. We expect to fund any advertising   publishing segment
capital expenditures using cash from operations. 

Cash
Used in or Provided by Financing Activities 

      We plan
to fund our 2008 financing activities through a combination of debt issuances
and cash from operations. Our financing activities include funding share
repurchases and the repayment of debt. We will continue to examine opportunities
to fund our activities by issuing debt at favorable rates and with cash from the
disposition of certain other non-strategic investments. 

On March
4, 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 400 million
shares of AT T common stock. During 2007, we repurchased 267 million shares
at a cost of $10,390. Share repurchases under this plan totaled approximately
351 million shares at a cost of $13,068. On December 10, 2007, our Board of
Directors authorized a new share repurchase plan of 400 million shares, which
replaces our previous share repurchase authorization. This new authorization
represents approximately 6.6 percent of AT T's shares outstanding at
December 31, 2007 and expires at the end of 2009. We have repurchased, and
intend to continue to repurchase, a portion of the shares pursuant to plans that
comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. We will fund our additional share repurchases through a combination of
cash from operations, borrowings dependent upon market conditions, and cash from
the disposition of certain non-strategic investments. 

26 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

We paid
dividends of $8,743 in 2007, $5,153 in 2006 and $4,256 in 2005, reflecting the
issuance of additional shares for the BellSouth and ATTC acquisitions and
dividend increases. In December 2007, our Board of Directors approved a 12.7%
increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.355 to $0.40 per share. This increase
recognizes our strong growth and positive outlook and follows a 6.8% dividend
increase approved by AT T's Board in December 2006. Dividends declared by
our Board of Directors totaled $1.465 per share in 2007, $1.35 per share in 2006
and $1.30 per share in 2005. Our dividend policy considers both the expectations
and requirements of stockholders, internal requirements of AT T and
long-term growth opportunities. It is our intent to provide the financial
flexibility to allow our Board of Directors to consider dividend growth and to
recommend an increase in dividends to be paid in future periods. All dividends
remain subject to approval by our Board of Directors. 

At
December 31, 2007, we had $6,860 of debt maturing within one year, which
included $4,939 of long-term debt maturities and $1,921 of commercial paper
borrowings and other borrowings. All of our commercial paper borrowings are due
within 90 days. We continue to examine our mix of short- and long-term debt in
light of interest rate trends. 

During
2007, we received net proceeds of $11,367 from the issuance of $11,499 in
long-term debt. Debt proceeds were used for general corporate purposes and parts
of the proceeds were used for repurchases of our common stock. Long-term debt
issuances consisted of: 

In
February 2008, we received net proceeds of $3,972 from the issuance of $4,000 in
long-term debt. The long-term debt issued consisted of the
following: 

Beginning
in May 2009, the $500 zero-coupon puttable note may be presented for redemption
by the holder at specified dates but not more frequently than annually,
excluding 2011. If the note is held to maturity in 2022, the redemption amount
will be $1,030. 

We
entered into fixed-to-fixed cross-currency swaps on our two
foreign-currency-denominated debt instruments to hedge our exposure to changes
in foreign currency exchange rates. These hedges also include interest rate
swaps of a fixed foreign-denominated rate to a fixed U.S.-denominated interest
rate, which results in a U.S.-denominated rate of 5.31% on our Euro-denominated
notes and 5.97% on our British pound sterling-denominated notes. 

During
2007, debt repayments totaled $10,183 and consisted of: 

$3,871
      related to debt repayments with a weighted-average interest rate of 6.1%,
      which included the early redemption of debt related to a put exercise on
      $1,000 of our 4.2% Puttable Reset Securities and called debt of $500 with
      an interest rate of 7.0%. 

$3,411
      related to repayments of commercial paper and other short-term bank
      borrowings. 

$1,735
      related to the early redemption of Dobson debt acquired with a par value
      of $1,599 and a weighted-average interest rate of
  9.1%. 

$904
      related to the early repayment of a Dobson long-term credit
      facility. 

$218
      related to the early redemption of a convertible note held by
      Dobson. 

$44
      related to scheduled principal payments on other debt and repayments of
      other borrowings. 

27 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

                Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

We have a
five-year $10,000 credit agreement with a syndicate of investment and commercial
banks, which we have the right to increase up to an additional $2,000, provided
no event of default under the credit agreement has occurred. The current
agreement will expire in July 2011. We also have the right to terminate, in
whole or in part, amounts committed by the lenders under this agreement in
excess of any outstanding advances; however, any such terminated commitments may
not be reinstated. Advances under this agreement may be used for general
corporate purposes, including support of commercial paper borrowings and other
short-term borrowings. There is no material adverse change provision governing
the   drawdown
of advances under this credit agreement. This agreement contains a negative
pledge covenant, which requires that, if at any time we or a subsidiary pledge
assets or otherwise permits a lien on its properties, advances under this
agreement will be ratably secured, subject to specified exceptions. We must
maintain a debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation
and amortization, and other modifications described in the agreement) financial
ratio covenant of not more than three-to-one as of the last day of each fiscal
quarter for the four quarters then ended. We comply with all covenants under the
agreement. At December 31, 2007, we had no borrowings outstanding under this
agreement. (See Note 8) 

During
2007, proceeds of $1,986 from the issuance of treasury shares were related to
the exercise of stock-based compensation. 

During
2007, we paid $190 to minority interest holders and $47 to terminate interest
rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $1,800 acquired as a result of our
acquisition of BellSouth. 

Other 

      Our total
capital consists of debt (long-term debt and debt maturing within one year) and
stockholders  equity. Our capital structure does not include debt issued by our
international equity investees. Our debt ratio was 35.7%, 34.1% and 35.9% at
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The debt ratio is affected by the same factors
that affect total capital. Total capital increased $4,146 in 2007 compared to
more than $90,000 in 2006. The 2007 total capital increase was due to an
increase in debt of $4,319 related to our financing activities. Our
stockholders  equity balance was down $173 and included our increase in net
income and current adjustments for unrealized pension and postretirement gains,
which were more than offset by our increased share repurchase activity and
dividend distributions. 

The
primary factor contributing to the decline in our 2006 debt ratio was the
acquisition of BellSouth, which increased our stockholders  equity approximately
105% and our total long-term debt by 96%. The 2006 total capital increase was
primarily due to the purchase of BellSouth (see Note 2). For 2006, our common
stock outstanding and capital in excess of par value increased by $60,850 and
our current and long-term debt increased by $29,226. The increase in total debt
was primarily due to acquired debt from BellSouth and AT T Mobility of
$28,321, an increase in commercial paper and other short-term borrowings of
$3,649 and debt issuances of $1,500, partially offset by long-term debt
repayments of $4,242 during 2006. Stockholders  equity also increased due to our
net income and was partially offset by dividend payments and our repurchases of
common shares through our stock repurchase program. 

Contractual
Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies 

Current
accounting standards require us to disclose our material obligations and
commitments to making future payments under contracts, such as debt and lease
agreements, and under contingent commitments, such as debt guarantees. We
occasionally enter into third-party debt guarantees, but they are not, nor are
they reasonably likely to become, material. We disclose our contractual
long-term debt repayment obligations in Note 8 and our operating lease payments
in Note 5. Our contractual obligations do not include expected pension and
postretirement payments as we maintain pension funds and Voluntary Employee
Beneficiary Association trusts to fully or partially fund these benefits (see
Note 11). In the ordinary course of business we routinely enter into commercial
commitments for various aspects of our operations, such as plant additions and
office supplies. However, we do not believe that the commitments will have a
material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows. 

Our
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007, are in the following table. The
purchase obligations that follow are those for which we have guaranteed funds
and will be funded with cash provided by operations or through incremental
borrowings. The minimum commitment for certain obligations is based on
termination penalties that could be paid to exit the contract. Since termination
penalties would not be paid every year, such penalties are excluded from the
table. Other long-term liabilities were included in the table based on the year
of required payment or an estimate of the year of payment. Such estimate of
payment is based on a review of past trends for these items, as well as a
forecast of future activities. Certain items were excluded from the following
table as the year of payment is unknown and could not be reliably estimated
since past trends were not deemed to be an indicator of future
payment. 

28 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Substantially
all of our purchase obligations are in our wireline and wireless segments. The
table does not include the fair value of our interest rate swaps. Our capital
lease obligations have been excluded from the table due to the immaterial value
at December 31, 2007. Many of our other noncurrent liabilities have been
excluded from the following table due to the uncertainty of the timing of
payments, combined with the absence of historical trending to be used as a
predictor of such payments. Additionally, certain other long-term liabilities
have been excluded since settlement of such liabilities will not require the use
of cash. However, we have included in the following table obligations which
primarily relate to benefit funding and severance due to the certainty of the
timing of these future payments. Our other long-term liabilities are: deferred
income taxes (see Note 10) of $24,939; postemployment benefit obligations (see
Note 11) of $24,011; and other noncurrent liabilities of $14,648, which included
deferred lease revenue from our agreement with American Tower of $539 (see Note
5). 

1   

The
      impact of premiums/discounts and derivative instruments included in debt
      amounts on the balance sheet are excluded from the
  table. 

2   

The
      non-current portion of the unrecognized tax benefits is included in the
       More than 5 Years  column as we cannot reasonably estimate the timing or
      amounts of additional cash payments, if any, at this time. See Note 10 for
      additional information. 

3   

We
      have contractual obligations to utilize network facilities from local
      exchange carriers with terms greater than one year. Since the contracts
      have no minimum volume requirements and are based on an interrelationship
      of volumes and discounted rates, we assessed our minimum commitment based
      on penalties to exit the contracts, assuming that we had exited the
      contracts on December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007, the penalties we
      would have incurred to exit all of these contracts would have been $703.
      These termination fees could be $374 in 2008, $132 in the aggregate for
      2009 and 2010 and $4 for 2011, assuming that all contracts are exited.
      These termination fees are excluded from the above table as the fees would
      not be paid every year and the timing of such payments, if any, is
      uncertain. 

4   

We
      calculated the minimum obligation for certain agreements to purchase goods
      or services based on termination fees that can be paid to exit the
      contract. If we elect to exit these contracts, termination fees for all
      such contracts in the year of termination could be approximately $642 in
      2008, $720 in the aggregate for 2009 and 2010, $257 in the aggregate for
      2011 and 2012 and $137 in the aggregate, thereafter. Certain termination
      fees are excluded from the above table as the fees would not be paid every
      year and the timing of such payments, if any, is
  uncertain. 

5   

Other
      long-term obligations include commitments with local exchange carriers for
      dedicated leased lines. 

Market
Risk 

We are
exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. In managing exposure to these fluctuations, we may
engage in various hedging transactions that have been authorized according to
documented policies and procedures. On a limited basis, we use certain
derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency exchange contracts
and combined interest rate foreign currency contracts, to manage these risks. We
do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in
speculative activity. Our capital costs are directly linked to financial and
business risks. We seek to manage the potential negative effects from market
volatility and market risk. The majority of our financial instruments are
medium- and long-term fixed rate notes and debentures. Fluctuations in market
interest rates can lead to significant fluctuations in the fair value of these
notes and debentures. It is our policy to manage our debt structure and foreign
exchange exposure in order to manage capital costs, control financial risks and
maintain financial flexibility over the long term. Where appropriate, we will
take actions to limit the negative effect of interest and foreign exchange
rates, liquidity and counterparty risks on stockholder value. 

29 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

                Dollars
in millions except per share
amounts 

We enter
into foreign currency contracts to minimize our exposure to risk of adverse
changes in currency exchange rates. We are subject to foreign exchange risk for
foreign currency-denominated transactions, such as debt issued, recognized
payables and receivables and forecasted transactions. At December 31, 2007, our
foreign currency exposures were principally Euros, British pound sterling,
Danish krone and Japanese yen. 

Quantitative
Information About Market Risk 

In order
to determine the changes in fair value of our various financial instruments, we
use certain financial modeling techniques. We apply rate-sensitivity changes
directly to our interest rate swap transactions and forward rate sensitivity to
our foreign currency-forward contracts. 

The
changes in fair value, as discussed below, assume the occurrence of certain
market conditions, which could have an adverse financial impact on AT T and
do not represent projected gains or losses in fair value that we expect to
incur. Future impacts would be based on actual developments in global financial
markets. We do not foresee any significant changes in the strategies used to
manage interest rate risk, foreign currency rate risk or equity price risk in
the near future. 

Interest Rate
Sensitivity   The principal amounts by expected maturity,
average interest rate and fair value of our liabilities that are exposed to
interest rate risk are described in Notes 8 and 9. Following are our interest
rate derivatives, subject to interest rate risk as of December 31, 2007. The
interest rates illustrated in the interest rate swaps section of the table below
refer to the average expected rates we would receive and the average expected
rates we would pay based on the contracts. The notional amount is the principal
amount of the debt subject to the interest rate swap contracts. The net fair
value asset (liability) represents the amount we would receive or pay if we had
exited the contracts as of December 31, 2007. 

1   

Interest
      payable based on current and implied forward rates for Three or Six Month
      LIBOR plus a spread ranging between approximately 64 and 170 basis
      points. 

We had
fair value interest rate swaps with a notional value of $3,250 at December 31,
2007, and $5,050 at December 31, 2006, with a net carrying and fair value asset
of $88 and liability of $80, respectively. The net fair value liability at
December 31, 2006, was comprised of a liability of $86 and an asset of
$6. Included in the fair value interest rate swap notional amount for 2006 were
interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1,800, which were acquired as a
result of our acquisition of BellSouth on December 29, 2006. These swaps were
unwound in January 2007. 

Foreign Exchange Forward
Contracts   The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is
subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. For the purpose of
assessing specific risks, we use a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects
that market risk exposures may have on the fair value of our financial
instruments and results of operations. To perform the sensitivity analysis, we
assess the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of a hypothetical 10%
change in the value of foreign currencies (negative change in the value of the
U.S. dollar), assuming no change in interest rates. See Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to
notional amounts and fair values of financial instruments. 

30 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

For
foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at December   31, 2007, assuming a
hypothetical 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies from
the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates, the fair value of the foreign
exchange forward contracts (net liability) would have decreased approximately
$29. Because our foreign exchange contracts are entered into for hedging
purposes, we believe that these losses would be largely offset by gains on the
underlying transactions. 

The risk
of loss in fair values of all other financial instruments resulting from a
hypothetical 10% change in market prices was not significant as of December   31, 2007. 

Qualitative
Information About Market Risk 

Foreign Exchange
Risk   From time to time, we make investments in businesses in
foreign countries, are paid dividends and receive proceeds from sales or borrow
funds in foreign currency. Before making an investment, or in anticipation of a
foreign currency receipt, we often will enter into forward foreign exchange
contracts. The contracts are used to provide currency at a fixed rate. Our
policy is to measure the risk of adverse currency fluctuations by calculating
the potential dollar losses resulting from changes in exchange rates that have a
reasonable probability of occurring. We cover the exposure that results from
changes that exceed acceptable amounts. We do not speculate in foreign exchange
markets. 

Interest Rate
Risk   We issue debt in fixed and floating rate instruments.
Interest rate swaps are used for the purpose of controlling interest expense by
managing the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. Interest rate forward
contracts are utilized to hedge interest expense related to debt financing. We
do not seek to make a profit from changes in interest rates. We manage interest
rate sensitivity by measuring potential increases in interest expense that would
result from a probable change in interest rates. When the potential increase in
interest expense exceeds an acceptable amount, we reduce risk through the
issuance of fixed-rate (in lieu of variable-rate) instruments and the purchase
of derivatives. 

Issuer
Equity Repurchases 

On March
4, 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 400 million
shares of AT T common stock. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we
repurchased 37 million shares at a cost of $1,478. Share repurchases under this
plan totaled approximately 351 million shares at a cost of $13,068. On December
10, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase plan of 400
million shares, which replaces our previous share repurchase authorization. This
new authorization represents approximately 6.6% of AT T's shares outstanding
at December 31, 2007 and expires at the end of 2009. We have repurchased, and
intend to continue to repurchase, a portion of the shares pursuant to plans that
comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. We will fund our share repurchases through a combination of cash from
operations, borrowings dependent upon market conditions, and cash from the
disposition of certain non-strategic investments. 

1     Average
Price Paid per Share excludes transaction costs. 

        2  
 Replaced by new authorization on December 10, 2007. 

31 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Stock
Performance Graph 

The
comparison above assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2002, in AT T
common stock, Standard   Poor s 500 Index (S P 500), and Standard
  Poor's 500 Integrated Telecom Index (Telecom Index). Total return equals
stock price appreciation plus reinvestment of dividends on a quarterly
basis. 

Certification
by the Chief Executive Officer 

As
required under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), our chief
executive officer has timely submitted to the NYSE his annual certification that
he is not aware of any violation by the company of NYSE corporate governance
standards. Also as required under the rules of the NYSE, readers are advised
that the certifications required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 are not included in this report but instead are included as exhibits to our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007. 

32 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

RISK
FACTORS 

In
addition to the other information set forth in this document, including the
matters contained under the caption  Cautionary Language Concerning
Forward-Looking Statements,  you should carefully read the matters described
below. We believe that each of these matters could materially affect our
business. We recognize that most of these factors are beyond our ability to
control and therefore to predict an outcome. Accordingly, we have organized them
by first addressing general factors, then industry factors and, finally, items
specifically applicable to us. 

Adverse
changes in the U.S. economy could materially hamper our customers  abilities to
purchase our products and services. 

We
provide services and products to consumers and large and small businesses in the
United States and to larger businesses throughout the world. While our wireless
customers are located throughout the United States, our wireline consumer and
small business customers are located in the 22 states in which we provide local
exchange services. Adverse changes in the U.S. economy are likely to adversely
affect these customers  ability to pay for existing services and to decrease
their interest in purchasing new services. Should this customer pullback occur,
we likely would experience both a decrease in revenues and an increase in
certain expenses, including expenses relating to bad debt. We are also likely to
experience pressure on pricing and margins as we continue to compete for
customers who would have less discretionary income. While our large-business
customers are less likely to be affected by adverse changes in any particular
economy, a lengthy U.S. or a global recession would tend to affect them in a
similar manner. 

Adverse
changes in medical costs and the U.S. securities markets and interest rates
could materially increase our benefit plan costs. 

Our
pension and postretirement costs are subject to increases, primarily due to
continuing increases in medical and prescription drug costs and can be affected
by lower returns in prior years on funds held by our pension and other benefit
plans, which are reflected in our financial statements over several years.
Investment returns on these funds depend largely on trends in the U.S.
securities markets and the U.S. economy. In calculating the annual costs
included on our financial statements of providing benefits under our plans, we
have made certain assumptions regarding future investment returns, medical costs
and interest rates. If actual investment returns, medical costs and interest
rates are worse than those previously assumed, our annual costs will
increase. 

The FASB
required companies to recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and
postretirement plans as an asset or liability in our statement of financial
position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the
changes occur through comprehensive income. Therefore, an increase in our costs
will have a negative effect on our balance sheet. 

Changes
in available technology could increase competition and our capital
costs. 

The
telecommunications industry has experienced rapid changes in the last several
years. The development of wireless, cable and IP technologies has significantly
increased the commercial viability of alternatives to traditional wireline
telephone service and enhanced the capabilities of wireless networks. In order
to remain competitive, we have begun to deploy a more sophisticated wireline
network and continue to deploy a more sophisticated wireless network, as well as
research other new technologies. If the new technologies we have adopted or on
which we have focused our research efforts fail to be cost-effective and
accepted by customers, our ability to remain competitive could be materially
adversely affected. 

Changes
to federal, state and foreign government regulations and decisions in regulatory
proceedings could materially adversely affect us. 

Our
wireline subsidiaries are subject to significant federal and state regulation
while many of our competitors are not. In addition, our subsidiaries and
affiliates operating outside the U.S. are also subject to the jurisdiction of
national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is
provided. Our wireless subsidiaries are regulated to varying degrees by the FCC
and some state and local agencies. The adoption of new regulations or changes to
existing regulations could significantly increase our costs, which either would
reduce our operating margins or potentially increase customer turnover should we
attempt to increase prices to cover our increased costs. In addition, the
development of new technologies, such as IP-based services, has created or
potentially could create conflicting regulation between the FCC and various
state and local authorities, which may involve lengthy litigation to resolve and
may result in outcomes unfavorable to us. 

33 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

                Dollars
in millions except per share
amounts 

Increasing
competition in our wireline markets could adversely affect wireline operating
margins. 

We expect
competition in the telecommunications industry to continue to intensify. We
expect this competition will continue to put pressure on pricing, margins and
customer retention. A number of our competitors that rely on alternative
technologies (e.g., wireless, cable and VoIP) are typically subject to less (or
no) regulation than our wireline and ATTC subsidiaries and therefore are able to
operate with lower costs. These competitors also have cost advantages compared
to us, due in part to a nonunionized workforce, lower employee benefits and
fewer retirees (as most of the competitors are relatively new companies). We
believe such advantages can be offset by continuing to increase the efficiency
of our operating systems and by improving employee training and productivity;
however, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will be
successful. 

Increasing
competition in the wireless industry could adversely affect our operating
results. 

On
average, we have three to four other wireless competitors in each of our service
areas and compete for customers based principally on price, service offerings,
call quality, coverage area and customer service. In addition, we are likely to
experience growing competition from providers offering services using
alternative wireless technologies and IP-based networks as well as traditional
wireline networks. We expect intense industry competition and market saturation
may cause the wireless industry s customer growth rate to moderate in comparison
with historical growth rates. We expect that the availability of additional 700
MHz spectrum to be licensed through the FCC s ongoing spectrum auction could
increase competition, the effectiveness of existing competition, or result in
new entrants in the wireless arena. This competition will continue to put
pressure on pricing and margins as companies compete for potential customers.
Our ability to respond will depend, among other things, on continued improvement
in network quality and customer service and effective marketing of attractive
products and services, and cost management. These efforts will involve
significant expenses and require strategic management decisions on, and timely
implementation of equipment choices, marketing plans and financial
budgets. 

Equipment failures, natural disasters
and terrorist attacks may materially adversely affect our operations  .  

Major
equipment failures or natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist
acts or other breaches of network or IT security that affect our wireline and
wireless networks, including telephone switching offices, microwave links,
third-party owned local and long-distance networks on which we rely, our cell
sites or other equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our
operations. While we have insurance coverage for some of these events, our
inability to operate our wireline or wireless systems, even for a limited time
period, may result in significant expenses, a loss of customers or impair our
ability to attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

The
success of our U-verse services initiative will depend on the timing, extent and
cost of deployment; the development of attractive and profitable service
offerings; the extent to which regulatory, franchise fees and build-out
requirements apply to this initiative; and the availability and reliability of
the various technologies required to provide such offerings. 

The trend
in telecommunications technology is to shift from the traditional circuit- and
wire-based technology to IP-based technology. IP-based technology can transport
voice and data, as well as video, from both wired and wireless networks.
IP-based networks also potentially cost less to operate than traditional
networks. Our competitors, many of which are newer companies, are deploying this
IP-based technology. In order to continue to offer attractive and competitively
priced services, we are deploying a new broadband network to offer IP-based
voice, data and video services. Using a new and sophisticated technology on a
very large scale entails risks but also presents opportunities to expand service
offerings to customers. Should deployment of our network be delayed or costs
exceed expected amounts, our margins would be adversely affected and such
effects could be material. Should regulatory requirements be different than we
anticipated, our deployment could be delayed, perhaps significantly, or limited
to only those geographical areas where regulation is not burdensome. In
addition, should the delivery of services expected to be deployed on our network
be delayed due to technological or regulatory constraints, performance of
suppliers, or other reasons, or the cost of providing such services becomes
higher than expected, customers may decide to purchase services from our
competitors, which would adversely affect our revenues and margins, and such
effects could be material. 

34 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

                Dollars
in millions except per share
amounts 

The
impact of our year-end 2006 acquisition of BellSouth, including the risk that
the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the
cost-savings and any other synergies from the acquisition may take longer to
realize than expected or may not be fully realized; and disruption from the
acquisition may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers,
employees or suppliers. 

We
acquired BellSouth in order to streamline the ownership and operations of
AT T Mobility and to combine the AT T Mobility, BellSouth and AT T
IP networks into a single IP network; to speed the deployment, and at lower
cost, of next-generation IP video and other services; to provide business
customers with the benefits of combining AT T s national and international
networks and services with BellSouth s local exchange and broadband services;
and to create potential cost-savings, technological development and other
benefits. Achieving these results will depend in part on successfully
integrating three large corporations, which could involve significant management
attention and create uncertainties for employees. To date, this integration has
proceeded on schedule and within our budget assumptions. We have not experienced
any significant customer or supplier disruptions. However, this process is
lengthy and we expect that it will continue to involve significant management
attention. We also expect to incur substantial expenses related to the
integration of these companies. We must integrate a large number of systems,
both operational and administrative. These integration expenses may result in
our taking significant charges against earnings, both cash and noncash,
primarily from the amortization of intangibles. Delays in this process could
have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and
financial condition. In addition, events outside of our control, including
changes in state and federal regulation and laws as well as economic trends,
also could adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits from
this acquisition. 

35 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
continued 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

CAUTIONARY
LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Information
set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to
risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially. Many of
these factors are discussed in more detail in the  Risk Factors  section. We
claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided
by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 

The
following factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those
expressed in the forward-looking statements: 

Adverse
      economic changes in the markets served by us or in countries in which we
      have significant investments. 

Changes
      in available technology and the effects of such changes including product
      substitutions and deployment costs. 

Increases
      in our benefit plans  costs including increases due to adverse changes in
      the U.S. and foreign securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed
      investment returns and discount rates, and adverse medical cost
      trends. 

The
      final outcome of Federal Communications Commission proceedings and
      reopenings of such proceedings and judicial review, if any, of such
      proceedings, including issues relating to access charges, broadband
      deployment, unbundled loop and transport elements and wireless
      services. 

The
      final outcome of regulatory proceedings in the states in which we operate
      and reopenings of such proceedings, and judicial review, if any, of such
      proceedings, including proceedings relating to interconnection terms,
      access charges, universal service, unbundled network elements and resale
      and wholesale rates, broadband deployment including our U-verse services,
      performance measurement plans, service standards and traffic
      compensation. 

Enactment
      of additional state, federal and/or foreign regulatory and tax laws and
      regulations pertaining to our subsidiaries and foreign
      investments. 

Our
      ability to absorb revenue losses caused by increasing competition,
      including offerings using alternative technologies (e.g., cable, wireless
      and VoIP), and our ability to maintain capital
    expenditures. 

The
      extent of competition and the resulting pressure on access line totals and
      wireline and wireless operating
margins. 

Our
      ability to develop attractive and profitable product/service offerings to
      offset increasing competition in our wireless and wireline
      markets. 

The
      ability of our competitors to offer product/service offerings at lower
      prices due to lower cost structures and regulatory and legislative actions
      adverse to us, including state regulatory proceedings relating to
      unbundled network elements and nonregulation of comparable alternative
      technologies (e.g., VoIP). 

The
      timing, extent and cost of deployment of our U-verse services (our
      Lightspeed initiative); the development of attractive and profitable
      service offerings; the extent to which regulatory, franchise fees and
      build-out requirements apply to this initiative; and the availability,
      cost and/or reliability of the various technologies and/or content
      required to provide such offerings. 

The
      outcome of pending or threatened litigation including patent claims by or
      against third parties. 

The
      impact on our networks and business of major equipment failures, severe
      weather conditions, natural disasters or terrorist
  attacks. 

The
      issuance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other accounting
      oversight bodies of new accounting standards or changes to existing
      standards. 

The
      issuance by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state tax authorities of
      new tax regulations or changes to existing standards and actions by
      federal, state or local tax agencies and judicial authorities with respect
      to applying applicable tax laws and regulations; and the resolution of
      disputes with any taxing
jurisdictions. 

Our
      ability to adequately fund our wireless operations, including access to
      additional spectrum; network upgrades and technological
      advancements. 

The
      impact of our acquisition of BellSouth, including the risk that the
      businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost
      savings and any other synergies from the acquisition may take longer to
      realize than expected or may not be fully realized; and disruption from
      the acquisition may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with
      customers, employees or suppliers. 

Changes
      in our corporate strategies, such as changing network requirements or
      acquisitions and dispositions, to respond to competition and regulatory,
      legislative and technological
developments. 

Readers
are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not
enumerated here, also could materially affect our future earnings. 

36 

37 

38 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements. 

39 

40 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Basis of
Presentation   Throughout this document, AT T Inc. is
referred to as  AT T,   we  or the  Company.   The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company and our majority-owned
subsidiaries and affiliates. Our subsidiaries and affiliates operate in the
communications services industry throughout the U.S. and internationally,
providing wireless and wireline telecommunications services and equipment as
well as directory advertising and publishing services. On December 29, 2006, we
acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of BellSouth Corporation
(BellSouth). BellSouth is a wholly-owned subsidiary and the results of
BellSouth s operations have been included in our consolidated financial
statements after the December 29, 2006 acquisition date. For a detailed
discussion of our acquisition, see Note 2. 

All
significant intercompany transactions are eliminated in the consolidation
process. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, and
less-than-majority-owned subsidiaries where we have significant influence are
accounted for under the equity method. Prior to the closing of the BellSouth
acquisition on December 29, 2006, we accounted for our joint ventures with
BellSouth under the equity method since we shared control equally. Thus, for
2006 we recorded as equity income our proportionate share of economic ownership
in these joint ventures, namely, 60% of AT T Mobility LLC (AT T
Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC, and 66% of YELLOWPAGES.COM (YPC).
AT T Mobility and YPC became wholly-owned subsidiaries of AT T on
December 29, 2006. Earnings from certain foreign equity investments accounted
for using the equity method are included for periods ended within up to one
month of our year end (see Note 7). 

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes, including estimates of probable losses and expenses. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. 

FAS 159   In February
2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities  (FAS 159). FAS 159 permits companies to choose
to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value,
providing the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by
measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply
complex hedge accounting provisions. FAS 159 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2007. We elected not to adopt the fair value option
for valuation of those assets and liabilities which are eligible, therefore
there is no impact on our financial position and results of
operations. 

FAS 160   In December
2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160,
 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of
ARB No. 51  (FAS 160). FAS 160 requires noncontrolling interests held by parties
other than the parent in subsidiaries be clearly identified, labeled, and
presented in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, but
separate from the parent s equity. FAS 160 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact FAS
160 will have on our financial position and results of operations. 

FAS 141(R)  In December 2007,
the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised
2007),  Business Combinations  (FAS 141(R)). FAS 141(R) is a revision of FAS 141
and requires that costs incurred to effect the acquisition (i.e.,
acquisition-related costs) be recognized separately from the acquisition. In
addition, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
141,  Business Combinations  (FAS 141), restructuring costs that the acquirer
expected but was not obligated to incur, which included changes to benefit
plans, were recognized as if they were a liability assumed at the acquisition
date. FAS 141(R) requires the acquirer to recognize those costs separately from
the business combination. We are currently evaluating the impact that FAS 141(R)
will have on our accounting for acquisitions prior to the effective date of the
first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2008. 

FIN 48  We adopted FASB
Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48) on
January 1, 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  The
Interpretation prescribes a threshold for the financial statement recognition
and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken within an income
tax return. For each tax position, the enterprise must determine whether it is
more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination based
on the technical merits of the position, including resolution of any related
appeals or litigation. A tax position that meets the more likely than not
recognition threshold is then measured to determine the amount of benefit to
recognize within the financial statements. No benefits may be recognized for tax
positions that do not meet the more likely than not threshold. As required by
FIN 48, on January 1, 2007, we reclassified deferred income tax liabilities of
$6,225 from our  Deferred income taxes  for unrecognized tax benefits, of which
$6,100 was included in  Other noncurrent liabilities  and $175 was included in
 Accrued taxes  on our consolidated balance sheets and the remaining $50 was
recorded as a reduction to the beginning-of-year retained earnings to reflect
the cumulative effect of adoption of FIN 48 in the first quarter. In May 2007,
the FASB issued further guidance on whether a tax position is effectively
settled, the adoption of which did not have a material impact on our financial
position. 

41 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

EITF 06-11   In June
2007, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) ratified the consensus on EITF
06-11,  Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment
Awards.  EITF 06-11 provides that a realized income tax benefit from dividends
or dividend equivalents that are charged to retained earnings and are paid to
employees for nonvested equity-classified share-based awards and
equity-classified outstanding share options should be recognized as an increase
to additional paid-in capital rather than a reduction of income tax expense.
EITF 06-11 applies prospectively to the income tax benefits that result from
dividends on equity-classified employee share-based payment awards that are
declared in fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2007. EITF 06-11 will
not have a material impact on our financial position and results of
operations. 

Reclassifications   We
have reclassified certain amounts in prior-period financial statements to
conform to the current period s presentation. Included among these, as a result
of integration activities following our December 2006 acquisition of BellSouth,
we revised our segment reporting in 2007 (see Note 4). 

Income Taxes   As
discussed previously in this footnote, we adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007.
Prior to our adoption of FIN 48, we provided deferred income taxes for temporary
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes. With our adoption of
FIN 48, we provide deferred income taxes for temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and
the tax basis of assets and liabilities computed pursuant to FIN 48. Under FIN
48, the tax bases of assets and liabilities are based on amounts that meet the
FIN 48 recognition threshold and are measured pursuant to the measurement
requirement in FIN 48. To the extent allowed by GAAP, we provide valuation
allowances against the deferred tax assets for which the realization is
uncertain. We review these items regularly in light of changes in federal and
state tax laws and changes in our business. 

Investment
tax credits earned prior to their repeal by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 are
amortized as reductions in income tax expense over the lives of the assets,
which gave rise to the credits. Additionally, we report taxes imposed by
governmental authorities on revenue-producing transactions between us and our
customers in the income statement on a net basis. 

Cash
Equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents include all
highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and
the carrying amounts  approximate fair value. At December 31, 2007, we held $889
in cash and $1,081 in money market funds and other cash
equivalents. 

Investment
Securities   Investments in securities principally consist of
available-for-sale instruments. Short-term and long-term investments in money
market securities are carried as held-to-maturity securities. Available-for-sale
securities consist of various debt and equity securities that are long term in
nature. Unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, on available-for-sale
securities are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. Our
investment securities maturing within one year are recorded in  Other current
assets  and instruments with maturities of more than one year are recorded in
 Other Assets  on the consolidated balance sheets. 

Revenue
Recognition   Revenues derived from wireless, local telephone,
long-distance, data and video services are recognized when services are
provided. This is based upon either usage (e.g., minutes of traffic processed),
period of time (e.g., monthly service fees) or other established fee schedules.
Our wireless service revenues are billed either in advance, arrears or are
prepaid. Our wireless Rollover  rate plans include a feature whereby unused
anytime minutes do not expire each month but rather are available, under certain
conditions, for future use for a period not to exceed one year from the date of
purchase. Using historical subscriber usage patterns, we defer these revenues
based on an estimate of the portion of unused minutes expected to be utilized
prior to expiration. 

42 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

We record
an estimated revenue reduction for future adjustments to customer accounts,
other than a provision for doubtful accounts, at the time revenue is recognized
based on historical experience. Service revenues also include billings to our
customers for various regulatory fees imposed on us by governmental authorities.
Cash incentives given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. When
required as part of providing service, revenues and associated expenses related
to nonrefundable, upfront service activation and setup fees are deferred and
recognized over the associated service contract period. If no service contract
exists, those fees are recognized over the average customer relationship period.
Associated expenses are deferred only to the extent of such deferred revenue.
For contracts that involve the bundling of services, revenue is allocated to the
services based on their relative fair value. We record the sale of equipment to
customers as gross revenue when we are the primary obligor in the arrangement,
when title is passed and when the products are accepted by customers. For
agreements involving the resale of third-party services in which we are not
considered the primary obligor of the arrangement, we record the revenue net of
the associated costs incurred. For contracts where we provide customers with an
indefeasible right to use network capacity, we recognize revenue ratably over
the stated life of the agreement. 

We
recognize revenues and expenses related to publishing directories on the
amortization method, which recognizes revenues and expenses ratably over the
life of the directory title, typically 12 months. 

Traffic Compensation
Expense   We use various estimates and assumptions to determine
the amount of traffic compensation expenses recognized during any reporting
period. Switched traffic compensation costs are accrued utilizing estimated
rates by product, formulated from historical data and adjusted for known rate
changes and volume levels. Such estimates are adjusted monthly to reflect
newly-available information, such as rate changes and new contractual
agreements. Bills reflecting actual incurred information are generally not
received until three to nine months subsequent to the end of the reporting
period, at which point a final adjustment is made to the accrued switched
traffic compensation expense. Dedicated traffic compensation costs are estimated
based on the number of circuits and the average projected circuit costs. These
costs are adjusted to reflect actual expenses over the three months following
the end of the reporting period as bills are received. 

Allowance for
Uncollectibles   We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts
for estimated losses that result from the failure or inability of our customers
to make required payments. When determining the allowance, we consider the
probability of recoverability of accounts receivable based on past experience,
taking into account current collection trends as well as general economic
factors, including bankruptcy rates. Credit risks are assessed based on
historical write-offs, net of recoveries, as well as an analysis of the aged
accounts receivable balances with reserves generally increasing as the
receivable ages. Accounts receivable may be fully reserved for when specific
collection issues are known to exist, such as pending bankruptcy or
catastrophes. The analysis of receivables is performed monthly and the bad-debt
allowances are adjusted accordingly. 

Inventory   Inventories
are included in  Other current assets  on our consolidated balance sheet and
were $1,119 and $756 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Wireless
handsets and accessories, which are valued at the lower of cost or market value
(determined using current replacement cost) amount to $836 and $467 for the
years 2007 and 2006. The remainder of our inventory includes new and reusable
supplies and network equipment of our local telephone operations, which are
stated principally at average original cost, except that specific costs are used
in the case of large individual items. Inventories of our other subsidiaries are
stated at the lower of cost or market. 

Property, Plant and
Equipment   Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost,
except for assets acquired using purchase accounting, which are recorded at fair
value (see Note 2). The cost of additions and substantial improvements to
property, plant and equipment is capitalized. The cost of maintenance and
repairs of property, plant and equipment is charged to operating expenses.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated using straight-line methods over
their estimated economic lives. Certain subsidiaries follow composite group
depreciation methodology; accordingly, when a portion of their depreciable
property, plant and equipment is retired in the ordinary course of business, the
gross book value is reclassified to accumulated depreciation; no gain or loss is
recognized on the disposition of this plant. 

Property,
plant and equipment is reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An
impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying   amount of a long-lived
asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of a
long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted
cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the
asset. 

43 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The fair
value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation is recorded in the
period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be
made. In periods subsequent to initial measurement, period-to-period changes in
the liability for an asset retirement obligation resulting from the passage of
time and revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate
of undiscounted cash flows are recognized. The increase in the carrying value of
the associated long-lived asset is depreciated over the corresponding estimated
economic life. 

Software Costs   It
is our policy to capitalize certain costs incurred in connection with developing
or obtaining internal-use software. Capitalized software costs are included in
 Property, Plant and Equipment  on our consolidated balance sheets and are
primarily amortized over a three-year period. Software costs that do not meet
capitalization criteria are expensed immediately. 

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets   Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid
over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Goodwill
and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are tested at
least annually for impairment. We have completed our annual impairment testing
for 2007 and determined that no impairment exists. The significant increase in
the carrying amount of our goodwill in 2006 primarily resulted from our
acquisition of BellSouth. 

Intangible
assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives, a
weighted average of 7.4 years. Customer relationships are amortized using
primarily the sum-of-the-months-digits method of amortization over the expected
period in which those relationships are expected to contribute to our future
cash flows based in such a way as to allocate it as equitably as possible to
periods during which we expect to benefit from those relationships. 

A
significant portion of intangible assets in our wireless segment are Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) licenses that provide us with the exclusive
right to utilize certain radio frequency spectrum to provide wireless
communications services. While FCC licenses are issued for a fixed time,
renewals of FCC licenses have occurred routinely and at nominal cost. Moreover,
we have determined that there are currently no legal, regulatory, contractual,
competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful lives of our
FCC licenses and therefore the FCC licenses are an indefinite-lived intangible
asset under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  

In
accordance with EITF No. 02-7,  Unit of Accounting for Testing Impairment of
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets,    we test FCC licenses
for impairment on an aggregate basis, consistent with the management of the
business on a national scope. We utilize a fair value approach, incorporating
discounted cash flows, to complete the test. This approach determines the fair
value of the FCC licenses and, accordingly, incorporates cash flow assumptions
regarding the investment in a network, the development of distribution channels
and other inputs for making the business operational. As these inputs are
included in determining free cash flows of the business, the present value of
the free cash flows is attributable to the licenses. The discount rate applied
to the cash flows is consistent with our weighted-average cost of capital.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, we completed the annual impairment tests for
indefinite-lived FCC licenses. These annual impairment tests resulted in no
impairment of indefinite-lived FCC licenses. 

Advertising
Costs   Advertising costs for advertising products and services
or for promoting our corporate image are expensed as incurred. 

Foreign Currency
Translation   Our foreign investments and foreign subsidiaries
generally report their earnings in their local currencies. We translate our
share of their foreign assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the
balance sheet dates. We translate our share of their revenues and expenses using
average rates during the year. The resulting foreign currency translation
adjustments are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Gains and
losses resulting from exchange-rate changes on transactions denominated in a
currency other than the local currency are included in earnings as
incurred. 

We have
also entered into foreign currency contracts to minimize our exposure to risk of
adverse changes in currency exchange rates. We are subject to foreign exchange
risk for foreign currency-denominated transactions, such as debt issued,
recognized payables and receivables and forecasted transactions. At December 31,
2007, our foreign currency exposures were principally Euros, British pound
sterling, Danish krone and Japanese yen. 

44 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Derivative Financial
Instruments   We record derivatives on the balance sheet at fair
value. We do not invest in derivatives for trading purposes. We use derivatives
from time to time as part of our strategy to manage risks associated with our
contractual commitments. These derivatives are designated as either a hedge of
the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm
commitment (fair value hedge), or a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the
variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset
or liability (cash flow hedge). Our derivative financial instruments primarily
include interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency exchange contracts.
For example, we use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to changes in
interest rates on our debt obligations (see Note 9). We account for our interest
rate swaps using mark-to-market accounting and include gains or losses from
interest rate swaps when paid or received in interest expense in our
consolidated statements of income. Amounts paid or received on interest rate
forward contracts are amortized over the period of the related interest
payments. 

All other
derivatives are not formally designated for accounting purposes (undesignated).
These derivatives, although undesignated for accounting purposes, are entered
into to hedge economic risks. 

We record
changes in the fair value of fair value hedges, along with the changes in the
fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged
risk. Gains or losses upon termination of our fair value hedges are recognized
as interest expense when the hedge instrument is settled. 

We record
changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, along with the changes in the
fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged
risk, in  Accumulated other comprehensive income,  which is a component of
Stockholders' Equity. The settlement gains or costs on our cash flow hedges are
amortized as interest expense over the term of the interest payments of the
related debt issuances. 

Changes
in the fair value of undesignated derivatives are recorded in other income
(expense), net, along with the change in fair value of the underlying asset or
liability, as applicable. 

Cash
flows associated with derivative instruments are presented in the same category
on the consolidated statements of cash flows as the item being
hedged. 

When
hedge accounting is discontinued, the derivative is adjusted for changes in fair
value through other income (expense), net. For fair value hedges, the underlying
asset or liability will no longer be adjusted for changes in fair value, and any
asset or liability recorded in connection with the hedging relationship
(including firm commitments) will be removed from the balance sheet and recorded
in current-period earnings. For cash flow hedges, gains and losses that were
accumulated in other comprehensive income as a component of stockholders' equity
in connection with hedged assets or liabilities or forecasted transactions will
be recognized in other income (expense) - net, in the same period the hedged
item affects earnings. 

Employee
Separations   In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 112,  Employers  Accounting for Postemployment
Benefits,  (FAS 112) we establish obligations for expected termination benefits
provided under existing plans to former or inactive employees after employment
but before retirement. These benefits include severance payments, workers 
compensation, disability, medical continuation coverage and other benefits. At
December 31, 2007, we had severance accruals under FAS 112 of $153, of which $99
was established as merger-related severance accruals. At December 31, 2006, we
had severance accruals of $286. 

Pension and Postretirement
Benefits   See Note 11 for a comprehensive discussion of our
pension and postretirement benefit expense, including a discussion of the
actuarial assumptions. 

45 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
2. ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS, VALUATION AND OTHER ADJUSTMENTS 

Acquisitions 

       Dobson   In November
2007, we acquired Dobson Communications Corporation (Dobson) for approximately
$2,500. Under the purchase method of accounting, the transaction was valued, for
accounting purposes, at $2,580. Our December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet
includes the preliminary valuation of the fair value of Dobson s assets and
liabilities, including goodwill of $2,623, licenses of $2,230, customer lists of
$517 and other intangible assets totaling $8 associated with this transaction.
The values of the assets and liabilities are subject to adjustment as additional
information becomes available. When finalized, material adjustments to goodwill
may result. 

Dobson
marketed wireless services under the Cellular One brand and had provided roaming
services to AT T subsidiaries since 1990. Dobson had 1.7 million subscribers
across 17 states, mostly in rural and suburban areas with a population covered
of more than 12.6 million people. Dobson s operations were incorporated into our
wireless operations following the date of acquisition. 

BellSouth
Corporation   In December 2006, we acquired BellSouth, issuing
2.4 billion shares. BellSouth was the leading communications service provider in
the southeastern U.S., providing wireline communications services, including
local exchange, network access, long-distance services and Internet services to
substantial portions of the population across nine states. BellSouth also
provided long-distance services to enterprise customers throughout the
country. 

We and
BellSouth jointly owned AT T Mobility and the Internet-based publisher YPC.
In the AT T Mobility joint venture, we held a 60% economic interest and
BellSouth held a 40% economic interest, and in the YPC joint venture, we held a
66% economic interest and BellSouth held a 34% economic interest. For each joint
venture, control was shared equally. We and BellSouth each accounted for the
joint ventures under the equity method of accounting, recording the proportional
share of AT T Mobility s and YPC s income as equity in net income of
affiliates on the respective consolidated statements of income and reporting the
ownership percentage of AT T Mobility s net assets as  Investments in and
Advances to AT T Mobility  and the ownership percentage of YPC s net assets
as  Investments in Equity Affiliates  on the respective consolidated balance
sheets. After the BellSouth acquisition, BellSouth, AT T Mobility and YPC
became wholly-owned subsidiaries of AT T, and the operational results of
these companies have been included in our consolidated financial statements
since the December 29, 2006 acquisition date. 

Under the
purchase method of accounting, the transaction was valued, for accounting
purposes, at approximately $66,800. We conducted an appraisal of the assets and
liabilities of BellSouth and AT T Mobility for inclusion in the balance
sheet, adjusting 100% of BellSouth s and 40% of AT T Mobility s values.
Long-lived assets such as property, plant and equipment reflect a value of
replacing the assets, which takes into account changes in technology, usage, and
relative obsolescence and depreciation of the assets, sometimes referred to as a
 Greenfield approach.  This approach often results in differences, sometimes
material, from recorded book values even if, absent the acquisition, the assets
would not be impaired. In addition, assets and liabilities that would not
normally be recorded in ordinary operations (i.e., customer relationships) were
recorded at their acquisition values. Debt instruments and investments were
valued in relation to current market conditions and other assets and liabilities
were valued based on the acquiring company s estimates. After all values were
assigned to assets and liabilities, the remainder of the purchase price was
recorded as goodwill. 

46 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values of the
BellSouth assets acquired and liabilities assumed and related deferred income
taxes as of the acquisition date and final adjustments made
thereto. 

Adjustments
were primarily related to finalization of participant count estimates used in
the opening balance sheet valuation for the pension and postretirement plans, a
gain on a contingency related to an insurance claim recovery for Hurricane
Katrina damages, AT T Mobility s purchase accounting adjustments and tax
impacts related thereto, the valuation of certain licenses and a decrease in the
estimate of relative obsolescence of property, plant and equipment resulting in
an increase in value and longer average remaining economic life. Deferred tax
adjustments are associated with the above-mentioned items. 

47 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

BellSouth s
40% economic ownership of AT T Mobility was recorded above as  Investment in
AT T Mobility,  and was eliminated on our consolidated balance sheets. We
recorded the consolidation of AT T Mobility as a step acquisition, retaining
60% of AT T Mobility s prior book value and adjusting the remaining 40% to
fair value. The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values
(40%) and historical book values (60%) of the AT T Mobility assets acquired
and liabilities assumed and related deferred income taxes as of the acquisition
date and final adjustments made thereto. 

Adjustments
were primarily related to valuation estimates that, due to the proximity of the
merger to year-end, were based on data from periods prior to the close of the
December 29, 2006 acquisition. Using the December 29, 2006 data, purchase price
allocations decreased the opening balance sheet values of property, plant and
equipment, trademark/names and other intangibles, offset by an increased value
of licenses and customer lists and relationships acquired. Deferred tax
adjustments are associated with the above-mentioned items. 

Substantially
all of the licenses acquired have an indefinite life, and accordingly, are not
subject to amortization. The majority of customer relationship intangible assets
are being amortized over a weighted-average period of 6.4 years using the
sum-of-the-months-digits method. This method best reflects the estimated pattern
in which the economic benefits will be consumed. Other intangible assets and
other noncurrent liabilities include lease and sublease contracts, which are
amortized over the remaining terms of the underlying leases and have a
weighted-average amortization period of 6.4 years. 

AT T Corp.   In
November 2005, we acquired ATTC in a transaction accounted for under FAS 141,
issuing 632 million shares. ATTC was one of the nation s leading business
service communications providers, offering a variety of global communications
services, including large domestic and multinational businesses, small and
medium-size businesses and government agencies, and operated one of the leading
telecommunications networks in the U.S. ATTC also provided domestic and
international long-distance and usage-based-communications services to consumer
customers. ATTC is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T and the results of
ATTC s operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements
after the November 18, 2005 acquisition date. 

48 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Under the
purchase method of accounting, the transaction was valued, for accounting
purposes, at $15,517 and the assets and liabilities of ATTC were recorded at
their respective fair values as of the date of the acquisition. 

Other
Acquisitions   During 2007, we acquired Interwise   , a
global provider of voice, Web and video conferencing services to businesses for
$122 and Ingenio   , a
provider of Pay Per Call   
technology for directory and local search business for $195, net of cash. We
recorded $304 of goodwill related to these acquisitions. 

During
2006, we acquired Comergent Technologies, Nistevo Corporation and
USinternetworking, Inc., for a combined $500, recording $333 in goodwill. The
acquisitions of these companies are designed to enhance our service offerings
for Web hosting and application management. In January 2005, we acquired Yantra
Corporation (Yantra) for $169 in cash and recorded goodwill of $98. Yantra is a
provider of distributed order management and supply-chain fulfillment
services. 

Dispositions 

      In May
2007, we sold to Clearwire Corporation (Clearwire), a national provider of
wireless broadband Internet access, education broadband service spectrum and
broadband radio service spectrum valued at $300. Sale of this spectrum was
required as a condition to the approval of our acquisition of
BellSouth. 

Valuation
and Other Adjustments 

      As ATTC
and BellSouth stock options that were converted at the time of the respective
acquisitions are exercised, the tax effect on those options may further reduce
goodwill. During 2007, we recorded $9 in related goodwill reductions for ATTC
and $33 for BellSouth. 

Included
in the current liabilities reported on our consolidated balance sheet are
accruals established under EITF Issue No. 95-3,  Recognition of Liabilities in
Connection with a Purchase Business Combination  (EITF 95-3). The liabilities
include accruals for severance, lease terminations and equipment removal costs
associated with our acquisitions of ATTC and BellSouth. 

Included
in the liabilities valued for the December 2006 acquisition of BellSouth was
accrued severance of $535 for BellSouth employees and $44 for AT T Mobility
employees, all of which will be paid from company cash. In addition, we also
reviewed, confirmed and developed plans affecting the integration of retail
stores, administrative space and networks including those acquired in AT T
Mobility s acquisition of AT T Wireless Services, Inc. When these
acquisition plans were finalized during 2007, we recorded additional accruals
for severance, lease terminations and equipment removal costs at AT T
Mobility. 

Following
is a summary of the accruals recorded at December 31, 2006, cash payments made
during 2007 and the purchase accounting adjustments thereto, for the
acquisitions of ATTC and BellSouth. 

49 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
3. EARNINGS PER SHARE  

A
reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of basic earnings per share
and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005 are shown in the table below: 

At
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had issued and outstanding options to
purchase approximately 231 million, 309 million and 277 million shares of
AT T common stock. The exercise prices of options to purchase a
weighted-average of 93 million, 201 million and 257 million shares in 2007,
2006, and 2005 exceeded the average market price of AT T stock. Accordingly,
we did not include these amounts in determining the dilutive potential common
shares for the respective periods. At December 31, 2007, the exercise prices of
162 million share options were below market price. 

50 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION 

Our
segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services
and are managed accordingly. We analyze our various operating segments based on
segment income before income taxes. Interest expense, interest income and other
income (expense)   net are managed only on a total company basis and are,
accordingly, reflected only in consolidated results. The wireless segment
includes minority interest reported as other income (expense)   net in the
consolidated statements of income. Therefore, these items are not included in
the calculation of each segment s percentage of our consolidated results. As a
result of the December 29, 2006 acquisition of BellSouth we have revised our
segment reporting to represent how we now manage our business, restating prior
periods to conform to the current segments. The customers and long-lived assets
of our reportable segments are predominantly in the United States. We have four
reportable segments: (1) wireless, (2) wireline, (3) advertising
  publishing and (4) other. 

The
wireless segment provides voice, data and other wireless communications
services, and includes 100% of the results of AT T Mobility, which was our
wireless joint venture with BellSouth prior to the December 29, 2006 acquisition
and is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T. Prior to the acquisition, we
analyzed AT T Mobility s revenues and expenses under the wireless segment,
and we eliminated the wireless segment in our consolidated financial statements.
In our 2006 and prior consolidated financial statements we reported our 60%
proportionate share of AT T Mobility s results as equity in net income of
affiliates. 

The
wireline segment provides both retail and wholesale landline communications
services, including local and long-distance voice, switched access, Internet
protocol and Internet access data, messaging services, managed networking to
business customers, AT T U-verse SM  TV
service (U-verse) and satellite television services through our agency
agreements with EchoStar Communications Corp. (EchoStar) and the DIRECTV Group,
Inc. 

The
advertising   publishing segment includes our directory operations, which
publish Yellow and White Pages directories and sell directory and Internet-based
advertising. This segment also includes the results of YPC, which was a joint
venture with BellSouth prior to the December 29, 2006 acquisition and is now a
wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T. For segment reporting disclosure, we have
carried forward the deferred revenue and deferred cost balances for BellSouth at
the acquisition date in order to reflect how the segment is managed. This is
different for consolidated reporting purposes as under FAS 141, BellSouth
deferred revenue and expenses from directories published during the 12-month
period ending with the December 29, 2006 acquisition date, are not recognized
and therefore were not included in the opening balance sheet. For management
reporting purposes, we continue to amortize these balances over the life of the
directory. Thus, our advertising   publishing segment results in 2007
include revenue of $964 and expenses of $308, related to directories published
in the Southeast region during 2006, prior to our acquisition of BellSouth.
These amounts are eliminated in the consolidations and eliminations column in
the reconciliation below. 

The other
segment includes results from Sterling Commerce, Inc., customer information
services and all corporate and other operations. This segment includes our
portion of the results from our international equity investments. Prior to
December 29, 2006, this segment also included our results from AT T Mobility
as equity in net income of affiliates, as discussed above. 

In the
following tables, we show how our segment results are reconciled to our
consolidated results reported in accordance with GAAP. The Wireless, Wireline,
Advertising   Publishing and Other columns represent the segment results of
each such operating segment. The Consolidation and Elimination column adds in
those line items that we manage on a consolidated basis only: interest expense,
interest income and other income (expense)   net. This column also
eliminates any intercompany transactions included in each segment s results as
well as the advertising   publishing revenue and expenses in 2007 related to
directories published in the Southeast region during 2006, mentioned previously.
In 2006, since our 60% share of the results from AT T Mobility is already
included in the Other column, the Wireless Elimination column removes the
non-consolidated results shown in the wireless segment. 

51 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Segment
results, including a reconciliation to AT T consolidated results, for 2007,
2006 and 2005 are as follows: 

52 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

53 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

Property,
plant and equipment is summarized as follows at December 31: 

Our
depreciation expense was $15,625 in 2007, $8,874 in 2006 and $7,372 in
2005. 

Certain
facilities and equipment used in operations are leased under operating or
capital leases. Rental expenses under operating leases were $2,566 for 2007,
$869 for 2006, and $473 for 2005. The future minimum rental payments under
noncancelable operating leases for the years 2008 through 2012 are $2,088,
$1,850, $1,629, $1,399 and $1,223, with $6,958 due thereafter. Capital leases
are not significant. 

American
Tower Corp. Agreement 

In August
2000, we reached an agreement with American Tower Corp. (American Tower) under
which we granted American Tower the exclusive rights to lease space on a number
of our communications towers. In exchange, we received a combination of cash and
equity instruments as complete prepayment of rent with the closing of each
leasing agreement. The value of the prepayments was recorded as deferred revenue
and recognized in income as revenue over the life of the leases. The balance of
deferred revenue was $539 in 2007, $568 in 2006, and $598 in 2005. 

54 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
6. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Changes
in the carrying amounts of goodwill, by segment, for the years ended December
31, 2007 and 2006, are as follows: 

Goodwill
is tested annually for impairment, with any impairments being expensed in that
period s income statement. Due to the proximity of our acquisition of BellSouth
to year-end 2006, we originally recorded all BellSouth assets, including
goodwill, in our other segment. In 2007, in conjunction with our segment
realignment (see Note 4) we moved the initial BellSouth goodwill to our wireline
and advertising   publishing segments. During our allocation period, we
completed purchase accounting adjustments to the AT T Mobility and BellSouth
goodwill (see Note 2). Other changes to goodwill include adjustments totaling
$42 for the tax effect of stock options exercised. 

Our other
intangible assets are summarized as follows: 

55 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Amortized
intangible assets are definite-life assets, and as such, we record amortization
expense based on a method that most appropriately reflects our expected cash
flows from these assets with a weighted-average amortization period of 7.4 years
(7.3 years for customer lists and relationships and 9.6 years for other).
Amortization expense for definite-life intangible assets was $5,952, $1,033 and
$271 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Amortization expense is estimated to be $4,430 in 2008, $3,540 in 2009, $2,740
in 2010, $1,820 in 2011 and $1,200 in 2012. 

Licenses
include FCC licenses of $37,948 that provide us with the exclusive right to
utilize certain radio frequency spectrum to provide wireless communications
services. While FCC licenses are issued for a fixed time, renewals of FCC
licenses have occurred routinely and at nominal cost. Moreover, we have
determined that there are currently no legal, regulatory, contractual,
competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful lives of our FCC
licenses and therefore, treat the FCC licenses as an indefinite-lived intangible
asset. 

NOTE
7. EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS 

Investments
in partnerships, joint ventures, and less-than-majority-owned subsidiaries where
we have significant influence are accounted for under the equity method. Until
our acquisition of BellSouth in December 2006 (see Note 2), we accounted for our
60% economic interest in AT T Mobility under the equity method since we
shared control equally with BellSouth, our 40% economic partner. We had equal
voting rights and representation on the board of directors that controlled
AT T Mobility. As a result of the BellSouth acquisition, AT T Mobility
became a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T and is reported in our wireless
segment and our consolidated statements of income. 

AT T
Mobility   As of December 29, 2006, we report AT T Mobility
as a wholly-owned subsidiary. 

The
following table presents summarized operating results for AT T Mobility
prior to the December 29, 2006 BellSouth acquisition: 

Equity Method
Investments   Our investments in equity affiliates include
primarily international investments. As of December 31, 2007, our investments in
equity affiliates included a 9.3% interest in Tel fonos de M xico, S.A. de C.V.
(Telmex), Mexico s national telecommunications company, and an 8.2% interest in
Am rica M vil S.A. de C.V. (Am rica M vil), primarily a wireless provider in
Mexico, with telecommunications investments in the United States and Latin
America. We are a member of a consortium that holds all of the class AA shares
of Telmex stock, representing voting control of the company. Another member of
the consortium, Carso Global Telecom, S.A. de C.V., has the right to appoint a
majority of the directors of Telmex. We also are a member of a consortium that
holds all of the class AA shares of Am rica M vil stock, representing voting
control of the company. Another member of the consortium, Americas Telecom S.A.
de C.V., has the right to appoint a majority of the directors of Am rica M vil.
On November 14, 2007, Telmex s board of directors approved a strategic
initiative to divide the company into two separate companies. The initiative
calls for Telmex to split off all of its Latin American businesses and its
Mexican yellow pages business to a new holding company, Telmex Internacional.
The spin-off was approved by shareholders on December 21, 2007. The proposed
spin-off will be subject to compliance with the regulatory requirements in
Mexico and other jurisdictions. 

56 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
following table is a reconciliation of our investments in equity affiliates as
presented on our consolidated balance sheets: 

Undistributed
earnings from equity affiliates were $2,335 and $2,038 at December 31, 2007
and 2006, respectively. The currency translation adjustment for 2007 and 2006
primarily reflects the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our investments
in Telmex and Am rica M vil.  Other adjustments  for 2006 consisted primarily of
$375 representing the consolidation of Cellular Communications of Puerto Rico,
YPC and other domestic wireless investments as wholly-owned subsidiaries of
AT T as a result of the BellSouth acquisition and $75 representing purchase
accounting revaluation of equity investments in ATTC. 

The fair
value of our investment in Telmex, based on the equivalent value of Telmex L
shares at December 31, 2007, was $3,315. The fair value of our investment in
Am rica M vil, based on the equivalent value of Am rica M vil L shares at
December 31, 2007, was $8,808. 

NOTE
8. DEBT 

Long-term
debt of AT T and its subsidiaries, including interest rates and maturities,
is summarized as follows at December 31: 

On
December 29, 2006, we included on our balance sheet $28,321 in long-term debt
and capital leases related to our acquisition of BellSouth (see Note 2). The
debt of AT T Mobility was included in that amount since it is now a
subsidiary of AT T. BellSouth s and AT T Mobility s long-term debt
included both fixed and floating interest rates with a weighted-average rate of
6.7% (ranging from 4.2% to 8.8%) and had maturities ranging from 2007 to 2097.
Included in our  Total notes and debentures  balance in the table above was the
face value of acquired debt from BellSouth and AT T Mobility of $25,234,
which had a carrying amount of $26,968 at December 31, 2006. 

Included
in the table above at December 31, 2006, was $1,734 representing the
remaining excess of the fair value over the recorded value of debt in connection
with the acquisition of BellSouth and AT T Mobility. The excess is amortized
over the remaining lives of the underlying debt obligations. 

We have
debt instruments that may require us to repurchase the debt or which may alter
the interest rate associated with that debt. We have $1,000 of Puttable Reset
Securities (PURS) at 4.2% maturing in 2021 with an annual put option by the
holder. If the holders of our PURS do not require us to repurchase the
securities, the interest rate will be reset based on current market conditions.
Since these securities can be put to us annually, the balance is included in
current maturities of long-term debt in our balance sheet. 

57 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Beginning
in May 2009, our $500 zero-coupon puttable note may be presented for redemption
by the holder at specified dates, but not more frequently than annually,
excluding 2011. If the note is held to maturity in 2022, the redemption amount
will be $1,030. 

As of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, we were in compliance with all covenants and
conditions of instruments governing our debt. Substantially all of our
outstanding long-term debt is unsecured. Excluding capitalized leases and the
effect of interest rate swaps, the aggregate principal amounts of long-term debt
and the corresponding weighted-average interest rate scheduled for repayment are
as follows: 

Financing
Activities 

Debt   During 2007,
debt repayments totaled $10,183 and consisted of: 

$3,871
      related to debt repayments with a weighted-average interest rate of 6.1%,
      which included the early redemption of debt related to a put exercise on
      $1,000 of our 4.2% PURS and called debt of $500 with an interest rate of
      7.0%. 

$3,411
      related to repayments of commercial paper and other short-term bank
      borrowings. 

$1,735
      related to the early redemption of Dobson debt acquired with a par value
      of $1,599 and a weighted-average interest rate of
  9.1%. 

$904
      related to the early repayment of a Dobson long-term credit
      facility. 

$218
      related to the early redemption of a convertible note held by
      Dobson. 

$44
      related to scheduled principal payments on other debt and repayments of
      other borrowings. 

During
2007, we received net proceeds of $11,367 from the issuance of $11,499 in
long-term debt. Debt proceeds were used for general corporate purposes and parts
of the proceeds were used for repurchases of our common stock. Long-term debt
issuances consisted of: 

In
February 2008, we received net proceeds of $3,972 from the issuance of $4,000 in
long-term debt. The long-term debt issued consisted of the
following: 

58 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Debt
maturing within one year consists of the following at December 31: 

1   

Primarily
      represents borrowings, the availability of which is contingent on the
      level of cash held by some of our foreign
  subsidiaries. 

The
weighted-average interest rate on commercial paper debt at December 31,
2007 and 2006 was 4.2% and 5.3%, respectively. 

Credit Facility   We
have a five-year $10,000 credit agreement with a syndicate of investment and
commercial banks, which we have the right to increase up to an additional
$2,000, provided no event of default under the credit agreement has occurred.
The current agreement will expire in July 2011. We also have the right to
terminate, in whole or in part, amounts committed by the lenders under this
agreement in excess of any outstanding advances; however, any such terminated
commitments may not be reinstated. Advances under this agreement may be used for
general corporate purposes, including support of commercial paper borrowings and
other short-term borrowings. There is no material adverse change provision
governing the drawdown of advances under this credit agreement. This agreement
contains a negative pledge covenant, which requires that, if at any time we or a
subsidiary pledge assets or otherwise permits a lien on its properties, advances
under this agreement will be ratably secured, subject to specified exceptions.
We must maintain a debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes,
depreciation and amortization, and other modifications described in the
agreement) financial ratio covenant of not more than three-to-one as of the last
day of each fiscal quarter for the four quarters then ended. We comply with all
covenants under the agreement. We had no borrowings outstanding under committed
lines of credit as of December 31, 2007 or 2006. 

Defaults
under the agreement, which would permit the lenders to accelerate required
payment, include nonpayment of principal or interest beyond any applicable grace
period; failure by AT T or any subsidiary to pay when due other debt above a
threshold amount that results in acceleration of that debt (commonly referred to
as  cross-acceleration ) or commencement by a creditor of enforcement
proceedings within a specified period after a money judgment above a threshold
amount has become final; acquisition by any person of beneficial ownership of
more than 50% of AT T common shares or a change of more than a majority of
AT T s directors in any 24-month period other than as elected by the
remaining directors (commonly referred to as a  change-of-control  material
breaches of representations in the agreement; failure to comply with the
negative pledge or debt-to-EBITDA ratio covenants described above; failure to
comply with other covenants for a specified period after notice; failure by
AT T or certain affiliates to make certain minimum funding payments under
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA); and
specified events of bankruptcy or insolvency. 

NOTE
9. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

The
carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our long-term debt, including
current maturities, and other financial instruments, are summarized as follows
at December 31: 

The fair
values of our notes and debentures were estimated based on quoted market prices,
where available, or on the net present value method of expected future cash
flows using current interest rates. The carrying value of debt with an original
maturity of less than one year approximates market value. 

59 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The fair
value of our EchoStar note receivable was estimated based on a valuation. The
carrying amount of this note was based on the present value of cash and interest
payments, which will be accreted on the note up to the face value of $500 on a
straight-line basis through August 2008. 

Our
available-for-sale equity securities are carried at fair value, and realized
gains and losses on these equity securities were included in  Other income
(expense)   net  in the consolidated statements of income. The fair value of our
available-for-sale equity securities was principally determined based on quoted
market prices, and the carrying amount of the remaining securities approximates
fair value. 

Our
short-term investments, other short-term and long-term held-to-maturity
investments and customer deposits are recorded at amortized cost, and the
carrying amounts approximate fair values. We held other short-term marketable
securities of $1 at December 31, 2007 compared to $477 at December 31,
2006. 

Derivatives   We use
interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts and foreign currency
exchange contracts to manage our market risk changes in interest rates and
foreign exchange rates. We do not use financial instruments for trading or
speculative purposes. Each swap matches the exact maturity dates of the
underlying debt to which they are related, allowing for perfectly-effective
hedges. Each utilized forward contract matches the interest payments of the
underlying debt to which they are related, allowing for perfectly-effective
hedges. 

Interest Rate Swaps    We had fair value
interest rate swaps with a notional value of $3,250 at December 31, 2007, and
$5,050 at December 31, 2006, with a net carrying and fair value asset of $88 and
liability of $80, respectively. The net fair value liability at December 31,
2006 was comprised of a liability of $86 and an asset of $6. Included in the
fair value interest rate swap notional amount for 2006 were interest rate swaps
with a notional value of $1,800, which were acquired as a result of our
acquisition of BellSouth on December 29, 2006. These swaps were unwound in
January 2007. 

Interest Rate Foreign Currency
Swaps   We have combined interest rate foreign currency swap
agreements for Euro-denominated debt and British pound sterling-denominated
debt, which hedge our risk to both interest rate and currency movements. In
March 2007, we entered into fixed-to-fixed cross-currency swaps on
foreign-currency-denominated debt instruments with a U.S. dollar notional value
of $2,799 to hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
These hedges include initial and final exchanges of principal from fixed foreign
denominations to fixed U.S.-denominated amounts, to be exchanged at a specified
rate, which was determined by the market spot rate upon issuance. They also
include an interest rate swap of a fixed foreign-denominated rate to a fixed
U.S.-denominated interest rate. These derivatives have been designated at
inception and qualify as cash flow hedges with a net fair value of $114 at
December 31, 2007. These swaps are valued using current market quotes, which
were obtained from dealers. 

In
November 2006, we repaid the notional amount of a foreign currency swap of $636.
Upon repayment we unwound our swap asset of $284. Additionally, we repaid the
collateral associated with the swap contract of $150, which was received by us
over the term of the swap agreement. 

Interest Rate
Locks   We entered into interest rate forward contracts to
partially hedge interest expense related to our debt issuances. During 2008, we
expect to reclassify into earnings net settlement expenses of approximately $8
to $9, net of tax. The following table summarizes our interest rate lock
activity: 

Foreign Currency Forward
Contracts   We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to
manage our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates related to
foreign-currency-denominated transactions. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, our
foreign exchange contracts consisted principally of Euros, British pound
sterling, Danish krone and Japanese yen. At December 31, 2007, the notional
amounts under contract were $345, of which none were designated as net
investment hedges. At December 31, 2006, the notional amounts under contract
were $440, of which $6 were designated as net investment hedges. The remaining
contracts in both periods were not designated for accounting purposes. At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, these foreign exchange contracts had a net carrying
and fair value liability of less than $2. These contracts were valued using
current market quotes, which were obtained from independent
sources. 

60 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
10. INCOME TAXES 

S ignificant
components of our deferred tax liabilities (assets) are as follows at December
31:  

At
December 31, 2007, we had combined net operating and capital loss carryforwards
(tax effected) for federal, and for state and foreign income tax purposes of
$1,289 and $1,207, respectively, expiring through 2026. The federal net
operating loss carryforward primarily relates to the acquisitions of AT T
Wireless Services, Inc. in 2004 and Dobson in 2007. Additionally, we had federal
and state credit carryforwards of $100 and $242, respectively, expiring
primarily through 2024. 

We
recognize a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence,
it is more-likely-than-not that some portion, or all, of a deferred tax asset
will not be realized. Our valuation allowances at December 31, 2006 and 2007
relate primarily to state net operating loss carryforwards. The net increase in
the valuation allowance for 2007 results from the acquisition of Dobson and the
generation of additional state net operating losses, the ultimate realization of
which are not more-likely-than-not. Future adjustments (prior to the effective
date of FAS 141(R)) to the valuation allowance attributable to the ATTC,
BellSouth, AT T Mobility, and Dobson opening balance sheet items may be
required to be allocated to goodwill and other purchased intangibles. After the
effective date of FAS 141(R), changes to these valuation allowances may be
reflected in income tax expense. 

61 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

On
January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 (see Note 1) and, as required, we
reclassified $6,225 from net deferred tax liabilities to unrecognized tax
benefits. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recognized a $50
increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for
as a reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. A
reconciliation of the change in our unrecognized tax benefits (UTB) balance from
January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007, is as follows: 

In the
fourth quarter of 2007, we made a deposit of $1,000 related to the AT T Inc.
2000   2002 IRS examination cycle. This deposit is not included in the
reconciliation above but reduces our unrecognized tax benefits balance. Net of
this deposit, our unrecognized tax benefits balance at December 31, 2007, was
$6,579, of which $5,894 was included in  Other noncurrent liabilities  and $685
was included in  Accrued taxes  on our consolidated balance sheets. We expect to
pay $685 within one year, but we cannot reasonably estimate the timing or
amounts of additional cash payments, if any, at this time. 

A portion
of our unrecognized tax benefits relates to pre-acquisition uncertain tax
positions of ATTC, BellSouth and AT T Mobility. Future adjustments (prior to
the effective date of FAS 141(R)) to these unrecognized tax benefits may be
required to be allocated to goodwill and other purchased intangibles. After the
effective date of FAS 141(R), adjustment of these unrecognized tax benefits may
be reflected in income tax expense. 

We record
interest and penalties related to federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax
benefits in income tax expense. Accrued interest and penalties included in
unrecognized tax benefits were $1,380 and $1,678 as of January 1, 2007 and
December 31, 2007, respectively. Interest and penalties included in our
consolidated statements of income were $303 for both December 31, 2007 and
2006. 

The
Company and our subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal
jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax returns
are regularly audited and reviewed by the IRS as well as by state and foreign
taxing authorities. 

The IRS
has completed field examinations of AT T s tax returns through 2002, and all
audit periods prior to 1998 are closed for federal purposes. We were unable to
reach agreement with the IRS on one issue related to our 1998 and 1999 tax
returns and, as a result, we have filed a refund suit in U.S. District Court. We
are engaged with the IRS Appeals Division (Appeals) in settling our 2000   2002
returns and may reach a resolution of this examination cycle during the next 12
months. At this time, we are not able to determine the impact that resolution
may have on our unrecognized tax benefits. The IRS is currently examining the
AT T 2003   2005 tax returns, and we expect their fieldwork to be completed
during 2008. 

62 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The IRS
has completed the examination of all acquired entity tax returns through 2003
(ATTC through 2004) and, with the exception of BellSouth, all years through 2001
are closed. We expect to settle the ATTC 2005 examination within the next 12
months with an immaterial impact on our unrecognized tax benefits. Appeals has
issued BellSouth an assessment for years 1999   2001, which was paid during the
second quarter, and we are reviewing our options with this case. 

The
components of income tax expense are as follows: 

A
reconciliation of income tax expense and the amount computed by applying the
statutory federal income tax rate (35%) to income before income taxes, income
from discontinued operations, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of
accounting changes is as follows: 

In
December 2005, we reached an agreement with the IRS to settle certain claims,
principally related to the utilization of capital losses and tax credits for
years 1997   1999. Included in the settlement was relief from previous
assessments and agreement on multiple items challenged by the IRS in the course
of routine audits. As we had previously paid the assessments in full and filed
refund claims with the IRS, the settlement resulted in our recognition of
approximately $902 of reduced income tax expense in 2005. 

Effects
of international operations include items such as foreign tax credits, sales of
foreign investments and the effects of undistributed earnings from international
operations. We do not provide deferred taxes on the undistributed earnings of
subsidiaries operating outside the United States that have been or are intended
to be permanently reinvested. The amount of undistributed earnings for which we
have not recorded deferred taxes is not material. 

NOTE
11. PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS 

Pension Benefits  

      Substantially
all of our U.S. employees are covered by one of our noncontributory pension and
death benefit plans. Many of our management employees participate in pension
plans that have a traditional pension formula (i.e., a stated percentage of
employees  adjusted career income) and a frozen cash balance or defined lump sum
formula. In 2005, the management pension plan for those employees was amended to
freeze benefit accruals previously earned under a cash balance formula. Each
employee s existing cash balance continues to earn interest at a variable annual
rate. After this change, those management employees, at retirement, may elect to
receive the portion of their pension benefit derived under the cash balance or
defined lump sum as a lump sum or an annuity. The remaining pension benefit, if
any, will be paid as an annuity if its value exceeds a stated monthly amount.
Management employees of former ATTC, BellSouth and AT T Mobility participate
in cash balance pension plans. Nonmanagement employees  pension benefits are
generally calculated using one of two formulas: benefits are based on a flat
dollar amount per year according to job classification or are calculated under a
cash balance plan that is based on an initial cash balance amount and a
negotiated annual pension band and interest credits. Most nonmanagement
employees can elect to receive their pension benefits in either a lump sum
payment or an annuity. 

63 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

In April
2007, we announced a one-time increase to certain retiree pension annuity
payments, an average increase of 3.2% by group of retiree count. This pension
adjustment is for pre-1996 retirees and is reflected below as a plan
amendment. 

At
December 31, 2007, defined pension plans formerly sponsored by Ameritech
Publishing Ventures and AT T Mobility were merged in the AT T Pension
Benefit Plan. At December 31, 2006, certain defined pension plans formerly
sponsored by ATTC and AT T Mobility were also merged into the AT T
Pension Benefit Plan. 

Postretirement
Benefits  

      We
provide a variety of medical, dental and life insurance benefits to certain
retired employees under various plans and accrue actuarially-determined
postretirement benefit costs as active employees earn these
benefits. 

Obligations
and Funded Status 

      For
defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the  projected benefit
obligation,  the actuarial present value, as of our December 31 measurement
date, of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee
service rendered to that date. The amount of benefit to be paid depends on a
number of future events incorporated into the pension benefit formula, including
estimates of the average life of employees/survivors and average years of
service rendered. It is measured based on assumptions concerning future interest
rates and future employee compensation levels. 

For
postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the  accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation,  the actuarial present value as of a date of
all future benefits attributed under the terms of the postretirement benefit
plan to employee service rendered to that date. 

In
conjunction with the 2006 BellSouth acquisition, AT T Mobility became a
wholly-owned subsidiary. BellSouth and AT T Mobility sponsored
noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of their
U.S. employees. In accordance with GAAP, when an employer is acquired as part of
a merger, any excess of projected benefit obligation over the plan assets is
recognized as a liability and any excess of plan assets over the projected
benefit obligation is recognized as a plan asset. The recognition of a new
liability or a new asset by the acquirer, at the date of the merger, results in
the elimination of any (a) previously existing unrecognized net gain or loss,
(b) unrecognized prior service cost and (c) unrecognized net transition
obligation. In addition, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations are
to be measured using actuarial assumptions and terms of the substantive plans,
as determined by the purchaser. As such, and consistent with our practice, we
did not account for the annual dollar value cap of medical and dental benefits
in the value of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for the
BellSouth or AT T Mobility postretirement benefit plans (i.e., we assumed
the cap would be waived in the future). All other significant weighted-average
assumptions used were determined based on our policies that are discussed below
in  Assumptions.  

Our
December 31, 2006, obligations and funded status include benefit obligations of
$11,013 for pension benefits and $11,461 for postretirement benefits, and plan
assets of $17,628 and $5,269, respectively, related to BellSouth. Additionally,
our December 31, 2006, obligations and funded status include benefit obligations
of $635 for pension benefits and $209 for postretirement benefits, and plan
assets of $548 and $0, respectively, related to AT T Mobility. 

64 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
following table presents this reconciliation and shows the change in the
projected benefit obligation for the years ended December 31: 

The
following table presents the change in the value of plan assets for the years
ended December 31 and the plans  funded status at December 31: 

1   

At
      our discretion, certain postretirement benefits are paid from AT T
      cash accounts and do not reduce Voluntary Employee Beneficiary

Association
      (VEBA) assets. Future benefit    payments
      may be made from VEBA trusts and thus reduce those asset
      balances. 

2

Funded
      status is not indicative of our ability to pay ongoing pension benefits
      nor of our obligation to fund retirement trusts. Required  

                pension
      funding is determined in accordance   with
      ERISA regulations. 

Amounts
recognized on our consolidated balance sheets at December 31 are listed
below: 

1  Included
in  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities.  

       2  Included
in  Postemployment benefit obligation.  

65 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Amounts
included in our accumulated other comprehensive income that have not yet been
recognized in net periodic benefit cost at December 31 are listed
below: 

The
accumulated benefit obligation for our pension plans represents the actuarial
present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation as of a
certain date and does not include an assumption about future compensation
levels. The accumulated benefit obligation for our pension plans was $51,357 at
December 31, 2007, and $53,662 at December 31, 2006. 

Net
Periodic Benefit Cost and Other Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive
Income 

      Our
combined net pension and postretirement cost recognized in our consolidated
statements of income was $1,078, $1,635 and $1,336 for the years ended December
31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. 

The
following tables present the components of net periodic benefit obligation cost
and other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other
comprehensive income: 

Net
Periodic Benefit Cost 

Other
Changes in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Other Comprehensive
Income 

The
estimated net loss and prior service cost for pension benefits that will be
amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit
cost over the next fiscal year are $7 and $134, respectively. The estimated
prior service benefit for postretirement benefits that will be amortized from
accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the
next fiscal year is $360. 

66 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Assumptions 

      In
determining the projected benefit obligation and the net pension and
postemployment benefit cost, we used the following significant weighted-average
assumptions: 

1   

Discount
      rate in effect for determining net cost (benefit) of BellSouth and
      AT T Mobility pension and postretirement plans for the two-day period
      ended December 31, 2006, was 6.00%. The discount rate in effect for
      determining net cost (benefit) of ATTC pension and postretirement plans
      for the 43-day period ended December 31, 2005 was
  5.75%. 

Approximately
10% of pension and postretirement costs are capitalized as part of construction
labor, providing a small reduction in the net expense recorded. While we will
continue our cost-control efforts, certain factors, such as investment returns,
depend largely on trends in the U.S. securities markets and the general U.S.
economy. In particular, uncertainty in the securities markets and U.S. economy
could result in investment returns less than those assumed and a decline in the
value of plan assets used in pension and postretirement calculations, which
under GAAP we will recognize over the next several years. Should the securities
markets decline or medical and prescription drug costs increase at a rate
greater than assumed, we would expect increasing annual combined net pension and
postretirement costs for the next several years. Additionally, should actual
experience differ from actuarial assumptions, combined net pension and
postretirement cost would be affected in future years. 

Discount Rate   Our
assumed discount rate of 6.50% at December 31, 2007 reflects the hypothetical
rate at which the projected benefit obligations could be effectively settled or
paid out to participants on that date. We determined our discount rate based on
a range of factors, including a yield curve comprised of the rates of return on
high-quality, fixed-income corporate bonds available at the measurement date and
the related expected duration for the obligations. For the year ended December
31, 2007, we increased our discount rate by 0.50%, resulting in a decrease in
our pension plan benefit obligation of $2,353 and a decrease in our
post-retirement benefit obligation of $2,492. For the year ended December 31,
2006, we increased our discount rate by 0.25%, resulting in a decrease in our
pension plan benefit obligation of $1,040 and a decrease in our postretirement
benefit obligation of $1,030. Should actual experience differ from actuarial
assumptions, the projected pension benefit obligation and net pension cost, and
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and postretirement benefit cost
would be affected in future years. 

Expected Long-Term Rate of
Return   Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of
8.50% for 2008 and 2007 reflects the average rate of earnings expected on the
funds invested, or to be invested, to provide for the benefits included in the
projected benefit obligations. We consider many factors that include, but are
not limited to, historical returns on plan assets, current market information on
long-term returns (e.g., long-term bond rates) and current and target asset
allocations between asset categories. The target asset allocation is determined
based on consultations with external investment advisors. This assumption, which
is based on our long-term expectations of market returns in future years, is one
of the most significant of the weighted-average assumptions used to determine
our actuarial estimates of pension and postretirement benefit expense. If all
other factors were to remain unchanged, we expect that a 1% decrease in the
expected long-term rate of return would cause 2008 combined pension and
postretirement cost to increase $814 over 2007. 

Composite Rate of Compensation
Increase   Our expected composite rate of compensation increase
of 4% reflects the long-term average rate of salary increases. 

Health Care Cost
Trend   Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed
based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely
long-term trends. Additionally, to recognize the disproportionate growth in
prescription drug costs, we have developed separate trend assumptions for
medical and prescription drugs. In addition to the health care cost trend, we
assume an annual 3% growth in administrative expenses and an annual 3% growth in
dental claims. Due to benefit design changes in recent years (e.g. increased
co-pays and deductibles for prescription drugs and certain medical services), we
continue to experience better than expected claims experience. The following
table provides our assumed average health care cost trend based on the
demographics of plan participants. 

67 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

A one
percentage-point change in the assumed combined medical and dental cost trend
rate would have the following effects: 

One
      Percentage- 

                Point
      Increase 

One
      Percentage- 

                Point
      Decrease 

Increase
      (decrease) in total of service and interest cost
components 

$  
              438  

$  
              (351  
              )  

Increase
      (decrease) in accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation 

4,314  

(3,583  
              )  

For the
majority of our labor contracts that contain an annual dollar value cap for the
purpose of determining contributions required from nonmanagement retirees who
retire during the term of the labor contract, we have waived the cap during the
relevant contract periods and thus not collected contributions from those
retirees, and we have similarly waived the cap for nonmanagement retirees who
retired prior to inception of the labor contract. Therefore, in accordance with
the substantive plan provisions required in accounting for postretirement
benefits under GAAP, we do not account for the cap in the value of our
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (i.e., for GAAP purposes, we
assumed the cap would be waived for all future contract periods). 

Plan
Assets 

      Plan
assets consist primarily of private and public equity, government and corporate
bonds, and real estate. The asset allocations of the pension plans are
maintained to meet ERISA requirements. Any plan contributions, as determined by
ERISA regulations, are made to a pension trust for the benefit of plan
participants. We maintain VEBA trusts to partially fund postretirement benefits;
however, there are no ERISA or regulatory requirements that these postretirement
benefit plans be funded annually. 

The
principal investment objectives are: to ensure the availability of funds to pay
pension and postretirement benefits as they become due under a broad range of
future economic scenarios; to maximize long-term investment return with an
acceptable level of risk based on our pension and postretirement obligations;
and to be broadly diversified across and within the capital markets to insulate
asset values against adverse experience in any one market. Each asset class has
a broadly diversified style. Substantial biases toward any particular investing
style or type of security are sought to be avoided by managing the aggregation
of all accounts with portfolio benchmarks. Asset and benefit obligation
forecasting studies are conducted periodically, generally every two to three
years, or when significant changes have occurred in market conditions, benefits,
participant demographics or funded status. Decisions regarding investment policy
are made with an understanding of the effect of asset allocation on funded
status, future contributions and projected expenses. The current asset
allocation policy for the pension plan is based on a study completed during
2007. The asset allocation policy for the VEBA assets is based on our legacy
operations, and the pre-acquisition allocation policies of ATTC and BellSouth.
It is our intention to complete an asset allocation study during
2008. 

68 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
plans  weighted-average asset target and actual allocations as a percentage of
plan assets, including the notional exposure of future contracts by asset
categories at December 31 are as follows: 

At
December 31, 2007, AT T securities represented less than 0.5% of assets held
by our pension plans and VEBA trusts. 

Estimated
Future Benefit Payments 

      Expected
benefit payments are estimated using the same assumptions used in determining
our benefit obligation at December 31, 2007. Because benefit payments will
depend on future employment and compensation levels, average years employed and
average life spans, among other factors, changes in any of these factors could
significantly affect these expected amounts. The following table provides
expected benefit payments under our pension and postretirement
plans: 

Supplemental Retirement
Plans  

      We also
provide senior- and middle-management employees with nonqualified, unfunded
supplemental retirement and savings plans. While these plans are unfunded, we
have assets in a designated nonbankruptcy remote trust that are used to provide
for these benefits. These plans include supplemental pension benefits as well as
compensation deferral plans, some of which include a corresponding match by us
based on a percentage of the compensation deferral. 

We use
the same significant assumptions for the discount rate and composite rate of
compensation increase used in determining the projected benefit obligation and
the net pension and postemployment benefit cost. The following tables provide
the plans  benefit obligations and fair value of assets at December 31 and the
components of the supplemental retirement pension benefit cost. The net amounts
recorded as  Other noncurrent liabilities  on our consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $2,301 and $2,470,
respectively. 

The
following table provides information for our supplemental retirement plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets: 

69 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
following tables present the components of net periodic benefit cost and other
changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive
income: 

In
addition to the net supplemental retirement pension cost in the table above, we
recorded charges of $32 due to accelerated benefit expenses and settlement
charges related to retirements during 2007. 

The
estimated net loss and prior service cost for our supplemental retirement plan
benefits that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into
net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are $18 and $6,
respectively. 

Deferred
compensation expense was $106 in 2007, $39 in 2006 and $46 in 2005. Our deferred
compensation liability, included in  Other noncurrent liabilities,  was $1,116
at December 31, 2007 and $996 at December 31, 2006. 

Non-U.S.
Plans 

      As part
of our ATTC acquisition, we acquired certain non-U.S. operations that have
varying types of pension programs providing benefits for substantially all of
their employees and, to a limited group, postemployment benefits. As described
earlier and in accordance with FAS 87, we eliminated previously-existing
unrecognized net gains or losses, unrecognized prior service costs and
unrecognized net transition obligations. The following table provides the plans 
benefit obligations and fair value of assets and a statement of the funded
status at December 31. 

The net
amounts recorded as  Postemployment benefit obligation  on our consolidated
balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $(48) and $158,
respectively. 

The
following table provides information for certain non-U.S. defined-benefit
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan
assets: 

70 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

In
determining the projected benefit obligation for certain non-U.S.
defined-benefit pension plans, we used the following significant
weighted-average assumptions: 

The
following tables present the components of net periodic benefit cost and other
changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive
income: 

The
estimated net gain that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive
income into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year is
$3. 

Contributory
Savings Plans 

      We
maintain contributory savings plans that cover substantially all employees.
Under the savings plans, we match in cash or company stock a stated percentage
of eligible employee contributions, subject to a specified ceiling. There are no
debt-financed shares held by the Employee Stock Ownership Plans, allocated or
unallocated. 

Our match
of employee contributions to the savings plans is fulfilled with purchases of
our stock on the open market or company cash. Benefit cost is based on the cost
of shares or units allocated to participating employees  accounts and was $633,
$412 and $334 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005. 

71 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
12. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 

We
account for stock-based compensation using FAS 123(R). By using the modified
retrospective method to adopt FAS 123(R), we increased the amount of excess tax
benefits we had previously recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. Our
accounting under FAS 123(R) may affect our ability to fully realize the value
shown on our balance sheet of deferred tax assets associated with compensation
expense. Full realization of these deferred tax assets requires stock options to
be exercised at a price equaling or exceeding the sum of the strike price plus
the fair value of the option at the grant date. The provisions of FAS 123(R) do
not allow a valuation allowance to be recorded unless the company s future
taxable income is expected to be insufficient to recover the asset. Accordingly,
there can be no assurance that the current stock price of our common shares will
rise to levels sufficient to realize the entire tax benefit currently reflected
in our balance sheet. However, to the extent that additional tax benefits are
generated in excess of the deferred taxes associated with compensation expense
previously recognized, the potential future impact on income would be
reduced. 

At
December 31, 2007, we had various stock-based compensation plans, which are
described below. The compensation cost recognized for those plans for the years
ended December 31 was $720 in 2007, $301 in 2006 and $143 in 2005 and is
included in  Selling, general and administrative  in our consolidated statements
of income. The total income tax benefit recognized in the consolidated
statements of income for stock-based compensation arrangements for the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $275, $116 and $54. 

Under our
various plans, senior and other management and nonmanagement employees and
nonemployee directors have received stock options, performance stock units and
other nonvested stock units. Stock options issued through December 31, 2007
carry exercise prices equal to the market price of our stock at the date of
grant. Beginning in 1994 and ending in 1999, certain employees of AT T
Teleholdings, Inc. (formerly known as Ameritech) were awarded grants of
nonqualified stock options with dividend equivalents. During 2006, we amended
our stock option plan to vest upon the date of grant. Prior to 2006, depending
on the grant, stock options vesting could occur up to five years from the date
of grant, with most options vesting ratably over three years. Performance stock
units, which are nonvested stock units, are granted to key employees based upon
the stock price at the date of grant and are awarded in the form of common stock
and cash at the end of a three-year period, subject to the achievement of
certain performance goals. Other nonvested stock units are valued at the market
price of our stock at the date of grant and vest over a three- to five-year
period. As of December 31, 2007, we were authorized to issue up to 133 million
shares of stock (in addition to shares that may be issued upon exercise of
outstanding options or upon vesting of performance stock units or other
nonvested stock units) to officers, employees and directors pursuant to these
various plans. 

The
compensation cost that has been charged against income for our stock-based
compensation plans is as follows: 

The
estimated fair value of the options when granted is amortized to expense over
the options  vesting or required service period. The fair value for these
options was estimated at the date of grant based on the expected life of the
option and historical exercise experience, using a Black-Scholes option pricing
model with the following weighted-average assumptions: 

72 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

A summary
of option activity as of December 31, 2007, and changes during the period then
ended, is presented below (shares in millions): 

1   

Aggregate
      intrinsic value includes only those options with intrinsic value (options
      where the exercise price is below the market
  price). 

The
weighted-average fair value of each option granted during the year ended
December 31 was $7.71 in 2007, $4.78 in 2006 and $3.39 in 2005. The total
intrinsic value of options exercised during the year was $667 in 2007, $134 in
2006 and $24 in 2005. 

It is our
policy to satisfy share option exercises using our treasury shares. The actual
tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises from these
arrangements for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 totaled $77,
$28 and $9. 

A summary
of the status of our nonvested stock units, which includes performance stock
units as of December 31, 2007, and changes during the year then ended is
presented as follows (shares in millions): 

As of
December 31, 2007, there was $422 of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to nonvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted. That cost is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.58 years. The
total fair value of shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
and 2005 was $345, $246 and $38. 

NOTE
13. STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

From time
to time, we repurchase shares of common stock for distribution through our
employee benefit plans or in connection with certain acquisitions. In December
2007, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 400 million
shares of our common stock. This authorization replaced previous authorizations
and will expire on December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2007, we had not
repurchased any shares under this program. 

73 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
14. ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

No
customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 or
2005. 

NOTE
15. TRANSACTIONS WITH AT T MOBILITY 

Prior to
our December 29, 2006 acquisition of BellSouth (see Note 2), we and BellSouth,
the two owners of AT T Mobility, each made a subordinated loan to AT T
Mobility (shareholder loans) and entered into a revolving credit agreement with
AT T Mobility to provide short-term financing for operations. Following the
BellSouth acquisition both our shareholder loan and revolving credit agreement
with AT T Mobility were consolidated and do not appear on our consolidated
balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The shareholder loan carries an
annual 6.0% interest rate and we earned interest income on this loan of $246
during 2006 and $311 in 2005. 

Prior to
our BellSouth acquisition, we generated revenues of $1,466 in 2006 and $869 in
2005 for services sold to AT T Mobility. These revenues were primarily from
access and long-distance services sold to AT T Mobility on a wholesale basis
and commissions revenue related to customers added through AT T sales
sources. 

74 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, continued  

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
16. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 

In
addition to issues specifically discussed elsewhere, we are party to numerous
lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and other matters arising in the ordinary
course of business. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies,  in evaluating these matters on
an ongoing basis, we take into account amounts already accrued on the balance
sheet. In our opinion, although the outcomes of these proceedings are uncertain,
they should not have a material adverse effect on our financial position,
results of operations or cash flows. 

We have
contractual obligations to purchase certain goods or services from various other
parties. Our purchase obligations are expected to be approximately $2,461 in
2008, $2,237 in total for 2009 and 2010, $1,197 in total for 2011 and 2012 and
$471 in total for years thereafter. 

NOTE
17. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

The
following table represents our quarterly financial results: 

1   

Quarterly
      earnings per share impacts may not add to full-year earnings per share
      impacts due to the difference in weighted-average shares   for
      the quarters versus the weighted-average shares for the
    year. 

75 

Report
of Management 

The
consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. The integrity and objectivity of the
data in these financial statements, including estimates and judgments relating
to matters not concluded by year-end, are the responsibility of management, as
is all other information included in the Annual Report, unless otherwise
indicated. 

The
financial statements of AT T Inc. (AT T) have been audited by
Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm. Management has made available to Ernst   Young LLP all
of AT T s financial records and related data, as well as the minutes of
stockholders  and directors  meetings. Furthermore, management believes that all
representations made to Ernst   Young LLP during its audit
were valid and appropriate. 

Management
maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by AT T is recorded, processed,
summarized, accumulated and communicated to its management, including its
principal executive and principal financial officers, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure, and reported within the time periods specified by
the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms. 

Management
also seeks to ensure the objectivity and integrity of its financial data by the
careful selection of its managers, by organizational arrangements that provide
an appropriate division of responsibility and by communication programs aimed at
ensuring that its policies, standards and managerial authorities are understood
throughout the organization. 

The Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors meets periodically with management, the
internal auditors and the independent auditors to review the manner in which
they are performing their respective responsibilities and to discuss auditing,
internal accounting controls and financial reporting matters. Both the internal
auditors and the independent auditors periodically meet alone with the Audit
Committee and have access to the Audit Committee at any time. 

Assessment
of Internal Control 

      The
management of AT T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or
15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AT T s internal control
system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company s management
and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of
published financial statements. 

AT T
management assessed the effectiveness of the company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, it used
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework . Based on its assessment, AT T management believes that, as
of December 31, 2007, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is
effective based on those criteria. 

Ernst
  Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited
the financial statements included in this Annual Report, has issued an
attestation report on the company s internal control over financial reporting.
The attestation report is included on Page  82 . 

/s/ Randall
Stephenson                                                                             /s/ Richard G.
Lindner  

      Randall
Stephenson                                                                               Richard G.
Lindner 

      Chairman
of the
Board,                                                                           
Senior Executive Vice President and 

      Chief
Executive Officer and
President                                                   Chief
Financial Officer 

76 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board
of Directors and Stockholders 

      AT T
Inc. 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AT T Inc. (the
Company) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These financial statements are
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In our
opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. 

As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2007 the
Company changed its method of accounting for income taxes. 

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established
in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 14,
2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 

San
Antonio, Texas 

      February
14, 2008 

77 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting 

The Board
of Directors and Stockholders 

      AT T
Inc. 

We have
audited AT T Inc. s (the Company) internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting,
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit. 

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion. 

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on   the COSO
criteria. 

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company
as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements
of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2007, of the Company and our report dated
February 14, 2008, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 

San
Antonio, Texas 

      February
14, 2008 

78

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 45
 ex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF AT&T INC

ex21.htm 

Exhibit 21 

PRINCIPAL
      SUBSIDIARIES OF 

AT T
      INC., AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2007 

Legal Name  

State of
      Incorporation/Formation  

Conducts Business Under  

Illinois
      Bell Telephone 

                  Company 

Illinois 

AT T
      Illinois; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Indiana
      Bell Telephone 

                  Company,
      Incorporated 

Indiana 

AT T
      Indiana; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Michigan
      Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

Michigan 

AT T
      Michigan; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Nevada
      Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

Nevada 

AT T
      Nevada; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Pacific
      Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

California 

AT T
      California; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale; 

                  AT T
      DataComm 

AT T
      International, Inc. 

Delaware 

AT T
      International 

SBC
      Internet Services, Inc. 

California 

AT T
      Internet Services; 

                  AT T
      Entertainment Services 

SBC
      Long Distance, LLC 

Delaware 

AT T
      Long Distance 

AT T
      Teleholdings, Inc 

Delaware 

AT T
      Midwest; 

                  AT T
      West; 

                  AT T
      East 

Southwestern
      Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

Missouri 

AT T
      Arkansas; AT T Kansas; 

                  AT T
      Missouri; AT T Oklahoma; 

                  AT T
      Texas; AT T Southwest; 

                  AT T
      DataComm; AT T Wholesale 

Southwestern
      Bell 

                  Yellow
      Pages, Inc. 

Missouri 

AT T
      Advertising   Publishing 

Sterling
      Commerce, Inc. 

Delaware 

same 

The
      Ohio Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

Ohio 

AT T
      Ohio; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

The
      Southern New 

                  England
      Telephone Company 

Connecticut 

AT T
      Connecticut; 

                  AT T
      Woodbury 

Wisconsin
      Bell, Inc. 

Wisconsin 

AT T
      Wisconsin; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Exhibit
21 

Legal Name  

State of
      Incorporation/Formation  

Conducts Business Under  

AT T
      Corp. 

New
      York 

AT T
      Corp; AT  

                  Conference
      Operator-AT  

                  Connect
      N'Save; ACC Business; AT T Worldnet Services; AT T Worldnet;
      AT T Wholesale; Lucky Dog Phone Co.; SmarTalk; GTI; 

                  prepaidserviceguide.com; 

                  ConQuest;
      CQTalk!; 

                  UnispeakSMService; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale; 

                  AT T
      Communications of Los Angeles; AT T Communications of San Diego;
      AT T Communications of San Francisco 

AT T
      Communications of California, Inc. 

California 

same 

AT T
      Communications of the Mountain States, Inc. 

Colorado 

Conquest;
      SmarTalk; CQTalk! 

AT T
      Communications of NJ, LP 

Delaware 

same 

AT T
      Communications of New York, Inc. 

New
      York 

same 

AT T
      Communications of Illinois, Inc. 

Illinois 

same 

AT T
      Communications of the Southern States, LLC 

Delaware 

ACC
      Business; SmarTalk; 

                  prepaidserviceguide.com; 

                  GTI;
      AT  Conquest; CQTalk!; Lucky Dog Phone Co. 

Teleport
      Communications New York 

New
      York 

same 

BellSouth
      Corporation 

Georgia 

AT T
      South 

BellSouth
      Telecommunications, Inc. 

Georgia 

AT T
      Southeast 

                  AT T
      Alabama 

                  AT T
      Florida 

                  AT T
      Georgia 

                  AT T
      Louisiana 

                  AT T
      Kentucky 

                  AT T
      Mississippi 

                  AT T
      North Carolina 

                  AT T
      South Carolina 

                  AT T
      Tennessee 

Exhibit
21 

Legal Name  

State of
      Incorporation/Formation  

Conducts Business Under  

AT T
      Mobility LLC 

Delaware 

AT T
      Mobility 

Cingular
      Wireless II, LLC 

Delaware 

AT T
      Mobility 

New
      Cingular Wireless Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

AT T
      Mobility 

Dobson
      Communications Corporation 

Oklahoma 

same 

Dobson
      Cellular Systems, Inc. 

Oklahoma 

Cellular
      One 

American
      Cellular Corporation 

Delaware 

Cellular
      One 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 46
 ex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ex23.htm 

Consent
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of
AT T Inc. (AT T) of our reports dated February 14, 2008, with respect to
the consolidated financial statements of AT T and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting of AT T, included in the 2007
Annual Report to Stockholders of AT T. 

Our
audits also included the financial statement schedules of AT T listed in
Item 15(a). These schedules are the responsibility of AT T's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as
to which the date is February 25, 2008, the financial statement schedules
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein. 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration
Statements: 

(9) 

Registration
      Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-139749) pertaining to the BellSouth Retirement
      Savings Plan and other certain BellSouth plans;
  and 

(10) 

Registration
      Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-141864) pertaining to the AT T Inc.
      Savings Plan, AT T Inc. Savings and Security Plan, AT T Corp. Long
      Term Savings Plan for Management Employees, AT T Corp. Long Term
      Savings and Security Plan, AT T Corp. Retirement Savings and Profit
      Sharing Plan, AT T of Puerto Rico, Inc. Long Term Savings Plan for
      Management Employees, and AT T of Puerto Rico, Inc. Long Term Savings
      and Security Plan 

of our
reports dated February 14, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements of AT T and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting of AT T, incorporated herein by reference, and our report included
in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedules of
AT T included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of AT T for the year
ended December 31, 2007. 

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP 

San
Antonio, Texas 

      February
25, 2008  

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 47
 ex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

ex24.htm 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer
and a director of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug, Richard G. Lindner, John J.
Stephens,  or any one of them, all of the City of San Antonio and
State of Texas, his attorneys for him and in his name, place and stead, and in
each of his offices and capacities in the Corporation, to execute and file such
annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments
thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and
necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing
thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall
lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Randall L.
Stephenson  

      Randall
L. Stephenson 

      Chairman
of the Board 

      and Chief
Executive Officer 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Gilbert F.
Amelio  

      Gilbert
F. Amelio 

      Director 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ William F. Aldinger
III  

      William
F. Aldinger III 

      Director 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Reuben V.
Anderson  

      Reuben V.
Anderson 

      Director 

      POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ James H.
Blanchard  

      James H.
Blanchard 

      Director 

      POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ August A. Busch
III  

      August A.
Busch III 

      Director 

      POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ James P.
Kelly  

      James P.
Kelly 

      Director 

       POWER
OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Jon C.
Madonna  

      Jon C.
Madonna 

      Director 

      POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ John B.
McCoy  

      John B.
McCoy 

      Lead
Director 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Charles F.
Knight  

      Charles
F. Knight 

      Director 

      POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Lynn M.
Martin  

      Lynn M.
Martin 

      Director 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Mary S.
Metz  

      Mary S.
Metz 

      Director 

      POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Toni
Rembe  

      Toni
Rembe 

      Director 

      POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Joyce M.
Roch   

      Joyce M.
Roch  

      Director 

      POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st  day of February
2008. 

/s/ Laura D'Andrea
Tyson  

      Laura
D'Andrea Tyson 

      Director 

      POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 1st day of February 2008. 

/s/ Patricia P.
Upton  

      Patricia
P. Upton 

      Director 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 48
 ex31_1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

ex31_1.htm 

Exhibit
31.1 

CERTIFICATION   

I,
Randall Stephenson, certify that: 

1.   

I
      have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of AT T
  Inc.; 

2.   

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3.   

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4.   

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
  have: 

a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5.   

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:  February 27,
2008 

/s/
      Randall Stephenson 

Randall
Stephenson 

      Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer 

      and
President 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 49
 ex31_2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

ex31_2.htm 

Exhibit
31.2 

CERTIFICATION   

I,
Richard G. Lindner, certify that: 

1.   

I
      have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of AT T
  Inc.; 

2.   

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3.   

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4.   

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
  have: 

a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5.   

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:  February 27,
2008 

/s/
      Richard G. Lindner 

Richard
G. Lindner 

      Senior
Executive Vice President 

           and
Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 50
 ex32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

ex32.htm 

Certification of Periodic
Financial Reports   

Pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, each of the undersigned officers of AT T Inc.
(the  Company ) hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company. 

February 27,
2008                                                                                         February 27,
2008 

By:    
       /s/ Randall
      Stephenson   
               By:  
       /s/ Richard G.
      Lindner   

Randall
      Stephenson 

Richard G.
      Lindner 

Chairman of
      the Board, Chief Executive Officer 

Senior
      Executive Vice President 

and President 

and Chief Financial Officer 

The
foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure
document.  This certification shall not be deemed  filed  for purposes
of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ) or
otherwise subject to liability under that section.  This certification
shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the
Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act except to the extent this Exhibit 32
is expressly and specifically incorporated by reference in any such
filing. 

A signed
original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required
by Section 906, has been provided to AT T Inc. and will be retained by
AT T Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

<EX-13>
 52
 ex13.pdf
 AT&T INC. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT COURTESY COPY

</EX-13>

