<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090225_10-K_edgar_data_732717_0000732717-09-000007_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>10683535</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1908270</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1562679</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4707620</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>368</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>35</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000732717-09-000007.hdr.sgml : 20090225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090225170141
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000732717-09-000007
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		40
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20090225
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AT&T INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000732717
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (NO RADIO TELEPHONE) [4813]
		IRS NUMBER:				431301883
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08610
		FILM NUMBER:		09634511

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		208 S. AKARD ST
		STREET 2:		ATTN :  ANDREW LIBERA
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75202
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2108214105

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		208 S. AKARD ST
		STREET 2:		ATTN :  ANDREW LIBERA
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75202

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950501

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FIXtiVsuUIJeK1KUGhH6+0Z21kdK7UvrgccLiYxOgBvrjCuTDN2WP6Xz8wB+9cdo
 l0ehj4Uo7q9jxJfDZavBtg==

 0000732717-09-000007.txt : 20090225

10-K
 1
 ye10k08.htm
 AT&T INC. 2008 FORM 10-K

ye10k08.htm 

FORM
10-K  

UNITED
STATES 

          SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

          Washington,
D.C. 20549 

(Mark
      One) 

For the transition period
from                
to  

Commission
File Number:  1-8610 

AT T INC.  

Incorporated
under the laws of the State of Delaware 

      I.R.S.
Employer Identification Number 43-1301883 

208 S.
Akard St., Dallas, Texas, 75202 

      Telephone
Number 210-821-4105 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: (See attached Schedule
A) 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None. 

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes [X]   No
[   ] 

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
[   ]   No [X] 

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes [X]   No [   ] 

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See
definition of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller
reporting company  in Rule 12-b2 of the Exchange Act. 

Large
      accelerated filer [X] 

Accelerated
      filer [   ] 

Non-accelerated
      filer [   ] 

Smaller
      reporting company
[   ] 

(Do not
check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes [   ]   No
[X] 

Based on
the closing price of $33.69 per share on June 30, 2008, the aggregate market
value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates was
$198.5 billion. 

At
January 31, 2009, common shares outstanding were 5,893,307,211. 

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

(1) 

Portions
      of AT T Inc. s Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
      December 31, 2008 (Parts I and
II). 

(2) 

Portions
      of AT T Inc. s Notice of 2009 Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated
      on or about March 11, 2009 to be filed within the period permitted under
      General Instruction G(3) (Parts III and
IV). 

SCHEDULE
A 

Securities
Registered Pursuant To Section 12(b) Of The Act: 

Name
      of each exchange 

Title of each class  

on which registered  

Common
      Shares (Par Value $1.00 Per Share) 

New
      York Stock Exchange 

6.375%
      Forty-Nine Year AT T Inc. 

New
      York Stock Exchange 

Senior
      Notes, Due February 12, 2056 

6.125% AT T Inc.  

Global Notes, Due April 2, 2015  

New York Stock
Exchange  

TABLE
OF CONTENTS 

Item 

Page 

PART
      I 

1. 

Business 

1 

1A. 

Risk
      Factors 

9 

2. 

Properties 

10 

3. 

Legal
      Proceedings 

10 

4. 

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

10 

Executive
      Officers of the Registrant 

11 

PART
      II 

5. 

Market
      for Registrant s Common Equity, Related  Stockholder
      Matters 

                      and
      Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

12 

6. 

Selected
      Financial Data 

12 

7. 

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 

                        and Results of
      Operations 

12 

7A. 

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

12 

8. 

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data 

12 

9. 

Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting 

                        and Financial
      Disclosure 

13 

9A. 

Controls
      and Procedures 

13 

9B. 

Other
      Information 

13 

PART
      III 

10. 

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

14 

11. 

Executive
      Compensation 

14 

12. 

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 

                      Management
      and Related Stockholder Matters 

15 

13. 

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence 

16 

14. 

Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services 

16 

PART
      IV 

15. 

Exhibits
      and Financial Statement Schedules 

16 

AT T
      Inc. 

PART
I 

ITEM
1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

AT T
Inc. ( AT T,   we  or the  Company ) is a holding company incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive
offices at  208 S. Akard St.,
Dallas Texas, 75202  (telephone number 210-821-4105). We maintain an
Internet website at www.att.com. (This website address is for information only
and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any website
information into this document.)  We make available, free of charge,
on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make
available on that website, and in print, if any stockholder or other person so
requests, our code of business conduct and ethics entitled  Code of Ethics 
applicable to all employees and Directors, our  Corporate Governance
Guidelines,  and the charters for all committees of our Board of Directors,
including the Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Governance and Nominating.
Any changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our Code of Ethics for senior
financial officers, executive officers or Directors will be posted on that
website. 

History 

      AT T,
formerly known as SBC Communications Inc. (SBC), was formed as one of several
regional holding companies created to hold AT T Corp. s (ATTC) local
telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, we were spun-off from ATTC pursuant to
an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an independent publicly traded
telecommunications services provider. At formation, we primarily operated in
five southwestern states. Our subsidiaries merged with Pacific Telesis Group in
1997, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation in 1998 and Ameritech
Corporation in 1999, thereby expanding our wireline operations as the incumbent
local exchange carrier (ILEC) into a total of 13 states. In November 2005, one
of our subsidiaries merged with ATTC, creating one of the world s leading
telecommunications providers. In connection with the merger, we changed the name
of our company from  SBC Communications Inc.  to  AT T Inc.   In
December 2006, one of our subsidiaries merged with BellSouth Corporation
(BellSouth) making us the ILEC in an additional nine states. With the BellSouth
acquisition, we thereby acquired BellSouth s 40 percent economic interest in
AT T Mobility LLC (AT T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC, and
BellSouth s 34 percent economic interest in YELLOWPAGES.COM (YPC), resulting in
100 percent ownership of AT T Mobility and YPC. Our services and products
are marketed under the AT T brand name, including alliances such as AT T
Yahoo! and AT T | DIRECT TV. 

Scope 

      We rank
among the leading providers of telecommunications services in the United States
and the world. We offer our services and products to consumers in the U.S. and
services and products to businesses and other providers of telecommunications
services worldwide. 

The
services and products that we offer vary by market, and include: wireless
communications, local exchange services, long-distance services, data/broadband
and Internet services, video services, telecommunications equipment, managed
networking, wholesale services and directory advertising and publishing. We
group our operating subsidiaries as follows, corresponding to our operating
segments for financial reporting purposes: 

wireless
      subsidiaries provide both wireless voice and data communications services
      across the U.S. and, through roaming agreements, in a substantial number
      of foreign countries, 

wireline
      subsidiaries provide primarily landline telecommunications and video
      services to residential customers in 22 states and to business and
      governmental customers, throughout the U.S. and
      internationally, 

advertising
        publishing subsidiaries provide services related to directory
      advertising and publishing, 

other
      subsidiaries provide results from Sterling Commerce, Inc. (Sterling), all
      corporate and other operations. 

Our
traditional wireline local exchange subsidiaries operate in 22 states: Alabama,
Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Florida, Georgia,
Kentucky, Louisiana, Kansas, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, North
Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Wisconsin
(22-state area). Our wireline local exchange services are provided through
regulated subsidiaries which operate within authorized regions subject to
regulation by each state in which they operate and by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC). Wireless service providers are regulated by the FCC.
Additional information relating to regulation is contained under the heading
 Government Regulation  below and in the Annual Report under the heading
 Operating Environment and Trends of the Business,  and is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

1 

AT T
      Inc. 

With the
expansion of our company through acquisitions and the resulting ownership
consolidation of AT T Mobility, and with continuing advances in technology,
we plan to offer new services that combine our traditional wireline and wireless
services, thereby making our customers  lives more convenient and productive and
fostering competition and further innovation in the communications and
entertainment industry. In 2009, we plan to focus on the areas discussed
below. 

Wireless 

      AT T
Mobility began operations in October 2000 as a joint venture between us and
BellSouth and, in 2004, acquired AT T Wireless Services, Inc. Upon our
acquisition of BellSouth, AT T Mobility became a wholly-owned
subsidiary. 

Our
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System/ High-Speed Downlink Packet Access
third generation (3G) network technology covers most major metropolitan areas of
the U.S. This technology provides superior speeds for data and video services,
as well as operating efficiencies, using the same spectrum and infrastructure
for voice and data on an IP-based platform. Our wireless networks also rely on
digital transmission technologies known as Global System for Mobile
Communication, General Packet Radio Services and Enhanced Data Rates for GSM
Evolution for data communications. As of December 31, 2008, we served
approximately 77 million customers and were a leading provider of mobile
wireless voice and data communications services in the U.S. 

As the
wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth
will become increasingly dependent on our ability to offer innovative services
that will encourage existing customers to upgrade their services and will
attract customers from other providers as well as our ability to minimize
turnover of our existing customer base (customer churn). We intend to accomplish
these goals by continuing to expand our network coverage, improve our network
quality and offer a broad array of products and services, including exclusive
devices such as the Apple iPhone and free mobile-to-mobile calling among our
wireless customers. The effective management of customer churn is critical to
our ability to maximize revenue growth and to maintain and improve our operating
margins. 

Business
Customers 

      As we
continue to integrate the operations of BellSouth and ATTC, we expect to
continue to strengthen the reach and sophistication of our network facilities
and our ability to offer a variety of communications services, both wireless and
wireline, to large businesses and wholesale customers worldwide. We expect to
offer similar services to small- and medium-businesses and to increase the
attractiveness of our services to governmental customers. We also expect to
extend our wholesale business offerings to other service products and systems
integration services. 

Data/Broadband 

      As the
communications industry continues to move toward internet-based technologies
that are capable of blending traditional wireline and wireless services, we plan
to offer services to take advantage of these new and more sophisticated
technologies. In particular, we intend to continue to focus on deploying our
AT T U-verse  sm 
high-speed broadband and TV services and on developing internet protocol-based
services that allow customers to unite their home or business wireline services
with their wireless service. 

U-verse Services  We are
continuing to expand our deployment of our U-verse services. In December 2008,
we added our millionth U-verse video customer, ending the year with
approximately 1,045,000 customers.  As of December 31, 2008, we have
passed approximately 17 million living units (constructed housing units as well
as platted housing lots) and are marketing the services to almost 65 percent of
those units. Our deployment strategy is to enter each new area on a limited
basis in order to ensure that all operating and back-office systems are
functioning successfully and then expand within each area as we continue to
monitor these systems. In these expansions, we expect to continue to use
contracted outside labor in addition to our employees as installers; our rate of
expansion will be slowed if we cannot hire and train an adequate number of
qualified contractors and technicians to keep pace with customer demand or if we
cannot obtain all required local building permits in a timely fashion. We also
continue to work with our vendors on improving, in a timely manner, the
requisite hardware and software technology. Our deployment plans could be
delayed if we do not receive required equipment and software on schedule.

We
believe that our U-verse TV service is subject to federal oversight as a  video
service  under the Federal Communications Act. However, some cable providers and
municipalities have claimed that certain IP services should be treated as a
traditional cable service and therefore subject to the applicable state and
local cable regulation. Certain municipalities have delayed our request or have
refused us permission to use our existing right-of-ways to deploy or activate
our U-verse-related services and products, resulting in litigation. Pending
negotiations and current or threatened litigation involving municipalities could
delay our deployment plans in those areas. In July 2008, the U.S. District Court
for Connecticut affirmed its October 2007 ruling that AT T s U-verse TV
service is a cable service in Connecticut. We have appealed that decision on the
basis that state legislation rendered the case moot. If the courts having
jurisdiction where we have significant deployments of our U-verse services were
to decide that federal, state and/or local cable regulation were applicable to
our U-verse services, it could have a material adverse effect on the cost,
timing and extent of our deployment plans. 

2 

AT T
      Inc. 

Voice over Internet
Protocol   VoIP is generally used to describe the transmission
of voice using Internet-Protocol-based technology rather than a traditional wire
and switch-based telephone network. A company using this technology often can
provide voice services at a lower cost because this technology uses bandwidth
more efficiently than a traditional network and because this technology has not
been subject to traditional telephone industry regulation. While the development
of VoIP has resulted in increased competition for our wireline voice services,
it also presents growth opportunities for us to develop new products for our
customers. 

BUSINESS
OPERATIONS 

Operating
Segments 

      Our
segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services
and are managed accordingly. We analyze our various operating segments based on
segment income. Interest expense, interest income and other income (expense)  
net, are managed only on a total company basis and are, accordingly, reflected
only in consolidated results. Therefore, these items are not included in the
calculation of each segment s percentage of our total segment income. We have
four reportable segments:  (1) wireless; (2) wireline;
(3) advertising   publishing; and (4) other. 

Additional
information about our segments, including financial information, is included
under the heading  Segment Results  on pages 25 through 33 and in Note 4 of the
Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2). 

Wireless 

      Wireless
consists of our subsidiary, AT T Mobility, which operates as a wireless
provider to both business and consumer customers. Our wireless segment provided
approximately 39% of 2008 total segment operating revenues and 46% of our 2008
total segment income. At December 31, 2008, we had more than 77 million wireless
subscribers. 

Services
and Products 

      We offer
a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice communications
services in a variety of pricing plans, including postpaid and prepaid service
plans. Our voice offerings are tailored to meet the communications needs of
targeted customer segments, including youth, family, active professionals, small
businesses, government and major national corporate accounts. 

Service    Our voice service is
generally offered on a contract basis for one or two year periods, referred to
as postpaid. Under the terms of these contracts, service is billed and provided
on a monthly basis according to the applicable rate plan chosen. Our wireless
services include basic local wireless communications service, long-distance
service and roaming services. Roaming services enable our subscribers to utilize
other carriers  networks when they are  roaming  outside our network footprint.
We also charge fees to other carriers for providing roaming services to their
customers when their customers utilize our network. Additionally, we offer
prepaid service to meet the demands of distinct consumer segments, such as the
youth market, families and small business customers, who prefer to control usage
or pay in advance. 

Wireless
data revenues continue to be a growing area of our business, representing an
increasing share of our overall subscriber revenue. We are experiencing solid
growth from both consumer and enterprise wireless data services, as an
increasing number of our subscribers have upgraded their handsets to more
advanced handsets, including the Apple iPhone. We continue to upgrade our
network and coordinate with equipment manufacturers and applications developers
in order to further capitalize on the continued growth in the demand for
wireless data services. At December 31, 2008 we were a leading provider of
wireless data in the U.S. wireless industry based on subscribers. 

Equipment    We sell a wide
variety of handsets and personal computer wireless data cards manufactured by
various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We also sell
accessories, such as carrying cases, hands-free devices, batteries, battery
chargers and other items, to consumers, as well as to agents and other
third-party distributors for resale. Like other wireless service providers, we
often provide postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to
initiate or upgrade service. 

3 

AT T
      Inc. 

Additional
information on our wireless segment is contained in the Annual Report in the
 Operating Environment Overview  section under the heading  Expected Growth
Areas,   Wireless  beginning on page 34 and is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

Wireline 

      Our
Wireline subsidiaries provide both retail and wholesale communication services
domestically and internationally. Our wireline segment provided approximately
55% of 2008 segment operating revenues and 47% of our 2008 total segment income.
We divide our wireline services into three product-based categories: voice, data
and other.  Revenues from our traditional voice services have been
declining as customers have been switching to wireless, cable and other
internet-based providers. In addition, the deteriorating U.S. economy has caused
wireline customers to terminate their residential phone service and rely instead
on their wireless service for voice communication.  We have responded
by offering packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband
and video and intend to continue this strategy during 2009. 

Services
and Products 

Voice    Voice includes
traditional local and long-distance service provided to retail customers and
wholesale access to our network and individual network elements provided to
competitors. At December 31, 2008, our wireline subsidiaries served
approximately 31 million retail customer access lines, 22 million retail
business access lines and 3 million wholesale access lines. We also have a
number of integrated voice and data services, such as integrated network
connections, that provide customers the ability to integrate access for their
voice and data services, the data component of which is included in the data
category. Additionally, voice revenues do not include any of our VoIP revenues,
which are included in data revenues. 

Long
distance consists of traditional long distance and international long distance
for customers that select us as their primary long-distance carrier. Long
distance also includes services provided by calling card, 1-800 services and
conference calling. These services are used in a wide variety of business
applications, including sales, reservation centers or customer service centers.
We also provide wholesale switched access service to other service
providers. 

Voice
also includes calling features, fees to maintain wire located inside customer
premises and other miscellaneous voice products.    Calling features are
enhanced telephone services available to retail customers such as Caller ID,
Call Waiting and voice mail. These calling features services are generally more
profitable than basic local phone service. 

Data -  Data includes
traditional products, such as switched and dedicated transport, Internet access
and network integration, and data equipment sales. Additionally, data products
include high-speed connections such as private lines, packet, dedicated Internet
and enterprise networking services, as well as products such as DSL/broadband,
dial-up Internet access and WiFi (local radio frequency commonly known as
wireless fidelity). We also provide businesses voice applications over IP-based
networks (i.e., Enhanced Virtual Private Networks or  EVPN ). Over the past
several years, we have built out our new multi protocol label
switching/asynchronous transfer mode, or MPLS/ATM network, to supplement, and
eventually replace, our other extensive global data networks. These products
allow us to provide highly complex global data networks. 

Private
line uses high-capacity digital circuits to transmit from point-to-point in
multiple configurations and allows customers to create internal data networks
and to access external data networks. 

Switched
Transport services transmit data using switching equipment to transfer the data
between multiple lines before reaching its destination. Dedicated Transport
services use a single direct line to transmit data between destinations. DSL is
a digital modem technology that converts existing twisted-pair telephone lines
into access paths for multimedia and high-speed data communications to the
Internet or private networks. DSL allows customers to simultaneously make a
phone call and access information via the Internet or an office local area
network. Digital Services use dedicated digital circuits to transmit digital
data at various high rates of speed. 

      Network
integration services include installation of business data systems, local area
networking and other data networking offerings. Internet access services include
a wide range of products for residences and businesses,. Internet services
offered include basic dial-up access service, dedicated access, web hosting,
e-mail and high-speed access services. 

Packet
services consist of data networks using packet switching and transmission
technologies, including traditional circuit-based, and IP connectivity services.
Packet services enable customers to transmit large volumes of data economically
and securely and are used for local area network interconnection, remote site,
point of sale and branch office communications. High speed packet services are
used extensively by enterprise (large business) customers. 

4 

AT T
      Inc. 

Dedicated
Internet services are designed to meet the needs of all types of commercial and
governmental enterprises, including small and medium sized businesses. Our
managed Internet services provide customers with dedicated high speed access to
the Internet managed by us. 

Enterprise
networking services provide comprehensive support from network design,
implementation and installation to ongoing network operations and management for
networks of varying scales, including local area networks, wide area networks,
and virtual private networks. These services include applications such as
e-mail, order entry systems, employee directories, human resource transactions
and other database applications. 

We also
provide local, interstate and international wholesale networking capacity to
other service providers. We offer a combination of high volume transmission
capacity and conventional dedicated line services on a regional, national and
international basis to wireless carriers, interexchange carriers, Internet
service providers (ISPs) and facility-based and switchless resellers. Our
wholesale customers are primarily large ISPs, wireless carriers, competitive
local exchange carriers, regional phone companies, interexchange carriers, cable
companies and systems integrators. We also have sold dedicated network capacity
through indefeasible rights-of-use agreements under which capacity is furnished
for contract terms as long as 25 years. 

Other -  Other includes managed
web hosting, application management, security service, integration services,
customer premises equipment, outsourcing, directory and operator assistance
services, government-related services, our U-verse and satellite video
services. 

Our
managed web-hosting services for businesses provide network, server and security
infrastructure as well as built-in data storage and include application
performance management, database management, hardware and operating system
management. Our hosting services also provide customers with secure access to
detailed reporting information about their infrastructure and applications.
Security services include business continuity and disaster recovery services as
well as premise and network based security products. 

Customer
premises equipment and other equipment sales range from single-line and cordless
telephones to sophisticated digital PBX systems. PBX is a private telephone
switching system, typically used by businesses and usually located on a
customer s premises, which provides intra-premise telephone services as well as
access to our network. 

Advertising
  Publishing 

      Advertising
  Publishing includes our directory operations, which publish Yellow and
White Pages directories and sell directory advertising and Internet-based
advertising and local search. The advertising   publishing segment provided
approximately 4% of total segment operating revenues and 7% of our 2008 total
segment income. This segment sells advertising services throughout the United
States, with our print directory operations primarily covering our 22-state
area. 

Other 

      Our other
segment includes operations from Sterling, our business integration software and
services subsidiary, corporate and other operations. The other segment provided
approximately 2% of total segment operating revenues and less than 1% of our
2008 total segment income.  We also include in this segment the equity
income (loss) from our investments in Telmex, America Movil and Telmex
Internaccional. 

Sterling
provides  multi-enterprise collaboration  services to businesses in various
industries, including retail, financial services, manufacturing, healthcare and
telecom. In recent years, Sterling has completed a number of acquisitions in
order to provide end-to-end order fulfillment for customers. 

5 

AT T
      Inc. 

MAJOR
CLASSES OF SERVICE 

The
following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated total reported
operating revenues by any class of service that accounted for 10% or more of our
consolidated total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal
years. 

Prior to
our December 2006 acquisition of BellSouth, our wireless segment revenues were
reported in equity in net income of affiliates in our consolidated financial
statements due to our equity accounting for the joint venture. We accounted for
our 60 percent economic interest in AT T Mobility under the equity method of
accounting since we shared control equally with our 40 percent economic partner
in the joint venture. We held equal voting rights and representation on the
board of directors that controlled AT T Mobility. Accordingly, our
consolidated results included wireless results in the  Equity in Net Income of
Affiliates  line. We did not report wireless revenues in our consolidated
financial statements. However, when analyzing our segment results, we evaluated
wireless results on a stand-alone basis. The table below shows the effect on our
other classes of services (shown in the above table) if we include 100% of
AT T Mobility s revenues added to our total segment operating
revenues. 

6 

AT T
      Inc. 

GOVERNMENT
REGULATION 

Wireless
communications providers must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications
services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and
must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as
adopted by the FCC. Additionally, while wireless communications providers 
prices and service offerings are generally not subject to regulation, the
federal government and an increasing number of states are considering new
regulations and legislation relating to various aspects of wireless
services. 

Our
wireline subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state commissions which have
the power to regulate intrastate rates and services, including local,
long-distance and network access services. These subsidiaries are also subject
to the jurisdiction of the FCC with respect to interstate and international
rates and services, including interstate access charges. Access charges are
designed to compensate our wireline subsidiaries for the use of their networks
by other carriers. 

Our
subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are subject to the jurisdiction of
national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is
provided. Regulation is generally limited to operational licensing authority for
the provision of enterprise services. 

Additional
information relating to regulation of our subsidiaries is contained in the
Annual Report under the heading  Operating Environment Overview  beginning on
page 34 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

IMPORTANCE,
DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES 

Certain
of our subsidiaries own or have licenses to various patents, copyrights,
trademarks and other intellectual property necessary to conduct business. We
actively pursue patents, trademarks and service marks to protect our
intellectual property within the U.S. and abroad. We maintain a global portfolio
of more than 5,000 trademark and service mark registrations. We have also
entered into agreements that permit other companies, in exchange for fees and
subject to appropriate safeguards and restrictions, to utilize certain of our
trademarks and service marks. We periodically receive offers from third parties
to obtain licenses for patent and other intellectual rights in exchange for
royalties or other payments. We also receive notices asserting that our products
or services infringe on their patents and other intellectual property rights.
These claims, whether against us directly or against third-party suppliers of
products or services that we, in turn, sell to our customers, such as wireless
handsets, could require us to pay damages, royalties, stop offering the relevant
products or services and/or cease other activities. While the outcome of any
litigation is uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these
infringement claims or the expiration or non-renewal of any of our intellectual
property rights would have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations. 

MAJOR
CUSTOMER 

No
customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 or
2006. 

COMPETITION 

Information
relating to competition in each of our operating segments is contained in the
Annual Report under the heading  Competition  beginning on page 36, and is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

7 

AT T
      Inc. 

RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT 

The
majority of our research activities are related to our wireline segment,
performed at our subsidiary AT T Labs. AT T Labs  scientists and
engineers conduct research in a variety of areas, including IP; advanced network
design and architecture; network operations support systems; data mining
technologies and advanced speech technologies. The majority of the development
activities are performed by AT T Services. The developers within AT T
Services work with our business units and AT T Labs to create new services
and invent tools and systems to manage secure and reliable networks for us and
our customers. We also have a research agreement with Telcordia Technologies,
formerly Bell Communications Research, Inc. Research and development expenses
were $832 in 2008, $985 in 2007 and $577 million in 2006. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of
January 31, 2009, we employed approximately 301,000 persons. Approximately
60 percent of our employees are represented by the Communications Workers of
America (CWA), the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) or
other unions. The five largest collective bargaining agreements between the CWA
and our subsidiaries, covering approximately 80,000   Wireline
employees, expire April 4, 2009. A separate collective bargaining agreement
between the CWA and our Wireless subsidiary covering 21,000 employees expired
February 7, 2009. 

8 

AT T
      Inc. 

ITEM
1A. RISK FACTORS 

Information
required by this Item is included in the Annual Report under the heading  Risk
Factors  on page 46 through page 47 which is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

CAUTIONARY
LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The
following factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those
expressed in the forward-looking statements: 

Adverse
      economic and/or capital access changes in the markets served by us or in
      countries in which we have significant
  investments. 

Changes
      in available technology and the effects of such changes including product
      substitutions and deployment costs. 

Increases
      in our benefit plans  costs including increases due to adverse changes in
      the U.S. and foreign securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed
      investment returns and discount rates, and adverse medical cost
      trends. 

The
      final outcome of Federal Communications Commission proceedings and
      reopenings of such proceedings and judicial review, if any, of such
      proceedings, including issues relating to access charges, broadband
      deployment, unbundled loop and transport elements and wireless
      services. 

The
      final outcome of regulatory proceedings in the states in which we operate
      and reopenings of such proceedings, and judicial review, if any, of such
      proceedings, including proceedings relating to interconnection terms,
      access charges, universal service, unbundled network elements and resale
      and wholesale rates, broadband deployment including our U-verse services,
      performance measurement plans, service standards and traffic
      compensation. 

Enactment
      of additional state, federal and/or foreign regulatory and tax laws and
      regulations pertaining to our subsidiaries and foreign
      investments. 

Our
      ability to absorb revenue losses caused by increasing competition and
      economic pressure, including offerings using alternative technologies
      (e.g., cable, wireless and VoIP), and our ability to maintain capital
      expenditures. 

The
      extent of competition and the resulting pressure on access line totals and
      wireline and wireless operating
margins. 

Our
      ability to develop attractive and profitable product/service offerings to
      offset increasing competition in our wireless and wireline
      markets. 

The
      ability of our competitors to offer product/service offerings at lower
      prices due to lower cost structures and regulatory and legislative actions
      adverse to us, including state regulatory proceedings relating to
      unbundled network elements and nonregulation of comparable alternative
      technologies (e.g., VoIP). 

The
      timing, extent and cost of deployment of our U-verse services (our
      Lightspeed initiative); the development of attractive and profitable
      service offerings; the extent to which regulatory, franchise fees and
      build-out requirements apply to this initiative; and the availability,
      cost and/or reliability of the various technologies and/or content
      required to provide such offerings. 

The
      outcome of pending or threatened litigation including patent claims by or
      against third parties. 

The
      impact on our networks and business of major equipment failures, severe
      weather conditions, natural disasters or terrorist
  attacks. 

The
      issuance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other accounting
      oversight bodies of new accounting standards or changes to existing
      standards. 

The
      issuance by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state tax authorities of
      new tax regulations or changes to existing standards and actions by
      federal, state or local tax agencies and judicial authorities with respect
      to applying applicable tax laws and regulations; and the resolution of
      disputes with any taxing
jurisdictions. 

Our
      ability to adequately fund our wireless operations, including access to
      additional spectrum; network upgrades and technological
      advancements. 

Changes
      in our corporate strategies, such as changing network requirements or
      acquisitions and dispositions, to respond to competition and regulatory,
      legislative and technological
developments. 

Readers
are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not
enumerated here, also could materially affect our future earnings. 

9 

AT T
      Inc. 

ITEM
2. PROPERTIES 

Our
properties do not lend themselves to description by character and location of
principal units. At December 31, 2008, approximately 85% of our property, plant
and equipment was owned by our wireline subsidiaries and approximately 14% was
owned by our wireless subsidiaries. Central office equipment represented 34%;
network access lines represented approximately 33% of our telephone plant; other
equipment, comprised principally of furniture and office equipment and vehicles
and other work equipment, represented 16%; land and buildings represented 12%;
and other miscellaneous property represented 5%. 

Substantially
all of the installations of central office equipment are located in buildings
and on land we own. Many garages, administrative and business offices, and
telephone centers and retail stores are in leased quarters. 

ITEM
3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

We are a
party to numerous lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and other matters arising in
the ordinary course of business. Additional information regarding litigation is
included in the Annual Report under the headings   Retiree Phone
Concession Litigation,   NSA Litigation  and    Prepaid Calling Card
Patent Litigation  on pages 39 through 40, which is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). As of the date of this report,
we do not believe any pending legal proceedings to which we or our subsidiaries
are subject are required to be disclosed as material legal proceedings pursuant
to this item. 

We
are subject from time to time to judicial and administrative proceedings
brought by various governmental authorities under federal, state or
local environmental laws.  We are required to discuss
in our Forms 10-Q and 10-K two of these proceedings, (which are listed
below), because each could result in monetary sanctions (exclusive of interest
and costs) of one hundred thousand dollars or more.  However, we do
not believe that any of them currently pending will have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations. 

(a) The
City of Philadelphia notified AT T Corp. on December 12, 2008 that it would
seek civil penalties for alleged violations of state and local air emissions
control requirements and permit terms applicable to back-up power generators at
an AT T Corp. facility. AT T Corp. expects to settle this matter on
terms that would include civil penalties of less than one hundred twenty-five
thousand dollars. 

(b) The
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is seeking civil penalties from
AT T Mobility in connection with   alleged
violations of federal environmental statutes in connection with management of
back-up power systems at AT T   Mobility
facilities. The EPA s allegations include noncompliance with requirements to
obtain air emission permits for 

      generators
and to prepare spill prevention plans for fuel storage tanks. We expect to
settle this matter on terms   that
would include civil penalties in the range of 1 to 3 million
dollars. 

ITEM
4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

No matter
was submitted to a vote of stockholders in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
covered by this report. 

10 

AT T
      Inc. 

Name  

Age  

Position  

Held Since  

Randall
      L. Stephenson 

48 

Chairman
      of the Board, Chief Executive Officer   and
      President 

6/2007 

William
      A. Blase Jr. 

53 

Senior
      Executive Vice President   Human Resources 

6/2007 

James
      W. Callaway 

62 

Senior
      Executive Vice President   Executive Operations 

5/2007 

James
      W. Cicconi 

56 

Senior
      Executive Vice President   External and Legislative Affairs, AT T
      Services, Inc. 

11/2008 

Catherine
      M. Coughlin 

51 

Senior
      Executive Vice President and Global Marketing Officer 

6/2007 

Ralph
      de la Vega 

57 

President
      and Chief Executive Officer, AT T Mobility and Consumer
      Markets 

10/2008 

Richard
      G. Lindner 

54 

Senior
      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

5/2004 

Forrest
      E. Miller 

56 

Group
      President   Corporate Strategy and Development 

6/2007 

Ronald
      E. Spears 

60 

President
      and Chief Executive Officer, AT T Business Solutions 

11/2008 

John
      T. Stankey 

46 

President
      and Chief Executive Officer, AT T Operations, Inc. 

10/2008 

Wayne
      Watts 

55 

Senior
      Executive Vice President and General Counsel 

6/2007 

Rayford
      Wilkins, Jr. 

57 

Chief
      Executive Officer   AT T Diversified Businesses 

10/2008 

All of
the above executive officers have held high-level managerial positions with
AT T or its subsidiaries for more than the past five years. Executive
officers are not appointed to a fixed term of office. 

11 

AT T
      Inc. 

PART
II 

ITEM
5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED 

        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Our
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The number of
stockholders of record as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was 1,541,767 and
1,663,676. The number of stockholders of record as of February 20, 2009 was
1,531,236. We declared dividends, on a quarterly basis, totaling $1.61 per share
in 2008 and $1.47 per share in 2007. 

During
2008, non-employee directors acquired shares of common stock pursuant to the
Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan. Under the plan, a director may
make an annual election to receive all or part of his or her annual retainer or
fees in the form of shares or deferred stock units (DSUs) that are convertible
into cash or shares. Each director also receives an annual grant of DSUs. The
plan provides that DSUs (and dividends earned thereon) acquired during 2007 and
thereafter would be convertible in the form of cash only. During 2008, an
aggregate of 24,802 shares and DSUs (from pre-2007 accruals) were acquired by
non-employee directors at prices ranging from $26.77 to $39.90, in each case the
fair market value of the shares on the date of acquisition. The issuances of
shares and DSUs were exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act. 

Other
information required by this Item is included in the Annual Report under the
headings  Quarterly Financial Information  on page 75,  Selected Financial and
Operating Data  on page 22,  Issuer Equity Repurchases  on page 45, and  Stock
Trading Information  on the back cover, which are incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

ITEM
6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

Information
required by this Item is included in the Annual Report under the heading
 Selected Financial and Operating Data  on page 22, which is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

ITEM
7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATION 

Information
required by this Item is included in the Annual Report on pages 23 through 48,
which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

ITEM
7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Information
required by this Item is included in the Annual Report under the heading  Market
Risk  on page 43 through page 45, which is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

ITEM
8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

Information
required by this Item is included in the Annual Report on pages 49 through 75,
which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2). 

12 

AT T
      Inc. 

ITEM
9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING 

        AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

During
our two most recent fiscal years, there has been no change in the independent
accountant engaged as the principal accountant to audit our financial statements
and the independent accountant has not expressed reliance on other independent
accountants in its reports during such time period. 

ITEM
9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures 

The
registrant maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the registrant is recorded,
processed, summarized, accumulated and communicated to its management, including
its principal executive and principal financial officers, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure, and reported within the time periods
specified in the SEC s rules and forms. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures as
of December 31, 2008. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of December 31, 2008. 

Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting 

(a)  Management s
Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

      The
management of AT T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. AT T s internal control system
was designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the integrity and reliability
of the published financial statements. AT T management assessed the
effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
 Internal Control   Integrated
Framework . Based on its assessment, AT T management believes that, as
of December 31, 2008, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is
effective based on those criteria. 

(b)  Attestation
Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm 

      The
registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included
in the annual report containing the disclosure required by this Item, Ernst
  Young LLP, has issued an attestation report on the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. The attestation report issued by Ernst  
Young LLP is included in the Annual Report on page 78, which is incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 

ITEM 9B.  OTHER
INFORMATION 

There is
no information that was required to be disclosed in a report on Form 8-K during
the fourth quarter of 2008 but was not reported. 

13 

AT T
      Inc. 

PART
III 

ITEM
10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

Information
regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is furnished
in a separate disclosure at the end of Part I of this report since the
registrant did not furnish such information in its definitive proxy statement
prepared in accordance with Schedule 14A. Information regarding directors
required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant s definitive proxy
statement, dated on or about March 11, 2009 (Proxy Statement) under the heading
 Election of Directors.  

There is
no disclosure in this Form 10-K of reporting person delinquencies in response to
Item 405 and the registrant, at the time of filing this Form 10-K, has reviewed
the information necessary to ascertain, and has determined that Item 405
disclosure is not expected to be contained in this Form 10-K or incorporated by
reference. 

The
registrant has a separately-designated standing audit committee established in
accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The
members of the committee are Messrs. Aldinger, Chico Pardo, Kelly, Madonna and
Ms. Martin. The additional information required by Item 407(d)(5) of Regulation
S-K is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3)
from the registrant s Proxy Statement under the heading  Audit
Committee.  

The
registrant has adopted a code of ethics entitled  Code of Ethics  that applies
to the registrant s principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer, or controller or persons performing similar
functions. The additional information required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K is
provided in this report under the heading  General  under Part I, Item 1.
Business. 

ITEM
11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

Information
required by Item 402(k) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant s Proxy Statement under
the heading  Compensation of Directors.   Information regarding
officers is included in the registrant s Proxy Statement on the pages beginning
with the heading  Compensation Discussion and Analysis  and ending with, and
including, the last page under the heading  Potential Payments upon Termination
or Change in Control  which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(3). Information required by Item 407(e)(5) of Regulation
S-K is included in the registrant s Proxy Statement under the heading
 Compensation Committee Report  and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant
to General Instruction G(3) and shall be deemed furnished in this annual report
on Form 10-K and will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing
under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. 

14 

AT T
      Inc. 

ITEM
12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 

        MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS 

Information
required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant s Proxy
Statement under the heading  Common   Stock Ownership,  which
is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(3). 

Information
required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is provided below: 

Equity
Compensation Plan Information 

The
following table provides information as of December 31, 2008, concerning shares
of AT T common stock authorized for issuance under AT T s existing
equity compensation plans. 

Equity
Compensation Plan Information (1) 

(1) 

Includes
      the issuance of stock in connection with the following stockholder
      approved plans: (a) 48,689,664 stock options under the 1996 Stock and
      Incentive Plan, 2001 Incentive Plan, Stock Savings Plan (SSP), and Stock
      Purchase and Deferral Plan (SPDP), (b) 2,802,401 phantom stock units under
      the SSP and 3,026,813 phantom stock units under the SPDP, and (c)
      14,766,743 target number of stock-settled performance shares under the
      2001 Incentive Plan and 2006 Incentive Plan. At payout, the target number
      of performance shares may be reduced to zero or increased by up to 150%
      (348,207 of the performance shares may be increased by up to 200%). Each
      phantom stock unit and performance share is settleable in stock on a
      1-to-1 basis. The weighted-average exercise price in the table does not
      include outstanding performance shares or phantom stock units.The SSP was
      approved by stockholders in 1994, and was amended by the Board of
      Directors in 2000 to increase the number of shares available for purchase
      under the plan (including shares from the company match and reinvested
      dividend equivalents) and shares subject to options. Stockholder approval
      was not required for the amendment. To the extent applicable, the amount
      shown for approved plans in column (a), in addition to the above amounts,
      includes 3,087,593 phantom stock units (computed on a first-in-first-out
      basis) and 1,615,038 stock options that were approved by the Board in
      2000. Under the SSP, shares could be purchased with payroll deduction and
      reinvested dividend equivalents by mid-level and above managers and
      limited company partial matching contributions. No new contributions may
      be made to the plan. In addition, participants received approximately 2
      options for each share purchased with employee payroll deductions. The
      options have a 10-year term and a strike price equal to the fair market
      value of the stock on the date of
grant. 

(3) 

Includes
      61,741,355 stock options under the 1995 Management Stock Option Plan (1995
      MSOP), which has not been approved by stockholders.  The 1995
      MSOP provides for grants of stock options to management employees (10-year
      terms) subject to vesting requirements and shortened exercise terms upon
      termination of employment. No further options may be issued under this
      plan. 

(4) 

Does
      not include certain stock options issued by companies acquired by AT T
      that were converted into options to acquire AT T stock. As of December
      31, 2008, there were 91,839,198 shares of AT T common stock subject to
      the converted options, having a weighted-average exercise price of
      $39.82.  Also, does not include 756,005 outstanding phantom
      stock units that were issued by companies acquired by AT T that are
      convertible into stock on a 1-to-1 basis, along with up to 92,109 shares
      that may be purchased with reinvested dividend equivalents (applies only
      to 112,008 of the outstanding phantom stock units). These units have no
      exercise price. No further phantom stock units, other than reinvested
      dividends, may be issued under the assumed plans. The weighted-average
      exercise price in the table does not include outstanding performance
      shares or phantom stock units. 

15 

AT T
      Inc. 

ITEM
13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE 

Information
required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant s Proxy
Statement under the heading  Related Party Transactions,  which is incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3). Information required
by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant s Proxy Statement
under the heading  Independence of Directors,  which is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3). 

ITEM
14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

Information
required by this Item is included in the registrant s Proxy Statement under the
heading  Principal Accountant Fees and Services,  which is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3). 

Part
IV 

ITEM
15. EXHIBITS and FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a)
Documents filed as a part of the report: 

Page 

(1)   
                    Report of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

* 

Financial
      Statements covered by Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm:  

Consolidated
      Statements of Income  

* 

Consolidated Balance
      Sheets  

* 

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows  

* 

Consolidated
      Statements of Stockholders  Equity  

* 

Notes to
      Consolidated Financial Statements  

* 

*  
                       
                          Incorporated
      herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the registrant s annual
      report to stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. (See
      Part
II.)  

Page 

(2)   
                      Financial Statement
      Schedules:  

II - Valuation and Qualifying
      Accounts 

22 

Financial
statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted because the
required information is contained in the financial statements and notes thereto,
or because such schedules are not required or applicable. 

Exhibits
identified in parentheses below, on file with the SEC, are incorporated herein
by reference as exhibits hereto. Unless otherwise indicated, all exhibits so
incorporated are from File No. 1-8610. 

Exhibit 

       Number                           

4-a 

Certificate
      of Designations for Perpetual Cumulative Preferred Stock of SBC
      Communications Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of the State of
      Delaware on November 18, 2005. (Contained in Restated Certificate of
      Incorporation filed as Exhibit
3-a.) 

4-b 

No
      instrument which defines the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
      registrant and all of its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith
      pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601b)(4)(iii)(A), except for the
      instruments referred to in 4-c, 4-d, 4-e,  4-f, 4-g and 4-h
      below. Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby agrees to
      furnish a copy of any such instrument not filed herewith to the SEC upon
      request. 

16 

AT T
      Inc. 

4-c 

Guaranty
      of certain obligations of Pacific Bell Telephone Co. and SBC
      Communications Inc. (Exhibit 4-c to Form 10-K for
  2007.) 

4-d 

Guaranty
      of certain obligations of Ameritech Capital Funding Corp., Illinois Bell
      Telephone Co., Indiana Bell Telephone Co. Inc., Michigan Bell Telephone
      Co., The Ohio Bell Telephone Co., Pacific Bell Telephone Co., Southern New
      England Telecommunications Corp., The Southern New England Telephone Co.,
      Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., Wisconsin Bell, Inc. (Exhibit 4-c to Form
      10-Q for September 30, 2005.) 

4-h 

Indenture
      dated as of November 1, 1994 between SBC Communications Inc. and The Bank
      of New York, as Trustee. 

10-d 

Senior
      Management Deferred Compensation Plan (effective for Units of
      Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January 1,
      1988). 

10-e 

Senior
      Management Deferred Compensation Program of 1988 (effective for Units of
      Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988 or
      later). 

10-h 

AT T
      Inc. Health Plan, formerly the Executive Health Plan, amended and restated
      January 1, 2009. 

17 

AT T
      Inc. 

10-hh 

AT T
      Corp. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as AT T
      Corp. Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan), amended and
      restated January 1, 2008. 

18 

AT T
      Inc. 

10-qq(ii) 

Second
      Amendment to BellSouth Corporation Stock and Incentive Compensation
      Plan. 

10-tt 

Non-Employee
      Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Terms and Conditions (for options
      granted under the BellSouth Corporation Stock and Incentive Compensation
      Plan). (Exhibit 10-qq to Form 8-K dated September 30, 2004 of BellSouth
      Corporation (File No. 1-8607).) 

10-xx 

AT T
      Corp, Senior Management Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan,
      amended December 31, 2008. 

19 

AT T
      Inc. 

10-eee 

BellSouth
      Nonqualified Deferred Income Plan, as amended and restated effective
      January 1, 2005. 

10-hhh 

AT T
      Corp. Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, as amended and restated
      effective December 31, 2008. 

12 

Computation
      of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed
Charges. 

13 

Portions
      of AT T s Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
      December 31, 2008. Only the information incorporated by reference into
      this Form 10-K is included in the
exhibit. 

21 

Subsidiaries
      of AT T Inc. 

23 

Consent
      of Ernst   Young LLP, independent registered public
      accounting firm for AT T. 

31.1  Certification
of Principal Executive Officer 

      31.2  Certification
of Principal Financial Officer 

We will
furnish to stockholders upon request, and without charge, a copy of the annual
report to stockholders and the proxy statement, portions of which are
incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K. We will furnish any other exhibit at
cost. 

20 

Schedule
II - Sheet 1 

AT T
INC. 

      SCHEDULE
II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

      Allowance
for Uncollectibles 

      Dollars
in Millions 

__________________ 

(a) 

Excludes
      direct charges and credits to expense on the statements of income and
      reinvested earnings related to interexchange carrier
      receivables. 

(b) 

Includes
      amounts previously written off which were credited directly to this
      account when recovered and amounts related to long-distance carrier
      receivables which were billed by
AT T. 

(c)   

Amounts
      written off as uncollectible. 

21 

Schedule
II - Sheet 2 

AT T
INC. 

      SCHEDULE
II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

      Accumulated
Amortization of Intangibles 

      Dollars
in Millions 

__________________ 

(a)   

Consolidation
      of AT T Mobility due to the December 2006 acquisition of
      BellSouth. 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, on the 25 th  day of
February, 2009. 

AT T
INC. 

/s/
      Richard G. Lindner  

Richard
      G. Lindner 

                    Senior Executive vice President 

                    and Chief Financial
      Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
date indicated. 

Principal
Executive Officer: 

        Randall Stephenson* 

        Chairman of the Board, Chief
Executive Officer 

        and President 

Principal
Financial and Accounting Officer: 

        Richard G. Lindner 

        Senior Executive Vice
President 

        and Chief Financial
Officer 

/s/
      Richard G. Lindner  

Richard
      G. Lindner, as attorney-in-fact 

                          and
      on his own behalf as Principal 

                          Financial
      Officer and Principal 

                          Accounting
      Officer 

February 25,
2009  

Directors: 

Randall
      L. Stephenson* 

Jon
      C. Madonna* 

William
      F. Aldinger III* 

Lynn
      M. Martin* 

Gilbert
      F. Amelio* 

John
      B. McCoy* 

Reuben
      V. Anderson* 

Mary
      S. Metz* 

James
      H. Blanchard* 

Joyce
      M. Roch * 

August
      A. Busch III* 

                      Jaime
      Chico Pardo* 

Laura
      D Andrea Tyson* 

                      Patricia
      P. Upton* 

James
      P. Kelly* 

* by
power of attorney 

<EX-4.H>
 2
 ex4h.htm
 INDENTURE BETWEEN SBC COMMUNICATIONS AND BKNY

ex4h.htm 

Execution
Copy  

SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC. 

as Issuer
and Registrant of Securities 

AND 

THE BANK
OF NEW YORK 

Trustee 

____________________ 

INDENTURE 

Dated as
of November 1, 1994 

___________________ 

Providing
for Issuance of Securities in Series 

INDENTURE dated as of November 1, 1994
between SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation ("SBC"), and THE BANK OF
NEW YORK, a New York banking company duly organized and validly existing under
the laws of the State of New York ("Trustee"). 

RECITALS
OF SBC 

SBC has duly authorized the execution
and delivery of this Indenture for the issuance from time to time of its
unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness ("Securities") as
herein provided. 

All things necessary to make this
Indenture a valid agreement of SBC, in accordance with its terms, have been
done. 

For and in consideration of the
premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is
mutually covenanted and agreed as follows for the equal and ratable benefit of
the Holders of the Securities: 

ARTICLE
1 

DEFINITIONS
AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE 

SECTION
1.01  Definitions. 

"Affiliate" means any person directly
or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect common
control with, SBC. 

"Agent" means any Paying Agent,
Registrar, or co-Registrar. 

"Authorized Newspaper" means a
newspaper of general circulation, in an official language of the country of
publication or in the English language, customarily published on days other than
Legal Holidays, as defined in Section 10.07, in such
country.  Whenever successive weekly publications in an Authorized
Newspaper are required hereunder, they may be made (unless otherwise expressly
provided herein) on the same or different days of the week and in the same or
different Authorized Newspapers. 

"Board of Directors" means the Board of
Directors of SBC, or any duly authorized committee thereof. 

"Board Resolution" means a copy of a
resolution of the Board of Directors, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant
Secretary of SBC to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be
in full force and effect. 

"Default" means any event which is, or
after notice or passage of time would be, an Event of Default. 

"Depository" means, with respect to the
Securities of any Series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of
one or more Global Securities, the person designated as Depository by SBC
pursuant to Section 2.02. 

"Global Security" means a Security in
the form prescribed in Section 2.02 evidencing all or part of a Series of
Securities, issued to the Depository for such series or its nominee, and
registered in the name of such Depository or nominee. 

"Holder" or "Securityholder" means the
bearer of an Unregistered Security or of a coupon appertaining thereto or the
person in whose name a Registered Security is registered on the Registrar's
books. 

"Indenture" means this Indenture as
amended or supplemented from time to time including, for all purposes of this
instrument and any such amendment or supplement, the provisions of the TIA that
are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such amendment or
supplement, respectively.  The term "Indenture" shall also include the
forms and terms of a particular Series of Securities established as contemplated
hereunder. 

"Officer" means the Chairman of the
Board of Directors, any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President,
any Vice-President, the Treasurer or the Secretary of SBC. 

"Officers' Certificate" means a
certificate signed by two Officers or by any Officer and an Assistant Treasurer
or an Assistant Secretary of SBC. 

"Opinion of Counsel" means a written
opinion of legal counsel who is acceptable to SBC and the
Trustee.  Counsel may be an employee of or counsel to SBC or the
Trustee. 

"Order" means an order in the name of
SBC signed by two Officers or by any Officer and an Assistant Treasurer or an
Assistant Secretary of SBC. 

"Original Issue Discount Security"
means any Security which provides for an amount less than the stated principal
amount thereof to be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the
maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02. 

"Principal" of a debt security means
the principal of the security plus, when appropriate, the premium, if any, on
the security. 

"Registered Security" means any
Security issued hereunder and registered by the Registrar. 

"Responsible Officer", when used with
respect to the Trustee, shall mean the chairman or any vice-chairman of the
board of directors or trustees, the chairman or any vice-chairman of the
executive committee of the board of directors or trustees, the president, any
vice-president, the treasurer, the secretary, any trust officer, any second or
assistant vice-president or any other officer or assistant officer of the
Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the
persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any
corporate trust matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity
with a particular subject. 

"SBC" means the party named as such in
this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable
provisions hereof and thereafter means the successor. 

"SEC" means the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 

"Series" or "Series of Securities"
means a series of Securities. 

"Securities" means the debentures,
notes or other obligations of SBC issued, authenticated and delivered under this
Indenture. 

"Subsidiary" means a corporation more
than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or
indirectly, by SBC or by one or more other of its Subsidiaries, or by SBC and
one or more other of its Subsidiaries.  For the purposes of this
definition, "voting stock" means stock which ordinarily has voting power for the
election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class
of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency. 

"TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of
1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture  provided ,  however , that in the
event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "TIA" means,
to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as
so amended.   

"Trustee" means the party named as such
in this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable
provisions hereof and thereafter means the successor and if, at any time, there
is more than one Trustee, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of
any Series shall mean the Trustee with respect to that Series. 

"U.S. person" means a citizen or
resident of the United States, a corporation, partnership or other entity
created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or a political
subdivision thereof, or an estate or trust the income of which is subject to
United States Federal income taxation regardless of its source. 

"United States" means the United States
of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), its territories,
its possessions and all other areas subject to its jurisdiction. 

"Unregistered Security" means any
Security issued hereunder which is not a Registered Security. 

"Yield to Maturity" means the yield to
maturity, calculated by SBC at the time of issuance of a Series of Securities
or, if applicable, at the most recent determination of interest on such Series
in accordance with accepted financial practice. 

SECTION
1.02   Other Definitions. 

SECTION
1.03   Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture
Act. 

Whenever this Indenture refers to a
provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a
part of this Indenture.  The following TIA terms used in this
Indenture have the following meanings: 

"Commission" means the
SEC. 

"indenture
securities" means the Securities. 

"indenture to be qualified" means this
Indenture. 

      "indenture
trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee. 

"obligor"
on the indenture securities means SBC. 

All other terms used in this Indenture
that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or
defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings assigned to them
therein. 

SECTION
1.04   Rules of Construction. 

Unless the context otherwise
requires: 

(1)  a term has the meaning
assigned to it; 

(2)  an accounting term not
otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 

(3)  "or" is not exclusive;
and 

(4)  words in the singular
include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular. 

ARTICLE
2 

THE
SECURITIES 

SECTION
2.01   Issuable in Series. 

The aggregate principal amount of
Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is
unlimited.  The Securities may be issued in one or more
Series.  There may be Registered Securities and Unregistered
Securities within a Series and the Unregistered Securities may be subject to
such restrictions, and contain such legends, as may be required by United States
laws and regulations.  Except as provided in the foregoing sentence or
as otherwise provided by or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to in
Section 2.02, all Securities of a Series shall be identical in all
respects.  Securities of different Series may differ in any respect;
provided that all Series of Securities shall be equally and ratably entitled to
the benefits of this Indenture. 

SECTION
2.02   Establishment of Terms and Form of Series of
Securities. 

(a)  At or prior to the
issuance of any Series of Securities, the following shall be established either
by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth in an Officers' Certificate,
or by an indenture supplemental hereto: 

(1)  the title of the
Securities of the Series (which title shall distinguish the Securities of the
Series from the Securities of all other Series and from all other securities
issued by SBC); 

(2)  any limit upon the
aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the Series which may be
authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities
authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange
for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the Series pursuant to Section 2.08,
2.09, 2.12, 3.06 or 9.05); 

(3)  the date or dates on
which the principal of the Securities of the Series is payable; 

(4)  the rate or rates at
which the Securities of the Series shall bear interest, if any, or the method of
calculating such rate or rates of interest, the date or dates from which such
interest shall accrue, the dates on which such interest shall be payable and,
with respect to Registered Securities, the record date for the interest payable
on any interest payment date; 

(5)  the place or places
where the principal of and interest on Registered and any Unregistered
Securities of the Series shall be payable; 

(6)  the period or periods
within which, the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions upon
which, Securities of the Series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the
option of SBC; 

(7)  the obligation, if any,
of SBC to redeem or purchase Securities of the Series pursuant to any sinking
fund or analogous provisions or upon the happening of a specified event or at
the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price
or prices at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the
Series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such
obligation; 

(8)  if in other than
denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in
which Securities of the Series shall be issuable; 

(9)  if other than the
principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of
the Series which shall be payable upon declaration or acceleration of the
maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02; 

(10)  whether Securities of
the Series shall be issuable as Registered Securities or Unregistered Securities
(with or without interest coupons), or both, and any restrictions applicable to
the offering, sale or delivery of Unregistered Securities and whether, and the
terms upon which, Unregistered Securities of a Series may be exchanged for
Registered Securities of the same Series and vice versa; 

(11)  whether and under what
circumstances SBC will pay additional amounts on the Securities of that Series
held by a person who is not a U.S. person in respect of taxes or similar charges
withheld or deducted and, if so, whether SBC will have the option to redeem such
Securities rather than pay such additional amounts; 

(12)  the currency or
currencies, including composite currencies, in which payment of the principal of
and interest on the Securities of the Series shall be payable (if other than the
currency of the United States of America); 

(13)  if the amount or
payments of principal of or interest on the Securities of the Series may be
determined with reference to an index, the manner in which such amounts shall be
determined; 

(14)  the obligation, if any,
of SBC to permit the conversion or exchange of the Securities of the Series into
other securities (whether or not issued by, or the obligation of, SBC), and the
terms and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange shall be effected
(including, without limitation, the initial conversion or exchange price or
rate, the conversion or exchange period and any other provisions in addition to
or in lieu of those set forth in this Indenture relative to such
obligation; 

(15)  whether the Securities
of the Series shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more
Global Securities and, in such case, the Depository for such Global Security or
Securities, which Depository shall be a clearing agency registered under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; 

(16)  any other terms of the
Series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Indenture), including any terms which may be required by or advisable under
United States laws or regulations or advisable in connection with the marketing
of Securities of that Series; 

(17)  the form of the
Securities (or forms thereof if Unregistered and Registered Securities shall be
issuable in such Series, including such legends as may be required by United
States laws or regulations, the form of any coupons or temporary global Security
which may be issued and the forms of any certificates which may be required
hereunder or under United States laws or regulations in connection with the
offering, sale, delivery or exchange of Unregistered Securities);
and 

(18)  the CUSIP number, if
any. 

(b)  If the terms and form or
forms of any Series of Securities are established by or pursuant to a Board
Resolution, SBC shall deliver a copy of such Board Resolution to the Trustee at
or prior to the issuance of such Series with (1) the form or forms of Security
which have been approved attached thereto, or (2) if such Board Resolution
authorized Officers to approve the terms and form or forms of the Securities, an
Officers' Certificate approving the terms and form or forms of Security with
such form or forms of Securities attached thereto. 

SECTION
2.03   Execution, Authentication and Delivery. 

(a)  Securities shall be
executed on behalf of SBC by its Chairman of the Board of Directors or a
Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors or its President or a Vice-President,
and its Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or its Secretary or an Assistant
Secretary.  Signatures shall be manual or facsimile.  SBC's
seal shall be reproduced on the Securities and may, but need not, be
attested.  The coupons of Unregistered Securities shall bear the
facsimile signature of the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of
SBC. 

(b)  If an Officer, an
Assistant Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary of SBC whose signature is on a
Security or coupon no longer holds that office at the time the Security is
authenticated, the Security or coupon shall be valid nevertheless. 

(c)  A Security shall not be
valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an
authenticating agent and no coupon shall be valid until the Security to which it
appertains has been so authenticated.  Such signature shall be
conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this
Indenture.  Each Registered Security shall be dated the date of its
authentication, and each Unregistered Security shall be dated as provided in
connection with the establishment of the Series thereof. 

(d)  The Trustee shall at any
time, and from time to time, authenticate and deliver Securities of any Series
executed and delivered by SBC for original issue in an aggregate principal
amount not in excess of the principal amount authorized for such Series, upon
receipt by the Trustee of (i) an Order for the authentication and delivery of
such Securities, (ii) if the terms and form or forms of the Securities of such
Series have been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution as permitted
by Section 2.02, a copy of such Board Resolution and any Officers' Certificate
that may be required pursuant to Section 2.02(b), and (iii) an Opinion of
Counsel stating, 

(1)  if the form of such
Securities has been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution as
permitted by Section 2.02, that such form has been established in conformity
with the provisions of this Indenture; 

(2)  if the terms of such
Securities have been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution as
permitted by Section 2.02, that such terms have been established in conformity
with the provisions of this Indenture; and 

(3)  that such Securities,
when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by SBC in the manner
and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will
constitute valid and legally binding obligations of SBC entitled to the benefits
of the Indenture. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 2.02 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a Series are
not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver
the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 2.02(b) or the
Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such
preceding paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each Security
of such Series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the time of
authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be
issued. 

If the terms and form or forms of such
Securities have been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution as
permitted by Section 2.02, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate
such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will
adversely affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the
Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably
acceptable to the Trustee. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, until
SBC has delivered an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee and the Registrar
stating that, as a result of the action described, SBC would not suffer adverse
consequences under the provisions of United States law or regulations in effect
at the time of the delivery of Unregistered Securities, (i) delivery of
Unregistered Securities by the Trustee or Registrar will be made only outside
the United States and (ii) Unregistered Securities will be released by the
Trustee or Registrar in definitive form to the person entitled to physical
delivery thereof only upon presentation of a certificate in the form prescribed
by SBC. 

(e)  If SBC shall establish
pursuant to Section 2.02 that the Securities of a Series are to be issued in
whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, then SBC shall
execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section and SBC's Order
with respect to such Series, authenticate and deliver one or more Global
Securities that (i) shall represent and shall be denominated in an amount equal
to the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities of such series to be
represented by one or more Global Securities; (ii) shall be registered in the
name of the Depository for such Global Security or Securities or the nominee of
such Depository, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Depository or
pursuant to such Depository's instruction and (iv) shall bear a legend
substantially to the following effect:  "This Security is a Global
Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is
registered in the name of a Depository or a nominee of a
Depository.  Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for
Securities in definitive form in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture
and the terms of the Securities, this Security may not be transferred except as
a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the
Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository or by the
Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such
successor Depository." 

Each depository designated pursuant to
Section 2.02 for a Global Security must, at the time of its designation and at
all times while it serves as Depository, be a clearing agency registered under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any other applicable
statute or regulation. 

(f)  The Trustee may appoint
an authenticating agent to authenticate Securities.  An authenticating
agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do
so.  Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee
includes authentication by such agent.  An authenticating agent has
the same rights as an Agent to deal with SBC or an Affiliate
thereof. 

SECTION
2.04   Registrar and Paying Agent. 

SBC shall maintain in the Borough of
Manhattan, The City of New York, State of New York, an office or agency where
Registered Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for
exchange ("Registrar") and an office or agency where (subject to Sections
2.05(c) and 2.08(b)) Securities may be presented for payment or for exchange
("Paying Agent").  With respect to any Series of Securities issued in
whole or in part as Unregistered Securities, SBC shall maintain one or more
Paying Agents located outside the United States and shall maintain such Paying
Agents for a period of two years after the principal of such Unregistered
Securities has become due and payable.  During any period thereafter
for which it is necessary in order to conform to United States tax law or
regulations, SBC will maintain a Paying Agent outside the United States to which
the Unregistered Securities or coupons appertaining thereto may be presented for
payment and will provide the necessary funds therefor to such Paying Agent upon
reasonable notice.  The Registrar shall keep a register with respect
to each Series of Securities issued in whole or in part as Registered Securities
and to their transfer and exchange.  SBC may appoint one or more
co-Registrars acceptable to the Trustee and one or more additional Paying Agents
for each Series of Securities and SBC may terminate the appointment of any
co-Registrar or Paying Agent at any time upon written notice.  The
term "Registrar" includes any co-Registrar.  The term "Paying Agent"
includes any additional Paying Agent.  SBC shall notify the Trustee of
the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture.  If
SBC fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as
such. 

SBC initially appoints the Trustee as
Registrar and Paying Agent. 

SECTION
2.05   Payment on Securities. 

(a)  Subject to the following
provisions, SBC will pay to the Trustee the amounts, in such coin or currency as
is at the time legal tender for the payment of public or private debt, in the
manner, at the times and for the purposes set forth herein and in the text of
the Securities for each Series, and SBC hereby authorizes and directs the
Trustee from funds so paid to it to make or cause to be made payment of the
principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities and coupons of each Series
as set forth herein and in the text of such Securities and
coupons.  The Trustee will arrange directly with any Paying Agents for
the payment, or the Trustee will make payment, from funds furnished by SBC, of
the principal and interest, if any, on the Securities and coupons of each Series
by check drawn upon a bank in The City of New York. 

(b)  Interest, if any, on
Registered Securities of a Series shall be paid on each interest payment date
for such Series to the Holder thereof at the close of business on the relevant
record dates specified in the Securities of such Series.  SBC may pay
such interest by check mailed to such Holder's address as it appears on the
register for Securities of such Series.  Principal of Registered
Securities shall be payable only against presentation and surrender thereof at
the office of the Paying Agent in New York, New York, unless SBC shall have
otherwise instructed the Trustee in writing. 

(c)  To the extent provided
in the Securities of a Series, (i) interest, if any, on Unregistered Securities
shall be paid only against presentation and surrender of the coupons for such
interest installments as are evidenced thereby as they mature and (ii) original
issue discount (as defined in Section 1273 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended), if any, on Unregistered Securities shall be paid only against
presentation and surrender of such Securities, in either case at the office of a
Paying Agent located outside of the United States, unless SBC shall have
otherwise instructed the Trustee in writing.  Principal of
Unregistered Securities shall be paid only against presentation and surrender
thereof as provided in the Securities of a Series.  If at the time a
payment of principal of or interest, if any, or original issue discount, if any,
on an Unregistered Security or coupon shall become due the payment of the full
amount so payable at the office or offices of all the Paying Agents outside the
United States is illegal or effectively precluded because of the imposition of
exchange controls or other similar restrictions on the payment of such amount in
the United States currency, then SBC may instruct the Trustee to make such
payments at the office of a Paying Agent located in the United States, provided
that provision for such payment in the United States would not cause such
Unregistered Security to be treated as a "registration-required obligation"
under United States law and regulations. 

SECTION
2.06   Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust. 

SBC will require each Paying Agent for
any Series of Securities other than the Trustee to agree in writing that it will
hold all sums held by it for the payment of principal of and interest on
Securities of that Series in trust for the benefit of the persons entitled
thereto until such sums are paid to such persons or otherwise disposed of as
herein provided, and that the Paying Agent will notify promptly the Trustee of
any default by SBC in making any such payment.  While any such default
continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to
the Trustee.  If SBC acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the
money held by it for the payment of principal of and interest on any Series of
Securities and hold such money as a separate trust fund.  SBC at any
time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the
Trustee.  Upon so doing the Paying Agent shall have no further
liability for the money so paid. 

SECTION
2.07   Securityholder Lists; Ownership of
Securities. 

(a)  The Trustee shall
preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list
received by or furnished to it of the names and addresses of Holders of
Securities.  If the Trustee is not the Registrar or if Unregistered
Securities are outstanding under the Indenture, SBC shall furnish to the Trustee
semiannually on or before the last day of June and December in each year, and at
such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list, in such form and
as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require, containing all the
information in the possession or control of the Registrar, any co-Registrar, SBC
or any of its Paying Agents other than the Trustee as to the names and addresses
of Holders of Securities. 

(b)  Ownership of Registered
Securities of a Series shall be proved by the register for such Series kept by
the Registrar.  Ownership of Unregistered Securities may be proved by
the production of such Unregistered Securities or by a certificate or affidavit
executed by the person holding such Unregistered Securities or by a depository
with whom such Unregistered Securities were deposited, if the certificate or
affidavit is satisfactory to the Trustee.  SBC, the Trustee, and any
agent of SBC may treat the bearer of any Unregistered Security or coupon and the
person in whose name a Registered Security is registered as the absolute owner
thereof for all purposes. 

(c)  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, with respect to any Global Security, nothing herein shall prevent
SBC, the Trustee or any agent of SBC or the Trustee from giving effect to any
written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by a Depository or
impair, as between a Depository and holders of beneficial interests in any
Global Security, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of
the rights of the Depository as Holder of such Global Security.  None
of SBC, the Trustee, any Paying agent or the Security Registrar will have any
responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or
payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Security
or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such
beneficial ownership interests. 

SECTION
2.08   Registration of Transfer and Exchange. 

(a)  When Registered
Securities of a Series are presented to the Registrar with a request to register
their transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Registered
Securities of the same Series and of like tenor of other authorized
denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange if
its customary requirements for such transactions are met. 

(b)  If both Registered and
Unregistered Securities are authorized for a Series of Securities and the terms
of such Securities permit, Unregistered Securities may be exchanged for an equal
principal amount of Registered or Unregistered Securities of the same Series and
of like tenor in any authorized denominations upon delivery to the Registrar (or
a Paying Agent, if the exchange is for Unregistered Securities) of the
Unregistered Security with all unmatured coupons and all matured coupons in
default appertaining thereto and if all other requirements of the Registrar (or
such Paying Agent) and such Securities for such exchange are met. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
exchange of Unregistered Securities for Registered Securities will be subject to
the satisfaction of the provisions of United States law and regulations in
effect at the time of such exchange, and no exchange will be made until SBC has
notified the Trustee and the Registrar that, as a result of such exchange, SBC
would not suffer adverse consequences under such law or
regulations. 

(c)  To permit registrations
of transfers and exchanges, the Trustee shall authenticate Securities upon
surrender of Securities for registration of transfer or for exchange as provided
in this Section.  SBC will not make any charge for any registration of
transfer or exchange but may require the payment by the party requesting such
registration of transfer or exchange of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or
other governmental charge payable in connection therewith, but not for any
exchange pursuant to Section 2.12, 3.06 or 9.05. 

(d)  Neither SBC nor the
Registrar shall be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange
Securities of any Series for the period beginning at the opening of business 15
days immediately preceding the selection of any such Securities to be redeemed
and ending at the close of business on the day of first publication of the
relevant notice of redemption or, if there is no publication, the mailing of the
relevant notice of redemption, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange
Securities of any Series selected, called or being called for redemption as a
whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Securities selected, called or
being called for redemption in part. 

(e)  Unregistered Securities
or any coupons appertaining thereto shall be transferable by
delivery. 

(f)  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, any Global Security shall be exchangeable pursuant to this Section
2.08 for Securities registered in the names of Persons other than the Depository
for such Security or its nominee only if (i) such Depository notifies SBC that
it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for such Global Security or
if at any time such Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (ii) SBC executes and delivers
to the Trustee an Order that such Global Security shall be so exchangeable or
(iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with
respect to the Securities.  Any Global Security that is exchangeable
pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for Securities
registered in such names as such Depository shall direct. 

Notwithstanding any other provision in
this Indenture, a Global Security may not be transferred except as a whole by
the Depository with respect to such Global Security to a nominee of such
Depository or by a nominee of such Depository to such Depository or another
nominee of such Depository. 

(g)  If at any time the
Depository for the Securities of a Series notifies SBC that it is unwilling or
unable to continue as Depository for the Securities of such Series or if at any
time the Depository for the Securities of such Series shall no longer be
eligible under Section 2.03, SBC shall appoint a successor Depository with
respect to the Securities of such Series. If a successor Depository for the
Securities of such Series is not appointed by SBC within 90 days after SBC
receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, SBC's election
pursuant to Section 2.02(15) shall no longer be effective with respect to the
Securities of such series and SBC will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of
the Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such
Series, will authenticate and deliver, Securities of such Series in definitive
form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the
Global Security or Securities representing such Series in exchange for such
Global Security or Securities. 

SBC may at any time and in its sole
discretion determine that the Securities of any series issued in the form of one
or more Global Securities shall no longer be represented by such Global Security
or Securities.  In such event SBC will execute, and the Trustee, upon
receipt of the Order for the authentication and delivery of the definitive
Securities of such Series, will authenticate and deliver, Securities of such
Series in definitive form and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
principal amount of the Global Security or Securities representing such Series
in exchange for such Global Security or Securities. 

If (a) there shall have occurred and be
continuing an Event of Default (as defined in Section 6.01) or an event which,
with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event
of Default with respect to a Series of Securities issued in the form of one or
more Global Securities, or (b) if specified by SBC pursuant to Section 2.02 with
respect to a Series of Securities, the Depository for such Series of Securities
may surrender a Global Security for such Series of Securities in exchange in
whole or in part for Securities of such Series in definitive
form.  Thereupon, SBC shall execute, and the Trustee shall
authenticate and deliver, without service closing charge: 

(i)  to each person specified
by such Depository a new Security or Securities of the same series, of any
authorized denomination as requested by such person in aggregate principal
amount equal to and in exchange for such person's beneficial interest in the
Global Security; and 

(ii)  to
such Depository a new Global Security in a denomination equal to the difference,
if any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Global Security and the
aggregate principal amount of Securities delivered to Holders
thereof. 

In any exchange provided for in any of
the preceding three paragraphs, SBC will execute and the Trustee will
authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form in authorized
denominations. 

Upon the exchange of a Global Security
for Securities in definitive form, such Global Security shall be canceled by the
Trustee.  Registered Securities issued in exchange for a Global
Security pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such names and in such
authorized denominations as the Depository for such Global Security, pursuant to
instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall
instruct the Trustee. 

SECTION
2.09   Replacement Securities. 

(a)  If a mutilated Security
or a Security with a mutilated coupon appertaining to it is surrendered to the
Trustee, SBC shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in
exchange therefor a replacement Registered Security, if such surrendered
security was a Registered Security, or a replacement Unregistered Security with
coupons corresponding to the coupons appertaining to the surrendered Security,
if such surrendered Security was an Unregistered Security, of the same Series
and of like tenor, if the Trustee's requirements are met. 

(b)  If the Holder of a
Security claims that the Security or any coupon appertaining thereto has been
lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, SBC shall issue (and the Trustee shall
authenticate) a replacement Registered Security of like tenor, if such Holder's
claim pertains to a Registered Security, or a replacement Unregistered Security
of like tenor with coupons corresponding to the coupons appertaining to the
lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken Unregistered Security or the Unregistered
Security to which such lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken coupon appertains, if
such Holder's claim pertains to an Unregistered Security, of the same Series and
of like tenor, if the Trustee's requirements are met; provided, however, that
the Trustee or SBC may require any such Holder to provide to the Trustee and SBC
security or indemnity sufficient in the judgment of SBC and the Trustee to
protect SBC, the Trustee, any Agent or any authenticating agent from any loss
which any of them may suffer if a Security or any coupon appertaining thereto is
replaced.  SBC may charge the party requesting a replacement Security
for its expenses in replacing a Security. 

(c)  Every replacement
Security is an additional obligation of SBC. 

(d)  The provisions of this
Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other
remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed,
lost or stolen Securities or coupons. 

SECTION
2.10   Outstanding Securities. 

(a)  Securities outstanding
at any time are all Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those
cancelled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, and those described in
this Section as not outstanding. 

(b)  If a Security is
replaced pursuant to Section 2.09, it ceases to be outstanding until the Trustee
receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Security is held by a bona
fide purchaser. 

(c)  If a Paying Agent (other
than SBC) holds on a redemption date or maturity date money sufficient to pay
all amounts due on Securities of any Series on that date, then on and after that
date all Securities of such Series due on such date cease to be outstanding and
interest on them ceases to accrue, provided that if the Securities are to be
redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this
Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been
made. 

(d)  A Security does not
cease to be outstanding because SBC or an Affiliate holds the
Security. 

(e)  In determining whether
the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities of any Series have
concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, (i) the principal amount of an
Original Issue Discount Security  that shall be deemed to be
outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and
payable as of the date of such determination upon acceleration of the maturity
thereof pursuant to Section 6.02 and (ii) the principal amount of a Security
denominated in a foreign currency or currencies shall be the U.S. dollar
equivalent, determined on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the
principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the
U.S. dollar equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security of the
amount determined as provided in (i) above) of such Security. 

SECTION
2.11   Treasury Securities. 

In determining whether the Holders of
the requisite principal amount of Securities of any Series have concurred in any
direction, waiver or consent, Securities of such Series owned by SBC or an
Affiliate shall be disregarded, except that for the purposes of determining
whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver
or consent, only Securities of such Series which the Trustee knows are so owned
shall be so disregarded.  Securities of such Series owned by SBC or
which have been pledged in good faith may be considered by the Trustee if the
pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right to so
act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not SBC or an
Affiliate. 

SECTION
2.12   Temporary Securities. 

(a)  Until definitive
Registered Securities of any Series are ready for delivery, SBC may prepare and
execute and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Registered Securities of
such Series.  Temporary Registered Securities of any Series shall be
substantially in the form of definitive Registered Securities of such Series but
may have variations that SBC considers appropriate for temporary
Securities.  Every temporary Registered Security shall be executed by
SBC and authenticated by the Trustee, and registered by the Registrar, upon the
same conditions, and with like effect, as a definitive Registered
Security.  Without unreasonable delay, SBC shall prepare and the
Trustee shall authenticate definitive Registered Securities of the same Series
and of like tenor in exchange for temporary Registered Securities. 

(b)  Until definitive
Unregistered Securities of any Series are ready for delivery, SBC may prepare
and execute and the Trustee shall authenticate one or more temporary
Unregistered Securities, which may have coupons attached or which may be in the
form of a single temporary global Unregistered Security of that Series without
coupons.  The temporary Unregistered Security or Securities of any
Series shall be substantially in the form approved by or pursuant to a Board
Resolution and shall be delivered to one of the Paying Agents located outside
the United States or to such other person or persons as SBC shall direct against
such certifications as SBC may from time to time prescribe.  The
temporary Unregistered Security or Securities of a Series shall be executed by
SBC and authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions, and with like
effect, as a definitive Unregistered Security of such Series, except as provided
herein or in the Board Resolution or supplemental indenture relating
thereto.  A temporary Unregistered Security or Securities shall be
exchangeable for definitive Unregistered Securities of like tenor at the time
and on the conditions, if any, specified in the temporary Security. 

Upon any exchange of a part of a
temporary Unregistered Security of a Series for definitive Unregistered
Securities of such Series and of like tenor, the temporary Unregistered Security
shall be endorsed by the Trustee or Paying Agent to reflect the reduction of its
principal amount by an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the
definitive Unregistered Securities of such Series and of like tenor so exchanged
and endorsed. 

SECTION
2.13   Cancellation. 

SBC at any time may deliver Securities
and coupons to the Trustee for cancellation.  The Registrar and the
Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities and coupons surrendered
to them for registration of transfer, for exchange or for
payment.  The Trustee shall cancel all Securities and coupons
surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation and
may dispose of cancelled Securities and coupons as SBC directs; provided,
however, that any Unregistered Securities of a Series delivered to the Trustee
for exchange prior to maturity shall be retained by the Trustee for reissue as
provided herein or in the Securities of such Series.  SBC may not
issue new Securities to replace Securities that it has paid or delivered to the
Trustee for cancellation, provided that the Trustee shall not be required to
destroy cancelled Securities but may be required to deliver such Securities to
SBC upon demand. 

SECTION
2.14  Defaulted Interest. 

If SBC defaults on a payment of
interest on a Series of Securities, SBC shall pay the defaulted interest as
provided in such Securities or in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with
the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be
listed and acceptable to the Trustee.  With respect to Registered
Securities, the Trustee may pay the defaulted interest, plus any interest
payable on the defaulted interest, to the Holders of such Registered Securities
on a subsequent special record date.  SBC shall fix the record date
and the payment date.  At least 15 days before the record date SBC
shall mail to such Holders a notice that states the record date, the payment
date and the amount of interest to be paid. 

SECTION
2.15  CUSIP Numbers. 

SBC in issuing the Securities may use
"CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use
"CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided
that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the
correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained
in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other
identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall
not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. 

ARTICLE
3 

REDEMPTION 

SECTION
3.01   Notice to Trustee. 

SBC may, with respect to any Series of
Securities, reserve the right to redeem and pay such Series of Securities or any
part thereof, or may covenant to redeem and pay the Series of Securities or any
part thereof, before maturity at such time and on such terms as provided for in
such Securities.  If a Series of Securities is redeemable and SBC
wants or is obligated to redeem all or part of the Series of Securities pursuant
to the terms of such Securities, it shall notify the Trustee of the redemption
date and the principal amount of the Series of Securities to be
redeemed.  SBC shall give such notice at least 75 days before the
redemption date (or such shorter notice as may be acceptable to the
Trustee). 

SECTION
3.02   Selection of Securities to be Redeemed. 

If less than all the Securities of a
Series are to be redeemed, the Trustee, not more than 75 days prior to the
redemption date, shall select the Securities of the Series to be redeemed pro
rata or by lot or in such other manner as the Trustee shall deem fair and
appropriate.  The Trustee shall make the selection from Securities of
the Series that are outstanding and that have not previously been called for
redemption.  Securities of the Series and portions of them selected by
the Trustee shall be in amounts of $1,000 or integral multiples of $1,000 or,
with respect to Securities of any Series issuable in other denominations
pursuant to Section 2.02(a)(8), in amounts equal to the minimum principal
denomination for each such Series and integral multiples
thereof.  Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities of
that Series called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities of that
Series called for redemption.  The Trustee shall promptly notify SBC
in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any
Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be
redeemed. 

SECTION
3.03  Notice of Redemption. 

(a)  At least 30 days but not
more than 60 days before a redemption date, SBC shall mail a notice of
redemption by first-class mail to each Holder of Registered Securities that are
to be redeemed. 

(b)  If Unregistered
Securities are to be redeemed, notice of redemption shall be published in an
Authorized Newspaper in each of The City of New York, London and, if such
Securities to be redeemed are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange,
Luxembourg twice in different calendar weeks, the first publication to be not
less than 30 nor more than 60 days before the redemption date. 

(c)  All notices shall
identify the Series of Securities to be redeemed and shall state: 

(1)  the redemption date;

(2)  the redemption price;

(3)  if less than all the
outstanding Securities of a Series are to be redeemed, the identification (and,
in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular
Securities to be redeemed; 

(4)  the name and address of
the Paying Agent; 

(5)  that Securities of the
Series called for redemption and all unmatured coupons, if any, appertaining
thereto must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
and 

(6)  that interest on
Securities of the Series called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the
redemption date. 

At SBC's request, the Trustee shall
give the notice of redemption in SBC's name and at its expense. 

SECTION
3.04   Effect of Notice of Redemption. 

Once notice of redemption is mailed or
published, Securities of a Series called for redemption become due and payable
on the redemption date at the redemption price.  Upon surrender to the
Paying Agent of such Securities together with all unmatured coupons, if any,
appertaining thereto, such Securities shall be paid at the redemption price plus
accrued interest to the redemption date, but installments of interest due on or
prior to the redemption date will be payable, in the case of Unregistered
Securities, to the bearers of the coupons for such interest upon surrender
thereof and, in the case of Registered Securities, to the Holders of such
Securities of record at the close of business on the relevant record
dates. 

SECTION
3.05   Deposit of Redemption Price. 

On or before the redemption date, SBC
shall deposit with the Trustee money sufficient to pay the redemption price of
and (unless the redemption date shall be an interest payment date) interest
accrued to the redemption date on all Securities to be redeemed on that
date. 

SECTION
3.06   Securities Redeemed in Part. 

Upon surrender of a Security that is
redeemed in part, SBC shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate for the
Holder of that Security a new Security or Securities of the same Series and like
tenor and the same form in authorized denominations equal in aggregate principal
amount to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered.  If a
Global Security is so surrendered, such new Security so issued shall be a new
Global Security. 

ARTICLE
4 

COVENANTS 

SECTION
4.01   Payment of Securities. 

SBC shall pay or cause to be paid the
principal of and interest on the Securities on the dates and in the manner
provided herein and in the Securities. 

SBC shall pay interest on overdue
principal of a Security of any Series at the rate of interest (or, in the case
of Original Issue Discount Securities, Yield to Maturity) borne by the
Securities of that Series, and, to the extent lawful, it shall pay interest on
overdue installments of interest at the same rate. 

SECTION
4.02   Reports by SBC. 

SBC agrees: 

(a)  to file with the
Trustee, within 15 days after SBC is required to file the same with the SEC,
copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports
(or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may from time to
time by rules and regulations prescribe) which SBC may be required to file with
the SEC pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended; or, if SBC is not required to file information, documents
or reports pursuant to either of such sections, then to file with the Trustee
and the SEC, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to
time by the SEC, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents
and reports which may be required pursuant to section 13 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in respect of a security listed and registered
on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such
rules and regulations; 

(b)  to file with the Trustee
and the SEC, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time
to time by the SEC, such additional information, documents, and reports with
respect to compliance by SBC with the conditions and covenants provided for in
this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and
regulations; and 

(c)  to transmit by mail to
all Holders of Registered Securities, as the names and addresses of such Holders
appear on the register for each Series of Securities, to such Holders of
Unregistered Securities as have, within the two years preceding such
transmission, filed their names and addresses with the Trustee for that purpose
and to all Holders of Securities whose names and addresses have been furnished
to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.07, within 30 days after the filing thereof
with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports
required to be filed by the SBC pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this
Section 4.02 as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to
time by the SEC. 

SECTION
4.03  Statement as to Compliance. 

SBC will deliver to the Trustee
annually, commencing March 1, 1998, a certificate, from its principal executive
officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer, stating
whether or not to the best knowledge of the signer thereof the Company is in
compliance (without regard to periods of grace or notice requirements) with all
conditions and covenants under this Indenture, and if SBC shall not be in
compliance, specifying such non-compliance and the nature and status thereof of
which such signer may have knowledge. 

SECTION
4.04  Calculation of Original Issue Discount. 

SBC shall file with the Trustee
promptly at the end of each calendar year a written notice specifying the amount
of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued
on outstanding Securities as of the end of such year. 

ARTICLE
5 

SUCCESSORS 

SECTION
5.01   When SBC May Merge, etc. 

SBC may not consolidate with, or
merge into, or be merged into, or transfer or lease its properties and assets
substantially as an entirety to, any person, unless the person is a corporation
organized under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District
of Columbia, the person assumes by supplemental indenture all the obligations of
SBC under this Indenture and the Securities and any coupons appertaining
thereto, shall have provided for conversion or exchange rights in accordance
with the terms of any Securities contemplating conversion or exchange pursuant
to Section 2.01(a)(14),    and,
after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred
and be continuing.  The surviving, transferee or lessee corporation
shall be the successor to SBC and SBC, except in the case of a lease, shall be
relieved of all obligations under this Indenture and the
Securities. 

ARTICLE
6 

DEFAULTS
AND REMEDIES 

SECTIONS
6.01   Events of Default. 

An "Event of Default" occurs with
respect to the Securities of any Series if: 

(1)  SBC defaults in the
payment of interest on any Security of that Series when the same becomes due and
payable and the Default continues for a period of 90 days; 

(2)  SBC defaults in the
payment of the principal of any Security of that Series when the same becomes
due and payable at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise; 

(3)  SBC fails to comply with
any of its other agreements in the Securities of that Series, or in any
supplemental indenture under which the Securities of that Series may have been
issued or in the Indenture (other than an agreement included solely for the
benefit of Series of Securities other than that Series) and the Default
continues for the period and after the notice specified below; 

(4)  SBC pursuant to or
within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law: 

(A)  commences a voluntary
case, 

(B)  consents to the entry of
an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, 

(C)  consents to the
appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its
property, or 

(D)  makes a general
assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or 

(5)  a court of competent
jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law
that: 

(A)  is for relief against
SBC in an involuntary case, 

(B)  appoints a Custodian of
SBC or for all or substantially all of its property, or 

(C)  orders the liquidation
of SBC, and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60
days. 

The term "Bankruptcy Law" means Title
11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of
debtors.  The term "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee,
liquidator or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law. 

A Default under clause (3) is not an
Event of Default until the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal
amount of all the outstanding Securities of that Series notify SBC (and the
Trustee in the case of notification by such Holders) of the Default and SBC does
not cure the Default within 90 days after receipt of the notice.  The
notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that the
notice is a "Notice of Default". 

Upon receipt by the Trustee of any
Notice of Default pursuant to this Section 6.01 with respect to Securities of a
Series all or part of which is represented by a Global Security, a record date
shall be established for determining Holders of outstanding Securities of such
Series entitled to join in such Notice of Default, which record date shall be at
the close of business on the day the Trustee receives such Notice of
Default.  The Holders on such record date, or their duly designated
proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such Notice of
Default, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date;
 provided , that
unless Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities
of such Series, or their proxies, shall have joined in such Notice of Default
prior to the day which is 90 days after such record date, such Notice of Default
shall automatically and without further action by any Holder be canceled and of
no further effect.  Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder,
or a proxy of a Holder, from giving, after expiration of such 90-day period, a
new Notice of Default identical to a Notice of Default which has been canceled
pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in which event a new record
date shall be established pursuant to the provisions of this Section
6.01. 

SECTION
6.02   Acceleration. 

If an Event of Default occurs with
respect to the Securities of any Series and is continuing, the Trustee, by
notice to SBC, or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all of the
outstanding Securities of that Series, by notice to SBC and the Trustee, may
declare the principal (or, if any of the Securities of that Series are Original
Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such
Securities as may be specified in the terms thereof) of, and any accrued
interest on, all the Securities of that Series to be due and
payable.  Upon such declaration, such principal (or, in the case of
Original Issue Discount Securities, such specified amount) and any accrued
interest shall be due and payable immediately.  The Holders of a
majority in principal amount of all of the Securities of that Series, by notice
to SBC and the Trustee, may rescind such acceleration and its consequences if
the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all
existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of
principal or interest that have become due solely because of the
acceleration. 

Upon receipt by the Trustee of any
declaration of acceleration, or rescission thereof, with respect to Securities
of a Series all or part of which is represented by a Global Security, the
Trustee shall establish a record date for determining Holders of outstanding
Securities of such Series entitled to join in such declaration of acceleration,
or rescission, as the case may be, which record date shall be at the close of
business on the date the Trustee receives such declaration of acceleration, or
rescission, as the case may be.  The Holders on such record date, or
their duly designated proxies, and only such persons, shall be entitled to join
in such declaration of acceleration, or rescission, as the case may be, whether
or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date;  provided , that unless
such declaration of acceleration, or rescission, as the case may be, shall have
become effective by virtue of the requisite percentage having been obtained
prior to the day which is 90 days after such record date, such declaration of
acceleration, or rescission, as the case may be, shall automatically and without
further action by any Holder be canceled and of no further
effect.  Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder, or a proxy
of a Holder, from giving, after expiration of such 90-day period, a new
declaration of acceleration, or rescission thereof, as the case may be, that is
identical to a declaration of acceleration, or rescission thereof, which has
been canceled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in which even a
new record date shall be established pursuant to the provisions of this Section
6.02. 

SECTION
6.03   Other Remedies Available to Trustee. 

(a)  If an Event of Default
occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect
the payment of principal of and interest on the Securities of the Series that is
in Default or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities of
that Series or this Indenture. 

(b)  The Trustee may maintain
a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Securities or does not
produce any of them in the proceeding.  A delay or omission by the
Trustee or any Securityholder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an
Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of
or acquiescence in the Event of Default.  To the extent permitted by
law no remedy is exclusive of any other remedy and all available remedies are
cumulative. 

SECTION
6.04   Waiver of Existing Defaults. 

The Holders of a majority in principal
amount of any Series of Securities by notice to the Trustee may waive an
existing Default with respect to that Series and its consequences except a
Default in the payment of principal of or interest on any Security. 

SBC may, but shall not be obligated to,
fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Persons entitled to waive
any past default hereunder.  If a record date is fixed, the Holders on
such record date, or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall
be entitled to waive any default hereunder, whether or not such Holders remain
Holders after such record date;  provided , that unless
such majority in principal amount shall have waived such default prior to the
date which is 90 days after such record date, any such waiver previously given
shall automatically and without further action by any Holder be canceled and of
no further effect. 

SECTION
6.05   Control by Majority. 

The Holders of a majority in principal
amount of the Securities of each Series affected (with each such Series voting
as a class) may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding
for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power
conferred on it with respect to Securities of that Series.  However,
the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this
Indenture or that is unduly prejudicial to the rights of the Securityholders of
that Series. 

Upon receipt by the Trustee of any such
direction with respect to Securities of a Series all or part of which is
represented by a Global Security, the Trustee shall establish a record date for
determining Holders of outstanding Securities of such Series entitled to join in
such direction, which record date shall be at the close of business on the day
the Trustee receives such direction.  The Holders on such record date,
or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to
join in such direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such
record date;  provided , that unless
such majority in principal amount shall have been obtained prior to the day
which is 90 days after such record date, such direction shall automatically and
without further action by any Holder be canceled and of no further
effect.  Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder, or a proxy
of a Holder, from giving, after expiration of such 90-day period, a new
direction identical to a direction which has been canceled pursuant to the
proviso to the preceding sentence, in which event a new record date shall be
established pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6.05. 

SECTION
6.06   Limitation on Suits by Securityholders. 

A Securityholder may pursue a remedy
with respect to this Indenture or the Securities of any Series only
if: 

(1)  the Holder gives to the
Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to
Securities of that Series; 

(2)  the Holders of at least
25% in principal amount of the Securities of that Series make a written request
to the Trustee to pursue the remedy; 

(3)  such Holder or Holders
offer to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss,
liability or expense to be, or which may be, incurred by the Trustee in pursuing
the remedy; 

(4)  the Trustee does not
comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the
offer of indemnity; and 

(5)  during such 60-day
period, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that
Series do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the
request. 

A Securityholder of any Series may not
use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Securityholder of that
Series or any other Series or to obtain a preference or priority over another
Securityholder of that Series or any other Series. 

SECTION
6.07   Rights of Holders to Receive Payment. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Security to receive payment of
principal of and (subject to Section 2.14) interest on the Security (whether at
maturity or upon redemption), on or after the respective due dates expressed in
the Security, the right of any Holder of a Security of a Series the terms of
which provide for conversion or exchange as contemplated in Section 2.01(a)(14)
to have the Security be converted or exchanged as so provided, and the right of
any Holder of a coupon to receive payment of (subject to Section 2.14) interest
due as provided in such coupon, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such
payment on or after such respective dates or any such conversion or exchange
right, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such
Holder. 

SECTION
6.08   Collection Suits by Trustee. 

If an Event of Default specified in
Section 6.01(1) or (2) occurs with respect to Securities of any Series and is
continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of
an express trust against SBC for the whole amount of the principal of and
interest on Securities of that Series remaining unpaid. 

SECTION.
6.09   Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. 

The Trustee may file such proofs of
claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable, and take
any and all actions authorized under the TIA, in order to have the claims of the
Trustee and the Securityholders allowed in any judicial proceedings relating to
SBC (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its creditors or its
property. 

SECTION
6.10   Priorities. 

If the Trustee collects any money
pursuant to this Article, it shall pay out the money in the following
order: 

FIRST:  to the Trustee for
amounts due under Section 7.07; 

SECOND:  to Holders of
Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been
collected for amounts due and unpaid on such Securities for principal and
interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the
amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and interest,
respectively; and 

THIRD:  to SBC. 

The Trustee may fix a record date (with
respect to Registered Securities) and payment date for any such payment to
Holders of Securities. 

SECTION
6.11   Undertaking for Costs. 

In any suit for the enforcement of any
right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any
action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require
the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs
of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable attorneys'
fees, against any party litigant in the suit, in the manner and to the extent
provided in the TIA.  This Section does not apply to a suit by SBC,
the Trustee, a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07, or a Holder or Holders of more
than 10% in principal amount of the Securities of any Series. 

ARTICLE
7 

TRUSTEE 

SECTION
7.01   Duties of Trustee. 

(a) The duties and responsibilities of
the Trustee shall be as provided by the TIA.  If an Event of Default
has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of its rights
and powers under this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in
their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances
in the conduct of his own affairs. 

(b)  Except during the
continuance of an Event of Default: 

(1)  Subject to the
provisions of the TIA, the Trustee need perform only those duties that are
specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or
obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee. 

(2)  In the absence of bad
faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the
statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon
certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the
requirements of this Indenture.  However, the Trustee shall examine
the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the
requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy
of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). 

(c)  The Trustee may not be
relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure
to act or its own willful misconduct, except that: 

(1)  This paragraph does not
limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section. 

(2)  The Trustee shall not be
liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer,
unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent
facts. 

(3)  The Trustee shall not be
liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in
accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section
6.05. 

(d)  Every provision of this
Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) of this Section. 

(e)  The Trustee may refuse
to perform any duty or exercise any right or power unless it receives indemnity
satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. 

(f)  The Trustee shall not be
liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree
with SBC.  Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated
from other funds except to the extent required by law. 

(g)  Except as expressly
provided herein, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to
expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the
performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its
rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that
repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is
not reasonably assured to it. 

SECTION
7.02   Rights of Trustee. 

(a)  The Trustee may rely on
any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented
by the proper person.  The Trustee need not investigate any fact or
matter stated in the document. 

        (b)  Before the Trustee acts
or refrains from acting, it may consult with counsel of its selection after
consultation with SBC or require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of
Counsel.  The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or
omits to take in good faith in reliance on a Board Resolution, an Officers'
Certificate, an Opinion of Counsel or the advice of counsel selected in
consultation with SBC. 

(c)  The Trustee may act
through agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of
any agent appointed with due care. 

(d)  The Trustee shall not be
liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes
to be authorized or within its rights or powers. 

(e)  The Trustee shall be
under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this
Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this
Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable
security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be
incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction. 

SECTION
7.03   Individual Rights of Trustee. 

The Trustee in its individual or any
other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise
deal with SBC or an Affiliate with the same rights it would have if it were not
Trustee.  Any Agent may do the same with like
rights.  However, the Trustee is subject to Sections 7.10 and
7.11. 

SECTION
7.04   Trustee's Disclaimer. 

The Trustee makes no representation as
to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, shall not be
accountable for SBC's use of the proceeds from the Securities and shall not be
responsible for any statement in the Securities other than its certificate of
authentication. 

SECTION
7.05   Notice of Defaults. 

If a Default occurs and is continuing
with respect to the Securities of any Series and if it is known to the Trustee,
the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of a Security of that Series entitled to
receive reports pursuant to Section 4.02(c) (and, if Unregistered Securities of
that Series are outstanding, shall cause to be published at least once in an
Authorized Newspaper in each of The City of New York, London and, if Securities
of that Series are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, Luxembourg) notice
of the Default as and to the extent provided by the TIA.  Except in
the case of a Default in payment on the Securities of any Series, the Trustee
may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible
Officers in good faith determines that withholding such notice is in the
interests of Securityholders of that Series. 

SECTION
7.06   Reports by Trustee to Holders. 

(a)  Within 60 days after
each anniversary date of the first issue of a Series of Securities, the Trustee
shall mail to each Securityholder of that Series entitled to receive reports
pursuant to Section 4.02(c) a brief report, dated as of such date, that complies
with TIA Section 313(a).  The Trustee also shall comply with TIA
Section 313(b)(2). 

(b)  At the time that it
mails such a report to Securityholders of any Series, the Trustee shall file a
copy of that report with the SEC and with each stock exchange on which the
Securities of that Series are listed.  SBC shall provide written
notice to the Trustee when the Securities of any Series are listed on any stock
exchange. 

SECTION
7.07   Compensation and Indemnity. 

(a)  SBC shall pay to the
Trustee from time to time such compensation as SBC and the Trustee shall from
time to time agree in writing for all services rendered by the Trustee
hereunder.  The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law
on compensation of a trustee of an express trust.  SBC shall reimburse
the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by
it in connection with the performance of its duties under this
Indenture.  Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation
and out-of-pocket expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel. 

(b)  SBC shall indemnify each
of the Trustee or any successor Trustee for, and hold the Trustee harmless
against, any and all loss, damage, claims, liability or expense, including taxes
(other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the
Trustee), arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration
of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the reasonable costs and expenses of
defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise
or performance of any of the Trustee's powers or duties hereunder, except to the
extent that such loss, damage, claim, liability or expense is due to the
Trustee's own negligence or bad faith.  The Trustee shall notify SBC
promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity.  SBC shall
defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense.  The
Trustee may have separate counsel and SBC shall pay the reasonable fees and
expenses of such counsel.  SBC need not pay for any settlement made
without its consent. 

(c)  SBC need not reimburse
any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability incurred by the Trustee
through its negligence or bad faith. 

(d)  To secure the payment
obligations of SBC pursuant to this Section, the Trustee shall have a lien prior
to the Securities of any Series on all money or property held or collected by
the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal of and interest on
particular Securities of a Series. 

(e)  If the Trustee incurs
expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section
6.01(4) or (5) occurs, such expenses and the compensation for such services are
intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy
Law. 

(f)  The provisions of this
Section 7.07 shall survive termination of this Indenture and the resignation or
removal of the Trustee. 

SECTION
7.08   Replacement of Trustee. 

(a)  The resignation or
removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee shall become
effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as
provided in this Section. 

(b)  The Trustee may resign
with respect to the Securities of any Series by so notifying SBC.  The
Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any Series may
remove the Trustee with respect to that Series by so notifying the Trustee and
SBC.  SBC may remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of any
Series if: 

(1)  the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;

(2)  the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an
insolvent;

(3)  a receiver or public
officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or 

(4)  the Trustee becomes
incapable of acting. 

(c)  If the Trustee resigns
or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason
with respect to Securities of any Series, SBC shall promptly appoint a successor
Trustee for such Series.  Within one year after a successor Trustee
with respect to the Securities of any Series takes office the Holders of a
majority in principal amount of Securities of that Series may appoint a
successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of that Series to replace the
successor Trustee appointed by SBC. 

(d)  If a successor Trustee
with respect to the Securities of any Series does not take office within 60 days
after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, SBC or
the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Securities of the
applicable Series may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the
appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such
Series. 

(e)  If the Trustee with
respect to the Securities of any Series fails to comply with Section 7.10, any
Securityholder of the applicable Series may petition any court of competent
jurisdiction for the removal of such Trustee and the appointment of a successor
Trustee. 

(f)  A successor Trustee
shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee
and SBC.  Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring
Trustee for any Series of Securities shall become effective, and the successor
Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee
with respect to all Series of Securities for which the successor Trustee is to
be acting as Trustee under this Indenture.  The retiring Trustee shall
promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee with respect to such Series
of Securities to the successor Trustee subject to the lien provided for in
Section 7.07.  SBC shall give notice of each appointment of a
successor Trustee for any Series of Securities by mailing written notice of such
event by first-class mail to the Holders of Securities of such Series entitled
to receive reports pursuant to Section 4.03(c) and, if any Unregistered
Securities are outstanding, by publishing notice of such event once in an
Authorized Newspaper in each of The City of New York, London, and, if Securities
of that Series are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange,
Luxembourg. 

(g)  All provisions of this
Section 7.08 except subparagraphs (b)(1), (e) and (h) and the words "subject to
the lien provided for in Section 7.07" in subparagraph (f) shall apply also to
any Paying Agent located outside the United States and its possessions and
required by Section 2.04. 

(h)  In case of the
appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of
one or more (but not all) Series, SBC, the retiring Trustee and such successor
Trustee shall execute and deliver a supplemental indenture wherein such
successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such
provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to
vest in, such successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the
retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those Series to which
the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee
is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as
shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers,
trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that
or those Series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue
to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the
provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate
the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being
understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall
constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such
Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from
any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such
Trustee. 

SECTION
7.09   Successor Trustee, Agents by Merger, etc. 

If the Trustee or any Agent
consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially
all of its corporate trust business assets to, another corporation, the
successor corporation, without any further act, shall be the successor Trustee
or Agent, as the case may be. 

SECTION
7.10   Eligibility; Disqualification. 

This Indenture shall always have a
Trustee with respect to each Series of Securities which satisfies the
requirements of TIA Section 310(a)(1).  The Trustee shall always have
a combined capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000, as set forth in its
most recent published annual report of condition.  If the Trustee has
or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the TIA, the
Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the
manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the TIA and this
Indenture.  To the extent permitted by the TIA, the Trustee shall not
be deemed to have a conflicting interest by virtue of being a trustee under this
Indenture with respect to Securities of more than one Series or a trustee under
all indentures now or hereafter existing pursuant to which indenture securities
have been issued on which SBC is an obligor and which may be excluded under the
proviso of TIA Section 310(b)(1). 

SECTION
7.11   Preferential Collection of Claims Against
SBC. 

If and when the Trustee shall be or
become a creditor of SBC (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee
shall be subject to the provisions of the TIA regarding the collection of claims
against SBC (or any such other obligor). 

ARTICLE
8 

DISCHARGE
OF INDENTURE 

SECTION
8.01   Termination of SBC's Obligations. 

(a)  SBC reserves the right
to terminate all of its obligations under (i) this Indenture and the Securities,
or (ii) the Securities of any Series if SBC irrevocably deposits in trust with
the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay, when due,
the principal of and any interest on all the Securities or all the Securities of
that Series, as the case may be, to maturity or redemption and if all other
conditions set forth in the Securities of that Series are
met.  However, SBC's obligations in Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 2.07,
2.08, 2.09, 2.15, 4.01, 7.07, 7.08, 8.03 and 8.04 shall survive until the
Securities are no longer outstanding.  Thereafter SBC's obligations in
Sections 7.07, 8.03 and 8.04 shall survive.  Unless otherwise provided
in the terms of Securities of a Series that are convertible or exchangeable as
contemplated in Section 2.01(a)(14), SBC shall not be entitled to terminate its
obligations under the Securities of that Series pursuant to this Section
8.01. 

(b)  Before or after a
deposit SBC may make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the redemption
of Securities at a future date in accordance with Article 3. 

(c)  After a deposit by SBC
in accordance with this Section in respect of the Securities of a Series, the
Trustee upon request shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of SBC's
obligations under the Securities of the Series in respect of which the deposit
has been made and this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that Series
except for those surviving obligations specified above. 

(d)  In order to have money
available on a payment date to pay principal of and interest on the Securities
of any Series, the U.S. Government Obligations shall be payable as to principal
or interest on or before such payment date in such amounts as will provide the
necessary money. 

(e)  "U.S. Government
Obligations" means: 

(i)  direct obligations of
the United States of America for the payment of which the full faith and credit
of the United States of America are pledged; or 

(ii)  obligations of a person
controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the
United States of America pursuant to authority granted by the Congress of the
United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a
full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America; 

provided,
however, that U.S. Government Obligations shall not be callable at the issuer's
option. 

SECTION
8.02   Application of Trust Money. 

The Trustee shall hold in trust all
money or U.S. Government Obligations deposited with it pursuant to Section
8.01.  It shall apply the deposited money and the money from U.S.
Government Obligations through the Paying Agent and in accordance with this
Indenture to the payment of principal of and interest on the Securities of each
Series in respect of which the deposit shall have been made. 

SECTION
8.03   Repayment to SBC. 

(a)  The Trustee and the
Paying Agent shall promptly pay to SBC upon request any excess money or
securities held by them at any time. 

(b)  The Trustee and the
Paying Agent shall pay to SBC upon request any money held by them for the
payment of principal or interest that remains unclaimed for two years after such
principal or interest became due.  After payment to SBC,
Securityholders entitled to the money must look to SBC for payment as general
creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another
person. 

SECTION
8.04   Indemnity for Government Obligations. 

SBC shall pay and shall indemnify the
Trustee and each Securityholder of each Series in respect of which the deposit
shall have been made against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed
against deposited U.S. Government Obligations or the principal and interest
received on such obligations. 

ARTICLE
9 

AMENDMENTS
AND WAIVERS 

SECTION
9.01   Without Consent of Holders. 

SBC and the Trustee may enter into one
or more supplemental indentures without consent of any Securityholder for any of
the following purposes: 

(1)  to cure any ambiguity,
defect or inconsistency herein or in the Securities of any Series; 

(2)  to provide for the
issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of Securities of any
Series as provided in Section 2.02, and to establish the form of any
certifications required to be furnished pursuant to the terms of this Indenture
or any Series of Securities; 

(3)  to secure the Securities
pursuant to Section 4.02; 

(4)  to comply with Section
5.01 or 5.02; 

(5)  to provide for
uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated
Securities; 

(6)  to add to the rights of
the Holders of any Series of Securities or to surrender any right or power
herein conferred on SBC; 

(7)  to make provision with
respect to the conversion or exchange rights of Holders pursuant to the
requirements of the terms of Securities of a Series that is convertible or
exchangeable as contemplated in Section 2.01(a)(14); or 

(8)  to make any change that
does not adversely affect the rights of any Securityholder. 

SECTION
9.02   With Consent of Holders. 

(a)  With the written consent
of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities
of each Series affected by such supplemental indenture (with each Series voting
as a class), SBC and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture to add
any provisions to or to change or eliminate any provisions of this Indenture or
of any supplemental indenture or to modify, in each case in any manner not
covered by Section 9.01, the rights of the Securityholders of each such
Series.  The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the
outstanding Securities of each Series affected by such waiver (with each Series
voting as a class), by notice to the Trustee, may waive compliance by SBC with
any provision of this Indenture, any supplemental indenture or the Securities of
any such Series except a Default in the payment of the principal of or interest
on a Security.  However, without the consent of each Securityholder
affected, an amendment or waiver may not: 

(1)  reduce the amount of
Securities whose Holders must consent to an amendment or waiver; 

(2)  reduce the rate of or
change the time for payment of interest on any Security; 

(3)  reduce the principal of
or change the fixed maturity of any Security; 

(4)  waive a Default in the
payment of the principal of or interest on any Security; 

(5)  make any Security
payable in currency other than that stated in the Security; 

(6)  adversely affect the
right to convert or exchange, as provided in the terms thereof, any Security
that is convertible or exchangeable as contemplated in Section 2.01(a)(14);
or 

(7)  make any change in
Section 6.04, 6.07 or 9.02(a) (third sentence). 

(b)  SBC may, but shall not
be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Persons
entitled to consent to any indenture supplemental hereto.  If a record
date is fixed, the Holders on such record date, or their duly designated
proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to consent to such
supplemental indenture, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such
record date;  provided , that unless
such consent shall have become effective by virtue of the requisite percentage
having been obtained prior to the date which is 90 days after such record date,
any such consent previously given shall automatically and without further action
by any Holder be canceled and of no further effect. 

(c)  It is not necessary
under this Section 9.02 for the Security- holders to consent to the particular
form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it is sufficient if they
consent to the substance thereof. 

(d)  Promptly after the
execution by SBC and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the
provisions of this Section 9.02, SBC shall transmit by mail a notice, setting
forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture, to all
Holders of Registered Securities, as the names and addresses of such Holders
appear on the register for each Series of Securities, and to such Holders of
Unregistered Securities as are entitled to receive reports pursuant to Section
4.02(c).  Any failure of SBC to mail such notice, or any defect
therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any
such supplemental indenture. 

SECTION
9.03   Compliance with Trust Indenture Act. 

Every amendment to this Indenture or
the Securities of one or more Series shall be set forth in a supplemental
indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect. 

SECTION
9.04   Revocation and Effect of Consents. 

Until an amendment or waiver becomes
effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Security is a continuing consent by
the Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Security or portion of a Security
that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security, even if
notation of the consent is not made on any Security.  However, any
such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent as to his Security or
portion of a Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before
the date the amendment or waiver becomes effective.  After an
amendment or waiver becomes effective, it shall bind every Securityholder of
each Series affected by such amendment or waiver. 

SECTION
9.05   Notation on or Exchange of Securities. 

The Trustee may place an appropriate
notation about an amendment or waiver on any Security of any Series thereafter
authenticated.  SBC in exchange for Securities of that Series may
issue and the Trustee shall authenticate new Securities of that Series that
reflect the amendment or waiver. 

SECTION
9.06   Trustee Protected. 

The Trustee need not sign any
supplemental indenture that is reasonably likely to adversely affect its
rights. 

SECTION
9.07  Execution of Supplemental Indentures. 

In executing, or accepting the
additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this
Article or the modification thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the
Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying
upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental
indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. 

ARTICLE
10 

MISCELLANEOUS 

SECTION
10.01   Trust Indenture Act Controls. 

If any provision of this Indenture
limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision of the TIA that is
required under the TIA to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter
provision shall control.  If any provision of this Indenture modifies
or excludes any provision of the TIA which may be so modified or excluded, the
latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to
be excluded, as the case may be. 

SECTION
10.02   Notices. 

(a)  Any notice or
communication by SBC or the Trustee to the other is duly given if in writing and
delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail: 

if to SBC to: 

SBC Communications Inc. 

        175 E. Houston Street 

        San Antonio, Texas
78205-4105 

Attention:Assistant
Treasurer-Corporate Finance 

if to the Trustee to: 

The Bank of New York 

        101 Barclay Street 

        Floor 21 West 

        New York, New
York  10286 

Attention:  Corporate Trust
Administration 

(b)  SBC or the Trustee by
notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for
subsequent notices or communications. 

(c)  Any notice or
communication to Holders of Securities entitled to receive reports pursuant to
Section 4.02(c) shall be mailed by first-class mail to the addresses for Holders
of Registered Securities shown on the register kept by the Registrar and to
addresses filed with the Trustee for other Holders.  Failure to so
mail a notice or communication or any defect in such notice or communication
shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders of Securities of
that or any other Series entitled to receive notice. 

(d)  If a notice or
communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed,
it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it. 

(e)  If SBC mails a notice or
communication to Securityholders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and to
each Agent at the same time. 

(f)  If it shall be
impractical in the opinion of the Trustee or SBC to make any publication of any
notice required hereby in an Authorized Newspaper, any publication or other
notice in lieu thereof which is made or given with the approval of the Trustee
shall constitute a sufficient publication of such notice. 

(g)  All other notices or
communications will be in writing. 

(h)  All notices or other
communications given to the Trustee shall be effective when actually received by
the Trustee. 

SECTION
10.03   Communication by Holders with Other Holders. 

The rights of Holders to communicate
with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under
the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee,
shall be as provided by the TIA. 

SECTION
10.04   Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions
Precedent. 

Upon any request or application by SBC
to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, SBC shall furnish to the
Trustee: 

(1)  an Officers' Certificate
stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any,
provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been
complied with; and 

(2)  an Opinion of Counsel
stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have
been complied with. 

SECTION
10.05   Statements Required in Certificate or
Opinion. 

Each certificate or opinion with
respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this
Indenture shall comply with the requirements of the TIA and shall
include: 

(1)  a statement that the
person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition
and related definitions; 

(2)  a brief statement as to
the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the
statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are
based; 

(3)  a statement that, in the
opinion of such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is
necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such
covenant or condition has been complied with; and 

(4)  a statement as to
whether or not, in the opinion of such person, such condition or covenant has
been complied with. 

SECTION
10.06   Rules by Trustee and Agents. 

The Trustee may make reasonable rules
for action by or a meeting of Securityholders of one or more
Series.  The Paying Agent or Registrar may make reasonable rules and
set reasonable requirements for its functions. 

SECTION
10.07   Legal Holidays. 

A "Legal Holiday" is a Saturday, a
Sunday or a day on which banking institutions are not required to be
open.  If a payment date or a date for conversion or exchange is a
Legal Holiday at a place of payment, conversion or exchange, then such payment,
conversion or exchange may be made at such place on the next succeeding day this
is not a Legal Holiday with the same force and effect as if made on such date,
and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period. 

SECTION
10.08   Governing Law. 

The laws of the State of New York shall
govern this Indenture, the Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto
without regard to principles of conflicts of laws. 

SECTION
10.09   No Adverse Interpretation of Other
Agreements. 

This Indenture may not be used to
interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of SBC or any
Affiliate.  No such indenture, loan or debt agreement may be used to
interpret this Indenture. 

SECTION
10.10   No Recourse Against Others. 

No director, officer, employee or
stockholder, as such, of SBC shall have any liability for any obligation of SBC
under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of
or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  Each
Securityholder by accepting a Security waives and releases all such
liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for
the issue of the Securities. 

SECTION
10.11  Acts of Holders. 

(a)  Any request, demand,
authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by
this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced
by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders
in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein
otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such
instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby
expressly required, to SBC.  Such instrument or instruments (and the
action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to
as the "Act" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments.  Proof
of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent
shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of
the Trustee and SBC, if made in the manner provided in this
Section. 

(b)  The fact and date of the
execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be provided by the
affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public
or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying
that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the
execution thereof.  Where such execution is by a signer acting in a
capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall
also constitute sufficient proof of his authority.  The fact and date
of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the
Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the
Trustee deems sufficient. 

(c)  The ownership of
Unregistered Securities may be proved by the production of such Unregistered
Securities or by a certificate executed by any trust company, bank, banker or
other depository, wherever situated, if such certificate shall be deemed by the
Trustee to be satisfactory, showing that at the date therein mentioned such
Person has on deposit with such depository, or exhibited to it, the Unregistered
Securities therein described; or such facts may be proved by the certificate or
affidavit of the Person holding such Unregistered Securities, if such
certificate or affidavit is deemed by the Trustee to be
satisfactory.  The Trustee and SBC may assume that such ownership of
any Unregistered Security continues until (i) another such certificate or
affidavit bearing a later date issued in respect of the same Unregistered
Security is produced, (ii) such Unregistered Security is produced to the Trustee
by some other Person, (iii) such Unregistered Security is surrendered in
exchange for a Registered Security or (iv) such Unregistered Security is no
longer outstanding.  The ownership of Unregistered Securities may also
be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient. 

(d)  The ownership of
Registered Securities shall be proved by the Registrar. 

(e)  Any request, demand,
authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of
any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the holder
of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in
exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or
suffered to be done by the Trustee or SBC in reliance thereon, whether or not
notation of such action is made upon such Security. 

SECTION
10.12   Execution in Counterparts. 

This Indenture may be executed in any
number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such
counterparts shall together constitute but one instrument. 

SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC. 

By:  
       /s/ Donald E.
      Kiernan   

Title: 
      Senior Vice President,     

Treasuer
      and Chief 

Financial
      Officer    

(SEAL) 

ATTEST: 

/s/Wayne
Wirtz 

      Title:  Assistant
Secretary 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK 

By:  
       /s/ Remo
Reale   

Title: 
      Assistant Vice President 

(SEAL) 

ATTEST: 

/s/Mary
LaGumina  

      Title:
Assistant Vice President 

</EX-4.H>

<EX-10.A>
 3
 ex10a.htm
 SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

ex10a.htm 

Exhibit
10-a 

SHORT
TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 

Plan
Effective:  January 1, 1984 

Revisions
Effective:  November 18, 2005 

SHORT
TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 

1. 

Purpose .  The
      purpose of the Short Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to provide
      Eligible Employees with incentive compensation based upon the achievement
      of financial, service, and operating performance levels and management
      effectiveness. 

2. 

Definitions .  For
      purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the
      meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates
      otherwise: 

Award
Year .  "Award Year" shall mean the calendar year for which
performance is used to determine one's award under the Plan. 

Chairman .  "Chairman"
shall mean the Chairman of the Board of AT T Inc. 

Committee .  "Committee"
shall mean the Human Resources Committee of the Board of AT T
Inc. 

Eligible
Employee .  "Eligible Employee" shall mean an Officer and any
other individual who is participating in the Plan as of September 1,
2005.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the CEO of AT T Inc. (CEO)
may, from time to time, exclude any Officer or group of Officers from being an
Eligible Employee under this Plan.  Further, an employee of a company
acquired by AT T shall not be considered an Eligible Employee unless
designated as eligible by the CEO. 

Officer .
"Officer" shall mean an individual who is designated as an officer of AT T
or of any AT T subsidiary for compensation purposes on AT T s
records. 

Retirement.
 "Retirement" shall mean the termination of an Eligible Employee's
employment with AT T or any of its subsidiaries, for reasons other than
death, on or after the earlier of the following dates:  (1) the date a
participant has attained age 55, and, for an individual who becomes a
participant on or after January 1, 2002, has five (5) years of service, or (2)
the date the Eligible Employee has attained one of the following combinations of
age and service at termination of employment on or after April 1, 1997, except
as otherwise indicated below: 

With
respect to an Eligible Employee who is granted an EMP Service Pension under and
pursuant to the provisions of the AT T Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained
Program ("AT TPBP") upon termination of Employment, the term "Retirement"
shall include such Eligible Employee's termination of employment. 

Termination Under
      EPR .  In determining whether an Eligible Employee s
      termination of employment under the Enhanced Pension and Retirement
      Program (EPR) is a Retirement for purposes of this Plan, five years shall
      be added to each of age and net credited service (NCS).  If with
      such additional age and years of service, (1) an Eligible Employee upon
      such termination of employment under EPR is Retirement Eligible according
      to the AT T Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP) or (2) the
      Eligible Employee upon such termination of employment under EPR has
      attained one of the following combinations of age and
    service, 

then such
termination of employment shall be a Retirement for all purposes under this Plan
and the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to the treatment under this Plan
afforded in the case of a termination of employment which is a
Retirement. 

AT T .  "AT T"
shall mean AT T Inc. 

3. 

Eligibility .
      Each Eligible Employee who during an Award Year was in active service may
      be eligible for an award under the Plan, as provided under Section 4
      below.  Employees are not rendered ineligible by reason of being a
      member of the Board. 

4. 

Awards . The
      Committee with respect to Officers, or the Chairman with respect to
      non-Officer Eligible Employees, shall approve a Target Award for each
      employee eligible for an award under the Plan for each Award Year that the
      Committee or the Chairman, as applicable, intends to make
      awards. 

The
Target Award applicable to an employee otherwise eligible for an award under the
Plan for an Award Year shall be prorated over the Award Year or the employee
shall be ineligible for an award, as follows: 

(1)  become
      eligible or ineligible for an award under Plan or change from one eligible
      position to another after the beginning of the Award
      Year 

prorate
      according to time of active service in each eligible
      position  to the nearest half month 

(2)  inter-company
      transfers 

prorate
      for each respective entities  performance according to time of active
      service at each entity to the nearest half month 

(3)  receipt
      of  Disability Benefits for more than three months in an Award
      Year 

prorate
      to the day based on service while not receiving Disability
      Benefits 

(4)  receipt
      of  Disability Benefits for three months or less in an Award
      Year 

no
      reduction is applicable Target Award 

(5)  Retirement 

prorate
      to date of Retirement 

(6)  leave
      of absence 

prorate
      to date leave commences and from date leave ceases unless otherwise
      provided by the Committee or the Chairman, as
    applicable 

(7)  death
      during an Award Year 

prorate
      to date of death 

(8)  dismissal
      for cause during or after an Award Year 

no
      award 

(9)  termination
      with severance payment 

prorate
      to date of termination 

(10)  resignation
      with no severance payment 

no
      award 

(11)  mandatory
      termination at age 65 

Prorate
      to date of
termination 

A
percentage of the Target Award for each Award Year to be distributed to the
award recipient will be determined by the Committee, or Chairman, for Officers
and non-Officer Eligible Employees, respectively, based upon achievement of
performance levels during such Award Year of criteria established by the
Committee, or the Chairman, respectively. 

The
criteria established by the Committee for Officers, or the Chairman with respect
to non-Officer Eligible Employees, upon which the percentages of the Target
Awards referred to above are determined shall give due regard, as the Committee,
or the Chairman, as applicable, deems appropriate, to one or more of the
following for the Award Year: 

(a) 

Financial
      performance of AT T, individual operating entities thereof and/or
      AT T and its consolidated
subsidiaries. 

(b) 

Service
      performance of AT T and of individual operating entities; or other
      appropriate operating performance criteria for entities where service
      performance is not relevant. 

(c) 

Other
      criteria in lieu of or in addition to the above as determined by the
      Committee or the Chairman, as
applicable. 

The
Committee then with respect to Officers, or the Chairman with respect to
non-Officer Eligible Employees, shall determine the payout of Awards in such
amounts and to such of the Eligible Employees as each may determine in its sole
discretion.  Awards shall be paid in cash in the calendar year the
awards are determined, except to the extent that an Eligible Employee has made
an election to defer the receipt of such award pursuant to the AT T Salary
and Incentive Award Deferral Plan or other AT T deferred compensation
plan. 

The award
to be distributed to an individual may be more or less in the Committee's or the
Chairman's discretion, as applicable, including no award, than the percentage of
the Target Award determined for such individual; for example, the Committee or
the Chairman, as applicable, may approve an award greater than the Target Award,
adjusted for performance, based on individual performance. 

5.          Adjustments.  

(a) 

In
      order to assure the incentive features of the Plan and to avoid distortion
      in the operation of the Plan, the Committee or the Chairman, as
      applicable, may make adjustments in the criteria established for any Award
      Year, whether before or after the end of the Award Year, to the extent the
      Committee or the Chairman, as applicable, deems appropriate, to compensate
      for or reflect any extraordinary changes which may have occurred during
      the Award Year which significantly alter the basis upon which performance
      levels were determined.  Such changes may include, without
      limitation, changes in accounting practices, tax laws, or other laws or
      regulations, or economic changes not in the ordinary course of business
      cycles. 

(b) 

In
      the event of any change in outstanding shares of AT T by reason of any
      stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation,
      combination or exchange of shares or other similar corporate change, the
      Committee or the Chairman, as applicable, shall make such adjustments, if
      any, that the Committee or the Chairman, as applicable, deems appropriate
      in the performance levels established for any Award
  Year. 

(c) 

The
      Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources (or his or her successor)
      may approve a new Target Award for any Eligible Employee whose position is
      modified by changes in job responsibilities, reorganization, or otherwise;
      provided, however, such authority may not be exercised for positions with
      a total compensation market rate exceeding $2.0 million (in such a case
      the new Target Award shall be approved by the
  Committee). 

6.            
 Other
Conditions . 

(a) 

No
      person shall have any claim to be granted an award under the Plan and
      there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Eligible Employees
      under the Plan.  Awards under the Plan may not be assigned or
      alienated. 

(b) 

Neither
      the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving to
      any employee the right to be retained in the employ of AT T or any
      subsidiary thereof. 

(c) 

AT T
      or subsidiary thereof, as applicable, shall have the right to deduct from
      any award to be paid under the Plan any federal, state or local taxes
      required by law to be withheld with respect to such
    payment. 

(d) 

Unless
      otherwise provided by the Committee, awards under the Plan shall be
      excluded in determining benefits under any pension, retirement, savings,
      disability, death, or other benefit plans of AT T except where
      required by law. 

7. 

Designation of
      Beneficiaries .  An Eligible Employee may designate
      pursuant to AT T's Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may
      hereafter be amended from time-to-time ("Rules"), which Rules shall apply
      hereunder and are incorporated herein by this reference, a beneficiary or
      beneficiaries to receive in case of the employee s death all or part of
      the awards which may be made to the employee under the Plan.  A
      designation of beneficiary may be replaced by a new designation or may be
      revoked by the employee at any time.  A designation or
      revocation shall be on a form to be provided for the purpose and shall
      become effective only when filed with AT T during the employee's
      lifetime with written acknowledgement of receipt from
      AT T.  In case of the employee s death, an award made under
      the Plan with respect to which a designation of beneficiary has been made
      (to the extent it is valid and enforceable under applicable law) shall be
      paid to the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries.  Any award
      made to an employee who is deceased and not subject to such a designation
      shall be distributed in accordance with the Rules.

8.            
 Plan
Administration . 

(a) 

The
      Committee or the Chairman, as applicable, shall have full power to
      administer and interpret the Plan and to establish rules for its
      administration.  Awards under the Plan shall be conclusively
      determined by the Committee or the Chairman, as applicable.  Any
      determinations or actions required or permitted to be made by the
      Committee or the Chairman, as applicable, may be delegated by the
      Committee or the Chairman in its sole discretion.  The Committee
      or the Chairman, as applicable, or any delegate thereof, in making any
      determinations under or referred to in the Plan shall be entitled to rely
      on opinions, reports or statements of officers or employees of AT T
      and/or of any subsidiary thereof and of counsel, public accountants and
      other professional or expert
persons. 

(b) 

The
      Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas and applicable
      Federal law. 

9.   

Modification or
      Termination of Plan .  This Plan may be modified or
      terminated at any time in accordance with the provisions of AT T's
      Schedule of Authorizations.  A modification may affect present
      and future Eligible
Employees. 

SHORT
TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 

ADMINISTRATIVE
GUIDELINES 

1. 

Purpose .  The
      purpose of these Guidelines is to outline the procedures to be followed in
      administering AT T's Short Term Incentive Plan (the
      "Plan"). 

2. 

Award
      Process .  The Committee shall approve a Target Award for
      each eligible Officer.  The Chairman shall approve a Target
      Award for each non-Officer Eligible Employee.  These Target
      Awards are based on market-based rates established for each Eligible
      Employee and shall generally be established in January of the Award
      Year. 

Annual
financial and/or other performance  objectives  for
Officers for an Award Year shall be approved by the Committee each year,
generally in January of the Award Year.  Objectives for non-Officer
Eligible Employees shall be approved by the Chairman.  Annual
financial and/or other performance  results  (upon which
the payment of Awards for Officers shall be based), maximum funding levels, and
payout recommendations requiring Committee approval, will be submitted to and
approved by the Committee after the Award Year is completed.  Results
for non-Officer Eligible Employees shall be approved by the
Chairman. 

An
individual s Target Award will be prorated over the Award Year, if applicable,
according to Section 4 of the Plan. 

Target
Awards will be adjusted for distribution based upon achievement during the Award
Year, of the financial and/or other performance criteria established by the
Committee or the Chairman, as applicable.  Discretionary awards may
also be granted as described in Section 5, to be paid out of funds from the
Discretionary Pools. 

3. 

Performance
      Criteria .  The performance criteria established by the
      Committee or the Chairman, as applicable, may be one or more of the
      following: 

Financial
      Performance Criteria 

Achievement
of Value Added objectives or other financial objectives (e.g., gross
contributions, revenues, net income, operating contribution, etc.) will be used
as financial performance criteria for all entities. 

Value
Added shall be a measure of earnings above a return required by investors (i.e.,
generally, net operating contribution less a capital charge). 

Value
Added or other financial measurement s performance is determined after
adjustment in accordance with the following: 

In order
to assure the incentive features of the Plan and to avoid distortion in the
operation of the Plan, the Committee or the Chairman, as applicable, shall make
adjustments in the criteria established for any Award Year, whether before or
after the end of the Award Year to compensate for or reflect any extraordinary
changes which may have occurred during the Award Year which alter the basis upon
which performance levels were determined.  Such changes include the
following:  accounting changes, extraordinary items, income from
discontinued operations, and the impact of material events that have been
publicly disclosed. 

Other
      Performance Criteria 

Other
performance criteria may include, but are not limited to, Value Drivers, i.e.,
quantifiable operational and other indicators, such as revenue growth, customer
or subscriber growth, operating margin, etc., that are tied to the strategy of
the operating entity and are key barometers of value
creation. 

4. 

Funding .  Each
      year, a maximum funding level of 1.0 percent of reported AT T net
      income (before any extraordinary loss and/or cumulative effect of changes
      in accounting principles) minus amounts paid as Key Executive Officer
      Short Term Award(s) pursuant to the 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan and/or
      the 2001 Incentive Plan shall be available to payment or awards under the
      Plan with respect to the preceding Award
Year. 

5. 

Distribution of
      Awards .  Awards for the preceding Award Year will
      generally be distributed after completion of the Award Year in accordance
      with the following paragraphs.  Distribution of all awards is
      subject to approval by the Committee or the Chairman, as applicable,
      generally obtained in January following the completion of an Award
      Year. 

Formula-Driven Awards 
- - 

The
Committee, or the Chairman, as applicable, shall establish financial and/or
other performance objectives for AT T and such other entities as deemed
appropriate by the Committee or the Chairman, as applicable. 

A
percentage of the Target Award for the preceding Award Year is paid to Officers
and to non-Officer Eligible Employees in each entity based on the achievement of
applicable financial and/or other performance results of their
entity. 

Discretionary Pools 
- - 

After
determination of formula-driven awards, the Committee for Officers and the
Chairman for non-Officer Eligible Employees may establish Discretionary Pools to
reward individuals and/or entities for exceptional
performance.  Maximum funding available for Discretionary Pools is the
maximum funding level described in Section 4 less the formula-driven amounts
distributed. 

The
Committee or the Chairman, as applicable, will determine funding for each pool
and provide guidelines for distribution of awards.  The following are
examples of factors that may be considered: 

Financial
      results above objective 

Outstanding
      customer service results 

Advancement
      of workforce diversity 

Outstanding
      individual contribution 

The
Chairman will recommend to the Committee the discretionary awards for officers
reporting directly to the Chairman. 

6. 

Changes/Exceptions .  Changes
      in these Guidelines and exceptions to their provisions may be authorized
      by the Committee. 

</EX-10.A>

<EX-10.B>
 4
 ex10b.htm
 SUPPLEMENTAL LIFE INSURANCE PLAN

ex10b.htm 

SUPPLEMENTAL LIFE INSURANCE
PLAN  

Effective:  January
1, 1986  

         Revisions Effective: January
1, 2008  

Revisions
Effective:  January 29, 2009  

SUPPLEMENTAL LIFE INSURANCE
PLAN  

1.     Purpose.  The
purpose of the Supplemental Life     Insurance
Plan  ("Plan") is to allow for provision of     additional survivor benefits
for Eligible Employees.  

2.     Definitions.  For
purposes of this Plan, the following     words and phrases shall have
the meanings indicated, unless     the context clearly indicates
otherwise:  

Annual Base Salary or Annual
Salary or Salary.  

"Annual Base Salary" or
"Annual Salary" or "Salary" shall mean an Eligible Employee's annual base salary
rate determined by AT T, excluding (1) all differentials regarded as
temporary or extra payments and (2) all payments and incentive awards and
distributions made either as a long term award or as a short term award; and
such Salary shall be as before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to any
deferred compensation plan or agreement provided by AT T, including but not
limited to compensation deferred in accordance with Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code.  Annual Salary or Salary shall mean an
annualized amount determined from an Eligible Employee's Annual Base Salary
rate.  

Beneficiary  .  "Beneficiary"
shall mean any beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Eligible Employee
pursuant to the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may
hereafter be amended from time-to-time ("Rules").  

BSLIP
Offset  .  "BSLIP Offset"
shall equal the sum of the amounts (1) and (2) described
below:  

an amount of level death
benefit that would be paid under the participant s BellSouth Supplemental Life
Insurance Plan ("  BSLIP  ") policy(ies) as if the
participant had restructured such policy(ies) based on the December 31, 2008
cash value to provide a level death benefit assuming no additional premium
payments to the policy(ies), as calculated by the BSLIP administrator during
2008 and communicated to each active officer;   

or,  

an amount of level death
benefit that would be paid under the participant s Cingular Wireless BLS
Executive Transition Supplemental Life Insurance Plan policy(ies) as if the
participant had restructured such policy(ies) based on the December 31, 2007
cash value to provide a level death benefit assuming no additional premium
payments to the policy(ies), as calculated by the BSLIP administrator during
2008 and communicated to each active officer;  

and  

an amount equal to the death
benefit provided under the participant s BellSouth Split Dollar Life Insurance
Plan policy(ies) as of December 31, 2008 and Cingular Wireless BLS Executive
Transition Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan policy(ies) as of December 31,
2007.  

This sum is applied as an
offset to this Plan as described in Section 4, regardless of whether or not the
participant actually restructured his policy or made other decisions regarding
such BellSouth and Cingular policy(ies).  

BSLIP
Retiree Offset.    "BSLIP Retiree
Offset" shall equal the sum of the amounts (1) and (2) described
below:  

an amount equal to the death
benefit provided under the participant s BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance
Plan policy(ies) as if the participant died on December 31,
2008;  

and  

(2)  an amount equal to the death
benefit that was provided under the participant s BellSouth Split Dollar Life
Insurance policy(ies) as if the participant died on his BSLIP retirement
date.  

This amount is applied as an
offset to this Plan as described in Section 4.  

Chairman  .  "Chairman" shall
mean the Chairman of the Board of AT T Inc.  

Committee  .  "Committee"
shall mean the Human Resources Committee of the Board of AT T
Inc.  

Eligible
Employee  .  "Eligible
Employee" shall mean an Officer and any other individual who is participating in
the Plan as of September 1, 2005.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
CEO may, from time to time, exclude any Officer or group of Officers from being
an   "  Eligible Employee  "   under this
Plan.  Further, an employee of a company acquired by AT T shall
not be considered an Eligible Employee unless designated as eligible by the
CEO.  

ELIP
Offset.    "ELIP Offset"
shall equal an amount of level death benefit that would be paid under the
participant s AT T Supplemental Life Insurance Program ( ELIP ) policy as if
the participant had restructured his ELIP policy based on the December 31, 2007
cash value to provide a level death benefit assuming no additional premium
payments to the policy, as calculated by the ELIP administrator during 2007 and
communicated to each active officer participating in ELIP.  This
amount is applied as an offset to this Plan as described in Section 4,
regardless of whether or not the participant actually restructured his policy or
made other decisions regarding such ELIP
policy.    

Insurance
Contract  .  "Insurance
Contract" shall mean a contract(s) of life insurance insuring the life of the
Eligible Employee entered into by AT T.  

Officer  .  "Officer" shall
mean an individual who is designated as an officer of AT T or of any
AT T subsidiary for compensation purposes on AT T s
records.  

Retirement  . "Retirement" shall mean the
termination of an Eligible Employee's employment with AT T or any of its
subsidiaries, for reasons other than death, on or after the earlier of the
following dates:  (1) the date a participant has attained age 55, and,
for an individual who becomes a participant on or after January 1, 2002, has
five (5) years of service, or (2) the date the Eligible Employee has attained
one of the following combinations of age and service at termination of
employment on or after April 1, 1997, except as otherwise indicated below:

With respect to an Eligible
Employee who is granted an EMP Service Pension under and pursuant to the
provisions of the AT T Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained Program
("ATTPBP") upon termination of Employment, the term "Retirement" shall include
such Eligible Employee's termination of employment.  

Termination
Under EPR  .  In determining
whether an Eligible Employee s termination of employment under the Enhanced
Pension and Retirement Program ( EPR ) is a Retirement for purposes of this
Plan, five years shall be added to   each of
age and net credited service ( NCS ).  If with such additional age and
years of service, (1) an Eligible Employee upon such termination of employment
under EPR is  
Retirement Eligible according to the AT T Supplemental Retirement Income
Plan ( SRIP ) or (2) the Eligible Employee upon such termination of employment
under EPR has attained one of the following combinations of age and
service,  

then such termination of
employment shall be a Retirement for all purposes under this Plan and the
Eligible Employee shall be entitled to the treatment under this Plan afforded in
the case of a termination of employment which is a
Retirement.  

AT T  .  "AT T" shall
mean AT T Inc.  

3.     Eligibility. Each Eligible
Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan  

4.     Pre-Retirement Benefits and
Post-Retirement Benefits.  

Basic Death
Benefit  

While this plan is in effect,
the Beneficiary who is designated by the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to
receive as a Basic Death Benefit from the proceeds of the Insurance Contract an
amount equal to the result of multiplying the Eligible Employee's Annual Salary
rounded to the next higher $1,000 by the following
amounts:  

Chief Executive
      Officer  

2  

Other Eligible
      Employees  
                   1  

This amount shall be reduced
(but not below zero) by any amount payable under any group term life insurance
covering the Eligible Employee which is maintained by AT T, which amount of
group term life insurance will be limited to a maximum of
$50,000.  

In addition, the Basic Death
Benefit will be reduced (but not below zero) by the ELIP Offset amount, BSLIP
Offset amount or BSLIP Retiree Offset amount.  

Furthermore, any officer who
becomes eligible to participate in this Plan on or after the date that an ELIP
Offset, BSLIP Offset or BSLIP Retiree Offset has been determined by the ELIP or
BSLIP plan administrator, as applicable, will have his Basic Death Benefit
reduced accordingly by such offset amount.  

The amount of Basic Death
Benefit payable hereunder will automatically increase if pay
increases.  

At Retirement, the
pre-retirement benefit converts to a post-retirement benefit.  This
benefit is equal to one times Salary rounded to the next higher $1,000 (at the
time of retirement) and shall be reduced (but not below zero) by any amount
payable under any group term life insurance covering the Eligible Employee which
is maintained by AT T, which amount of group term life insurance will be
limited to a maximum of $50,000; provided, however, for an executive who first
becomes a Plan participant on or after January 1, 1998, this post-retirement
death benefit shall be reduced by 10% of its original post-retirement amount
each year for five years beginning at the later of the date the Eligible
Employee attains age 65 or Retirement.  

Optional Supplementary
Benefit  

Subject to the limitations in
the remaining paragraphs in this section describing optional supplementary
benefits, each Eligible Employee may also purchase optional supplementary
pre-retirement life insurance coverage from AT T in an amount equal to one
times the Eligible Employee s Annual Salary rounded to the next higher $1,000,
and an additional amount of such insurance in an amount equal to another one
times such amount (for a total of two times the Annual Salary rounded to the
next higher $1,000), which insurance shall be payable from the proceeds of the
Insurance Contract.  Each such amount of insurance ("one times
salary") continued until such employee reaches age 65, by continuing to
contribute for it, shall entitle the beneficiary under the Insurance Contract to
receive an amount from the proceeds of such Insurance Contract equal to one
times the Eligible Employee s final Annual Salary rounded to the next higher
$1,000, when such Eligible Employee dies after
Retirement.  

No ELIP Offset, BSLIP Offset,
nor BSLIP Retiree Offset will reduce the amount of Optional Supplementary
Benefit for any participant.  

To elect this optional
supplementary coverage, the Eligible Employee must complete an enrollment form
on which he or she specifies the amount of coverage he or she wishes to purchase
and authorizes his or her employing company to deduct his or her contributions
for coverage from his or her salary.  

An Eligible Employee may not
elect this coverage while receiving disability benefits under any Company
disability benefit plan.  

An Eligible Employee must
make his or her election to purchase optional supplementary coverage within
three calendar months of being declared eligible to participate in the Plan;
except any Eligible Employee who was declared an Eligible Employee before
October 1, 1997, shall have until December 31, 1997 to enroll for such optional
supplementary coverage or to increase such coverage.  

The optional supplementary
life insurance is effective upon AT T's binding of life insurance coverage
for the Eligible Employee pursuant to an Insurance
Contract.  

Effective January 1, 1998,
once an Eligible Employee enrolls for optional supplementary coverage, he or she
can later decrease or terminate such coverage but never increase or reinstate
such coverage.  

Regardless of the amount of
coverage elected, the amount in force will automatically increase if Salary
increases.  The cost for this coverage will increase
accordingly.  

This optional supplementary
life insurance is paid for on a contributory basis by those Eligible Employees
who enroll in the coverage.  The cost of coverage, and therefore, how
much an Eligible Employee contributes, depends on age and the amount of coverage
and shall be as determined by AT T.  There will be no periodic
waiver of premium payments.  

In the event of death, the
Eligible Employee s optional supplementary life insurance benefit will be paid
to the Eligible Employee s Beneficiary or Beneficiaries in a lump sum, unless
the Salary Continuation Death Benefit form of payment was elected on the
Eligible Employee s enrollment form.  The option to elect other than a
lump sum payment is limited to an Eligible Employee who became an Eligible
Employee on or before January 1, 1998.  If the Eligible Employee has
no surviving beneficiaries, the benefit will be paid in a lump sum in accordance
with the Rules.  

The optional supplementary
life insurance coverage hereunder will automatically continue while an Eligible
Employee is receiving disability benefits under any AT T disability benefit
plan, provided the Eligible Employee continues his or her
contributions.  

If an Eligible Employee
terminates employment with AT T or any of its subsidiaries for any reason
other than Retirement, this coverage will stop at the end of the month of
termination; provided, however, Eligible Employees who are 65 at the time of
their termination will continue to have non-contributory unreduced coverage
after age 65.  

Alternate Death
Benefit  

Alternate death benefit
coverage shall only be available to an Eligible Employee who became an Eligible
Employee before January 1, 1998.  Such Eligible Employees shall be
entitled to elect to receive alternate death benefit life insurance coverage;
provided such election is made before January 1, 1998.  

Under such coverage, an
Eligible Employee s Beneficiary or Beneficiaries will be entitled to receive
from the proceeds of the Insurance Contract a payment equal to the Eligible
Employee s final Annual Salary upon his or her death.  This benefit
will not be rounded to the next higher $1,000.  The amount of
insurance in force will automatically increase if salary
increases.  Coverage applies to death from any cause, except with
respect to an on-the-job accident for which an Eligible Employee is protected
while an active employee by any Accident Death Benefit feature of the
ATTPBP.  

By enrolling in this
coverage, an Eligible Employee automatically waives his or her eligibility for
any Sickness Death Benefit and Pensioner Death Benefits otherwise payable under
the ATTPBP.  

The coverage provided by the
alternate death benefit life insurance coverage will continue after
Retirement.  

To elect this coverage, an
Eligible Employee must complete an irrevocable enrollment and waiver
form.  

AT T pays the full cost
of the alternate death benefit life insurance
coverage.  

The insurance benefit
provided under this alternate death benefit life insurance will be paid in a
lump sum, unless otherwise elected on the Eligible Employee's enrollment
form.  

Alternate death benefit
coverage ceases upon an Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment other than
a Retirement.  This alternate death benefit life insurance may not be
converted to an individual policy.  

Salary Continuation Death
Benefit.  

The salary continuation death
benefit shall only be available under the conditions specified hereunder, to an
Eligible Employee who became an Eligible Employee before January 1,
1998.  

By a written election filed
with AT T before January 1, 1998, an Eligible Employee may terminate his or
her rights to a Basic Death Benefit and/or to Optional Supplementary Coverage
(if any) and/or to an Alternate Death Benefit (if
any).  

If such an election is filed,
and the Eligible Employee dies on or after the first day of the calendar year
following the year in which such election is filed and prior to the termination
of coverage pursuant to Section 7, the Eligible Employee's Beneficiary or
Beneficiaries theretofore named shall be paid by AT T an amount per annum
for ten (10) years which amounts, in the aggregate, have a net present value,
using an eleven percent (11%) discount rate, equal to one hundred eight-five
percent (185%) of the (i)Basic Death Benefit amount and/or (ii) the amount
elected as Optional Supplementary coverage(if any) and/or  (iii) the
amount elected as an Alternate Death Benefit (if any)  which would be
payable to his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries as of the date of the
Eligible Employee's  death, and no other benefit shall be payable
hereunder as either a Basic Death Benefit, Optional Supplementary Coverage or
Alternate Death Benefit . Such payment(s) shall commence no later than sixty
(60) days following the date of the Eligible Employee's
death.  

On or after January 1, 1998,
an Eligible Employee who has elected death benefits in the form of salary
continuation pursuant to this Section may cancel such election and have his or
her Beneficiaries receive death benefits as insurance in a lump-sum but, an
Eligible Employee who cancels his or her salary continuation election may not
thereafter re-elect such option.  

Survivor Annuity
Equivalent  

Additionally, each Eligible
Employee who is not eligible for the Immediate Automatic Pre-retirement Survivor
Annuity of the ATTPBP (or equivalent thereof) shall be eligible hereunder for a
Survivor Annuity Equivalent benefit of one times salary payable to the surviving
spouse of such Eligible Employee.  Such benefit shall be paid as
follows: an amount per annum for ten (10) years shall be paid to the Eligible
Employee's surviving spouse which amounts, in the aggregate, shall have a net
present value, using an eleven percent (11%) discount rate, equal to one hundred
eighty-five percent (185%) of one times the Eligible Employee's salary at the
time of his or her death; provided, however, no such Survivor Annuity Equivalent
payments will be made on or after the date of death of the surviving
spouse.  Such payments shall commence no later than sixty (60) days
following the date of the Eligible Employee's death.  

For the purposes of the
Survivor Annuity Equivalent, the Eligible Employee's surviving spouse means a
spouse legally married to the Eligible Employee at the time of the Eligible
Employee's death.  

Eligibility for the Survivor
Annuity Equivalent shall automatically cease on the date of termination of the
Eligible Employee's employment.  If the Eligible Employee becomes
totally disabled prior to Retirement, the Eligible Employee shall continue to be
eligible for the Survivor Annuity Equivalent until the expiration of disability
benefits.  If the Eligible Employee is granted a leave of absence,
other than for military service of more than four weeks, the Eligible Employee
shall continue to be eligible for the Survivor Annuity Equivalent during such
leave of absence.  

The Eligible Employee shall
cease to be eligible for the Survivor Annuity Equivalent at the conclusion of
the day immediately preceding the date the Eligible Employee becomes eligible
for the Immediate Automatic Pre-retirement Survivor Annuity of the
ATTPBP.  

5.     Incidents of
Ownership.  AT T will be the owner and hold all the incidents of
ownership in the Insurance Contract, including the right to dividends, if
paid.  The Eligible Employee may specify in writing to AT T, the
Beneficiary or Beneficiaries and the mode of payment for any death proceeds not
in excess of the amounts payable under this Plan.  Upon receipt of a
written request from the Eligible Employee, AT T will immediately take such
action as shall be necessary to implement such Beneficiary appointment. Any
balance of proceeds from the Insurance Contract not paid as either a Basic Death
Benefit or otherwise pursuant to the Plan shall be paid to
AT T.  

6.     Premiums.  All
premiums due on the Insurance Contract shall be paid by
AT T.  However, the Eligible Employee agrees to reimburse AT T
by January 31 following the date of each premium payment in an amount such that,
for Federal Income Tax purposes the reimbursement for each year is equal to the
amount which would be required to be included in the Eligible Employee's income
for Federal Income Tax purposes by reasons of the "economic benefit" of the
Insurance Contract provided by AT  provided, however, that AT T, in
its sole discretion, may decline to accept any such reimbursement and require
the inclusion of such "economic benefit" in the Eligible
Employee's  income.  In its discretion AT T may deduct
the Eligible Employee's portion of the premiums from the Eligible Employee's
pay. For purposes of this Plan, the value of the  economic benefit  shall be
determined based on the insurers published premium rates available to all
standard risks for initial issue one-year term insurance in compliance with
Revenue Rulings 66-110 and 67-154 issued by the Internal Revenue
Service.  

7.     Termination of
Coverage.  An Eligible Employee's coverage under this Plan shall
terminate immediately when the Eligible Employee realizes an "Event of
Termination" which shall mean any of the following:  

(a)     Termination of an Eligible
Employee's employment with his or her employing company for any reason other
than (i) death, (ii) Disability as such term is defined in the SRIP, or (iii)
Retirement.  

(b)     In the case of an Eligible
Employee who terminates employment by reason of a disability but who does not
realize an Event of Termination because of Section 7a(ii) above, a termination
of the Eligible Employee's total Disability that is not accompanied by either a
return to employment with his or her employing company or the Eligible
Employee's death or Retirement.  

(c)     Except in the case of an
Eligible Employee who has theretofore terminated employment for a reason
described in Section 7a(ii) or (iii) above, AT T elects to terminate the
Eligible Employee's coverage under the Plan by a written notice to that effect
given to the Eligible Employee.  AT T shall have no right to amend
the Plan or terminate the Eligible Employee's coverage under the Plan with
respect to an Eligible Employee who has theretofore terminated employment for a
reason described in Section 7a(ii) or (iii) above without the written consent of
the Eligible Employee.  

8.     Non-Competition.  Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan, no coverage shall be provided under this Plan
with respect to any Eligible Employee who shall, without the written consent of
AT T, and while employed by AT T or any subsidiary thereof, or within
three (3) years after termination of employment from AT T or any subsidiary
thereof, engage in competition with AT T or any subsidiary thereof or with
any business with which a subsidiary of AT T or an affiliated company has a
substantial interest (collectively referred to herein as "Employer
business").  For purposes of this Plan, engaging in competition with
any Employer business shall mean engaging by Eligible Employee in any business
or activity in the same geographical market where the same or substantially
similar business or activity is being carried on as an Employer
business.  Such term shall not include owning a nonsubstantial
publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that competes with an
Employer business.  However, engaging in competition with an Employer
business shall include representing or providing consulting services to, or
being an employee of, any person or entity that is engaged in competition with
any Employer business or that takes a position adverse to any Employer
business.  Accordingly, coverage shall not be provided under this Plan
if, within the time period and without the written consent specified, Eligible
Employee either engages directly in competitive activity or in any capacity in
any location becomes employed by, associated with, or renders service to any
company, or parent or affiliate thereof, or any subsidiary of any of them, if
any of them is engaged in competition with an Employer business, regardless of
the position or duties the Eligible Employee takes and regardless of whether or
not the employing company, or the company that Eligible Employee becomes
associated with or renders service to, is itself engaged in direct competition
with an Employer business.  

9.     Restriction on
Assignment.  The Eligible Employee may assign all or any part of his
or her right, title, claim, interest, benefits and all other incidents of
ownership which he or she may have in the Insurance Contract to any other
individual or trustee, provided that any such assignment shall be subject to the
terms of this Plan; except neither the Eligible Employee nor any other person
shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate,
mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of
actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable  as a Salary Continuation
Death Benefit hereunder , which are, and all rights to which are, expressly
declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the
amounts payable as a Salary Continuation Death Benefit hereunder shall, prior to
actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any
debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by the Eligible Employee
or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of the
Eligible Employee's or any other person s bankruptcy or
insolvency.  Except as provided in this Section 8, no assignment or
alienation of any benefits under the Plan will be permitted or
recognized.  

10.     Unsecured General
Creditor.  Except to the extent of rights with respect to the
Insurance Contract in the absence of an election to receive benefits in Salary
Continuation Death Benefit form, the Eligible Employee and his or her
Beneficiaries, heirs, successors and assigns shall have no legal or equitable
rights, interest or claims in any property or assets of AT T, nor shall they
be beneficiaries, or have any rights, claims or interests in, any life insurance
policies, annuity contracts or the proceeds therefrom owned or which may be
acquired by AT T ("Policies"); such Policies or other assets of AT T
shall not be held under any trust for the benefit of the Eligible Employee , his
or her designated beneficiaries, heirs, successors or assigns, or held in any
way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations of AT T
under this Agreement; any and all of AT T s assets and Policies shall be,
and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of AT  AT T
shall have no obligation to acquire any Policies or any other assets; and
AT T s obligations under this Agreement shall be merely that of an unfunded
and unsecured promise of AT T to pay money in the
future.  

11.     Employment Not
Guaranteed.  Nothing contained in this Plan nor any action taken
hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or as giving the
Eligible Employee any right to be retained in the employ of any AT T
company.  

12.     Protective
Provisions.  The Eligible Employee will cooperate with AT T by
furnishing any and all information requested by AT T, in order to facilitate
the payment of benefits hereunder, taking such physical examinations as AT T
may deem necessary and taking such other relevant action as may be requested by
AT T, in order to facilitate the payment of benefits
hereunder.  If the Eligible Employee refuses so to cooperate, the
Eligible Employee's participation in the Plan shall terminate and AT T shall
have no further obligation to the Eligible Employee or his or her designated
Beneficiary hereunder.  If the Eligible Employee commits suicide
during the two-year period beginning on the date of eligibility under the Plan,
or if the Eligible Employee makes any material misstatement of information or
nondisclosure of medical history, then no benefits will be payable by reason of
this Plan to the Eligible Employee or his or her designated Beneficiary, or in
AT T s sole discretion, benefits may be payable in a reduced
amount.  

13.     Change in
Status.  In the event of a change in the employment status of an
Eligible Employee to a status in which he or she is no longer an Eligible
Employee under the Plan, such Eligible Employee shall immediately cease to be
eligible for any benefits under this Plan; provided, however, such survivor
benefits as would be available to such employee by reason of his or her new
status but which do not automatically become effective upon attainment of such
new status shall continue to be provided under this Plan until such benefits
become effective or until such employee has had reasonable opportunity to
effectuate such benefits but has failed to take any requisite action necessary
for such benefits to become effective.  

14.     Named
Fiduciary.  If this Plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), AT T is the "named fiduciary" of the
Plan.  

15.     Applicable
Law.  This Plan and the rights and obligations hereunder shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas to
the extent such law is not preempted by ERISA.  

16.     Administration of the
Plan.  The Committee shall be the sole administrator of the Plan and
will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and apply its provisions in
accordance with its terms.  The Committee shall further establish,
adopt or revise such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or advisable
for the administration of the Plan.  All decisions of the Committee
shall be binding.  

17.     Relation to Prior
Plans.  This Plan supersedes and replaces prior Senior Management
Survivor Benefit, Senior Management Supplementary Life Insurance, and Senior
Management Alternate Death Benefit Life Insurance Plans as in effect prior to
January 1, 1986, except such plans shall continue to apply to Eligible Employees
who retired before January 1, 1986; provided, however, that with respect to
those Eligible Employees who retired during calendar year 1986 by reason of the
fact of attaining age 65, the Post-Retirement Benefit provided pursuant to
the  Senior Management Survivor Benefit Plan as in effect prior to
January 1, 1986, shall continue to apply and the post-retirement benefit
provided under the Basic Death Benefit portion hereof shall not
apply.  

Effective January 1, 2008,
this Plan supersedes and replaces the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition
Life Insurance Plan (the  Cingular Plan ), and all policies issued under the
Cingular Plan shall be transferred to and governed by the
Plan.  

18.     Amendments and
Termination.  This Plan may be modified or terminated at any time in
accordance with the provisions of AT T's Schedule of Authorizations. A
modification or Plan termination may affect present and future Eligible
Employees; provided, however, that no modification shall be made to this Plan
with respect to an Eligible Employee who terminates employment for reason of
disability or Retirement), nor shall a termination of the Plan operate so as to
be applicable to such an individual, without the written consent of the Eligible
Employee.  

</EX-10.B>

<EX-10.C>
 6
 ex10c.htm
 SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN

ex10c.htm 

Exhibit
10-c 

SUPPLEMENTAL
RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN 

Effective:  January
1, 1984 

Revisions
Effective:  December 31, 2008 

SUPPLEMENTAL
RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN 

The
purpose of the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ("Plan") is to provide
Eligible Employees with retirement benefits to supplement benefits payable
pursuant to AT T's qualified group pension plans. 

Except as
provided in this paragraph, no benefits shall accrue under this Plan after
December 31, 2004.  The Plan shall be applied and interpreted
consistent with Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A(e)(1) so
that no benefit hereunder is an amount deferred after December 31, 2004 and the
Plan is not subject to the provisions of Code Section 409A; provided, however, a
Participant s Age shall be determined as of December 31, 2008, or, if earlier,
the Participant s Termination of Employment.  The Administrative
Committee shall have discretionary authority to interpret this Plan consistent
with this Section 1, and the Committee s determination shall be final and
conclusive. 

A
Participant s accrued benefit hereunder as of December 31, 2004 shall equal the
present value as of December 31, 2004 of the amount to which a Participant would
be entitled under this Plan assuming the Participant voluntarily terminated
employment without cause on December 31, 2004 and received a full payment of his
or her SRIP benefits on the earliest possible date allowed hereunder following
such deemed Termination of Employment, but only to the extent such SRIP benefits
are earned and vested as of December 31, 2004.  For purposes of such
calculation, a Participant s Years of Service and Final Average Earnings shall
be determined as of December 31, 2004, and a Participant s Age shall be
determined as of December 31, 2008, or, if earlier, the Participant s
Termination of Employment. 

2   

Definitions. 

For
purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

Administrative
Committee . "Administrative Committee" means a Committee consisting of the
Senior Executive Vice   President-Human
Resources and two or more other members designated by the Senior Executive Vice
President-Human Resources who shall administer the Plan. 

Agreement .  "Agreement"
means the written agreement (substantially in the form attached to this Plan as
Attachment A) that shall be entered into between AT T by the Senior
Executive Vice President-Human Resources and a Participant to carry out the Plan
with respect to such Participant.  Entry into a new Agreement shall
not be required upon amendment of the Plan or upon an increase in a
Participant's Retirement Percent (which increase shall nevertheless be utilized
to determine the Participant's benefits hereunder even though not reflected in
the Participant's Agreement), except entry into a new Agreement shall be
required in the case of an amendment which alters, to the detriment of a
Participant, the benefits described in this Plan as applicable to such
Participant (See Section 6.5).  Such new Agreement shall operate as
the written consent required by Section 6.5 of the Participant to such
amendment. 

Beneficiary .  "Beneficiary"
shall mean any beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Eligible Employee
pursuant to the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may
hereafter be amended from time-to-time ("Rules"). 

Chairman .  "Chairman"
shall mean the Chairman of the Board of AT T Inc.  

Disability .  "Disability"
means any Termination of Employment prior to being Retirement Eligible (without
regard to the 5 Years of Service requirement otherwise applicable to certain
Participants age 55 or older) that the Administrative Committee, in its complete
and sole discretion, determines is by reason of a Participant's total and
permanent disability.  The Administrative Committee may require that
the Participant submit to an examination by a competent physician or medical
clinic selected by the Administrative Committee.  On the basis of such
medical evidence, the determination of the Administrative Committee as to
whether or not a condition of total and permanent disability exists shall be
conclusive.  

Earnings .  "Earnings"
means for a given calendar year the Participant's: (1) bonus earned as a short
term award during the calendar year but not exceeding 200% of the target amount
of such bonus (or such other portion of the bonus or target bonus as may be
determined by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of AT T), plus (2)
base salary before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to any deferred
compensation plan or agreement provided by AT T, including but not limited
to compensation deferred in accordance with Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
 Earnings  shall not include any amounts earned or paid on or after January 1,
2005. 

Eligible
Employee . "Eligible Employee" means an Officer or a non-Officer employee
of any AT T company who is designated by the Chairman as eligible to
participate in the Plan.  Effective on and after July 1, 1994, only an
Officer may become an Eligible Employee.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Chairman, may, at any time and from time to time, exclude any
Employee or group of Employees from being deemed an  Eligible Employee  under
this plan. 

Final
Average Earnings .  "Final Average Earnings" means the average
of the Participant's Monthly Earnings for the thirty-six (36) consecutive months
out of the one hundred twenty (120) months next preceding January 1, 2005 which
yields the highest average earnings.  If the Participant has fewer
than thirty-six (36) months of employment prior to January 1, 2005, the average
shall be taken over his or her period of employment prior to January 1, 2005.

GAAP
Rate .  "GAAP Rate" means the interest rate used for valuing
Plan liabilities on the immediately preceding December 31 and periodic pension
expense for the calendar year for purposes of AT T's financial statement
reporting requirements for the referenced period. 

Immediate
Annuity Value . "Immediate Annuity Value" means the annual amount of
annuity payments that would be paid out of a plan on a single life annuity basis
if payment of the plan's benefit was commenced immediately upon Termination of
Employment, notwithstanding the form of payment of the plan's benefit actually
made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and
notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such benefit.

Mid-Career
Hire  .    Mid-Career Hire 
means an individual (i) initially hired or rehired at age 35 or older into a
position eligible for benefits under this Plan or (ii) initially hired or
rehired at age 35 or older who is subsequently promoted to a position eligible
for benefits under this Plan.  

Monthly
Earnings .  "Monthly Earnings" means one-twelfth (1/12) of
Earnings.  

Mortality
Tables .  "Mortality Tables" means the mortality tables as
defined by Code Section 417(e) for valuing minimum lump sum benefits payable
from qualified pension plans for the referenced period. 

Officer .
"Officer" shall mean an individual who is designated as an officer level
Employee for compensation purposes on the records of
AT T. 

Participant .  A
"Participant" means an Eligible Employee who has entered into an Agreement to
Participate in the Plan.  

Retire or
Retirement .  "Retire" or "Retirement" shall mean the
Termination of Employment of an Eligible Employee for reasons other than death,
on or after the earlier of the following dates:  (1) the date the
Eligible Employee is Retirement Eligible or (2) the date the Eligible Employee
has attained one of the following combinations of age and service at Termination
of Employment on or after April 1, 1997, except as otherwise indicated below:

With
respect to an Eligible Employee who is granted an EMP Service Pension under and
pursuant to the provisions of the AT T Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained
Program ("ATTPBP") upon Termination of Employment, the term "Retirement" shall
include such Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment. 

Retirement
Eligible .  "Retirement Eligible" or "Retirement Eligibility"
means that a Participant has attained age 55 and, for an individual who becomes
a Participant on or after January 1, 2002, has five (5) Years of Service.
Note:  Any reference in any other AT T plan to a person being
eligible to retire with an immediate pension pursuant to the AT T
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan shall be interpreted as having the same
meaning as the term Retirement Eligible.  

Retirement
Percent .  "Retirement Percent" means the percent specified in
the Agreement with the Participant which establishes a Target Retirement Benefit
(see Section 3.1) as a percentage of Final Average Earnings.  

AT T .  "AT T"
means AT T Inc.  

Service
Factor .  "Service Factor" means, unless otherwise agreed in
writing by the Participant and AT T, either (a) a deduction of 1.43 percent,
or .715 percent for Mid-Career Hires, multiplied by the number by which (i)
thirty-five (or thirty in the case of an Officer) exceeds (ii) the number of
Years of Service of the Participant determined as of December 31, 2004, or (b) a
credit of 0.715 percent multiplied by the number by which (i) the number of
Years of Service of the Participant determined as of December 31, 2004 exceeds
(ii) thirty-five (or thirty in the case of an Officer).  For purposes
of the above computation, a deduction shall result in the Service Factor being
subtracted from the Retirement Percent whereas a credit shall result in the
Service Factor being added to the Retirement Percent.  

Termination
of Employment .  "Termination of Employment" means the ceasing
of the Participant's employment from the AT T controlled group of companies
for any reason whatsoever, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.  

Year  .   A "Year" is a
period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.  

Years of
Service .  "Years of Service" means the number of each complete
years of continuous, full-time service as an employee beginning on the date when
a Participant first began such continuous employment with any AT T company
and on each anniversary of such date, including service prior to the adoption of
this Plan.  

3   

Plan
      ("SRIP") Benefits.  

3.1   

Termination
      of Employment/Vesting. 

With
respect to (1) a person who becomes a Participant prior to January 1, 1998, or
(2) a person who prior to January 1, 1998 is an officer of a Pacific Telesis
Group ("PTG") company and becomes a Participant after January 1, 1998, upon such
a Participant's Termination of Employment, AT T shall pay to such
Participant a SRIP Benefit in accordance with Section 3.3.  The amount
of such SRIP Benefit is calculated as follows:  

Final Average Earnings 

         x  Revised Retirement
Percentage  

        = Target
Retirement Benefit 

- 

Immediate
      Annuity Value of any AT T/PTG Qualified Pensions as of December 31,
      2004 

- 

Immediate
      Annuity Value of any other AT T/PTG Non-Qualified  Pensions as of
      December 31, 2004  

= Target
Benefit 

         -  Age
Discount  

= 

Annual
      Value of Life with 10 Year Certain SRIP Benefit immediately payable upon
      Termination of Employment 

With
respect to a person who is appointed an Officer and becomes a Participant on or
after January 1, 1998, upon such a Participant's Termination of Employment,
AT T shall pay to such Participant a SRIP Benefit in accordance with Section
3.3.  The amount of such SRIP Benefit is calculated as follows:

Final
Average Earnings 

x 
Revised Retirement Percentage 

= Target
Retirement Benefit 

-    Age
Discount  

=
Discounted Target Benefit 

-

Immediate
      Annuity Value of any AT T/PTG Qualified Pensions as of December 31,
      2004 

- 

Immediate
      Annuity Value of any AT T/PTG Non-Qualified Pensions,  as of December 31,
      2004  

=  

Annual
      Value of Life with 10 Year Certain SRIP Benefit immediately payable upon
      Termination of Employment 

Where in
both of the above cases the following apply: 

(a) 

Revised
      Retirement Percentage = Retirement Percent + Service
    Factor. 

(b) 

For
      purposes of determining the Service Factor, the Participant's actual Years
      of Service as of the earlier of the date of Termination of Employment or
      December 31, 2004, to the day, shall be
used. 

(c) 

For
      purposes of determining the Final Average Earnings, the Participant's
      Earnings history prior to January 1, 2005 shall be
  used. 

(d) 

Age
      Discount means the Participant's SRIP Benefit shall be decreased by
      five-tenths of one percent (.5%) for each month that December 31, 2008,
      or, if earlier, the Participant s Termination of Employment, precedes the
      date on which the Participant will attain age
  60. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if, at the earlier of the time of Termination of Employment or
December 31, 2004, the Participant is, or has been within the one year period
immediately preceding Participant's Termination of Employment, an Officer with
30 or more Years of Service such Participant's Age Discount shall be
zero. 

Except to
true up for an actual short term award paid following Termination of Employment
and prior to December 31, 2004, there shall be no recalculation of the value of
a Participant's SRIP Benefit following a Participant's Termination of
Employment. 

If a
Participant who has commenced payment of his or her SRIP Benefit dies, his or
her Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive the remaining SRIP Benefit in
accordance with the Benefit Payout Alternative elected or deemed elected by the
Participant or to make the same elections that the Participant could have made
as of the day immediately preceding the Participant s death.  If the
Participant had elected a lump sum benefit, such Beneficiary may make an
election under Section 3.6.  If a Participant dies while in active
service, Section 4 shall apply.  

Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan, upon any Termination of Employment of the
Participant for a reason other than death or Disability, AT T shall have no
obligation to the Participant under this Plan if the Participant has less than 5
Years of Service at the time of Termination of Employment. 

Upon a
Participant's Disability and application for benefits under the Social Security
Act as now in effect or as hereinafter amended, the Participant will continue to
accrue Years of Service during his or her Disability until the earliest of his
or her: 

(a) 

Recovery
      from Disability, 

(b) 

Retirement
      (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service requirement otherwise
      applicable to certain Participants age 55 or older),
  or 

(c) 

Death. 

Upon the
occurrence of either (a) Participant's recovery from Disability prior to his or
her Retirement Eligibility if Participant does not return to employment, or (b)
Participant's Retirement (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service
requirement otherwise applicable to certain Participants age 55 or older), the
Participant shall be entitled to receive a SRIP Benefit in accordance with
Section 3.1. 

For
purposes of calculating the foregoing benefit, the Participant's Final Average
Earnings shall be determined using his or her Earnings history as of the date of
his or her Disability. 

If a
Participant who continues to have a Disability dies prior to his or her
Retirement Eligibility (without regard to the 5 Years of Service requirement
otherwise applicable to certain Participants age 55 or older), the Participant
will be treated in the same manner as if he or she had died while in employment
(See Section 4.1).  

3.3   

Benefit
      Payout Alternatives. 

The
normal form of a Participant's benefits hereunder shall be a Life with 10-Year
Certain Benefit as described in Section 3.3(a).  However, a
Participant may elect in his or her Agreement or in a subsequently filed
election to convert his or her benefits hereunder, into one of the Benefit
Payout Alternatives described in Section 3.3(b), 3.3(c) or 3.3(d).  

(a) 

Life with a 10-Year
      Certain Benefit .  An annuity payable during the longer of
      (i) the life of the Participant or (ii) the 10-year period commencing on
      the date of the first payment and ending on the day next preceding the
      tenth anniversary of such date (the "Life With 10-Year Certain
      Benefit").  If a Participant who is receiving a Life with
      10-Year Certain Benefit dies prior to the expiration of the 10-year period
      described in this Section 3.3(a), the Participant's Beneficiary shall be
      entitled to receive the remaining Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit
      installments which would have been paid to the Participant had the
      Participant survived for the entire such 10-year period.

(b) 

Joint and 100%
      Survivor Benefit .  A joint and one hundred percent (100%)
      survivor annuity payable for life to the Participant and at his or her
      death to his or her Beneficiary, in an amount equal to one hundred percent
      (100%) of the amount payable during the Participant's life, for life (the
      "Joint and 100% Survivor Benefit"). 

(c) 

Joint and 50% Survivor
      Benefit .  A joint and fifty percent (50%) survivor
      annuity payable for life to the Participant and at his or her death to his
      or her Beneficiary, in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the
      amount payable during the Participant's life, for life (the "Joint and 50%
      Survivor Benefit"). 

(d) 

Lump Sum
      Benefit .  Effective for a Termination of Employment on or
      after June 19, 2001, if the Participant has attained the age of fifty-five
      years as of his or her Termination of Employment, the Participant is
      eligible to receive a lump sum benefit as described in Section
      3.4. 

The
Benefit Payout Alternatives described in Section 3.3(b), 3.3(c) and 3.3(d) shall
be the actuarially determined equivalent (as determined by the Administrative
Committee in its complete and sole discretion) of the Life With 10-Year Certain
Benefit that is converted by such election.  

Any
election made pursuant to this Section 3.3 may be made in the Participant's
Agreement or in a timely filed benefit payout election form. A Participant may
elect in his or her Agreement or in a timely filed benefit payout election form
to defer the time by which he or she is required to elect one of the foregoing
forms of Benefit Payout Alternatives.  A benefit payout election form
is timely filed only if it is delivered by the Participant, in writing,
telecopy, email or in another electronic format, to the Administrative Committee
no later than the last day of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in
which the Participant's Termination of Employment takes place or other benefit
payment under this Plan commences. 

If a
Participant's Agreement or benefit payout election form fails to show an
election of a Benefit Payout Alternative, or if the Participant having chosen to
defer his or her benefit payout election, fails to make a timely election of
benefits, such Participant shall be deemed to have elected and such
Participant's form of benefit shall be the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit
which is described in Section 3.3(a). 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in the event of the death of a designated annuitant during the
life of the Participant, the Participant's election to have a Benefit Payout
Alternative described in Section 3.3(b) or 3.3(c) shall be deemed to be revoked,
in which event, subject to the conditions and limitations specified in the
immediately preceding paragraph, or within the ninety-day period following the
death of the annuitant if such period would end later than the time allowed for
an election by the immediately preceding paragraph, the Participant may elect to
have his or her benefit, or remaining benefit, under the Plan, as the case may
be, paid in any of the forms described in Sections 3.3(a), 3.3(b) or
3.3(c).  In the event the Participant's designated annuitant
predeceases the Participant and the Participant fails to make a timely election
in accordance with the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence, the
Participant's benefit, or remaining benefit, as the case may be, shall be paid
or reinstated, as the case may be, in the form of a Life With 10-Year Certain
Benefit as described in Section 3.3(a).  Any conversion of benefit
from one form to another pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be
subject to actuarial adjustment (as determined by the Administrative Committee
in its complete and sole discretion) such that the Participant's new benefit is
the actuarial equivalent of the Participant's remaining prior form of
benefit.  Payments pursuant to Participant's new form of benefit shall
be effective commencing with the first monthly payment for the month following
the death of the annuitant.  

Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, payment in the form of a
Benefit Payout Alternative described in Section 3.3(b) or 3.3(c), with a
survivor annuity for the benefit of the Participant's spouse as Beneficiary, may
be waived by the annuitant with the consent of the Participant in the event of
the divorce (or legal separation) of said annuitant from said
Participant.  In such event, the Participant's benefit shall be
reinstated to the remainder of the Life with 10-Year Certain Benefit as
described in Section 3.3(a) (i.e., the 10-Year period as described in Section
3.3(a) shall be the same 10-year period as if such form of benefit was the form
of benefit originally selected and the expiration date of such period shall not
be extended beyond its original expiration date) effective commencing with the
first monthly payment following receipt of the waiver and Participant consent in
a form acceptable to the Administrative Committee.  A waiver of the
type described in this paragraph shall be irrevocable.  

3.4   

Lump
      Sum Benefit Election. 

(a) 

A
      Participant who has attained the age of fifty-five (55) years as of his or
      her Termination of Employment and whose Termination of Employment occurs
      after December 31, 2001 shall be eligible to make an election for a lump
      sum benefit.  A lump sum benefit election may be made in or
      after the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year in which
      the Participant attains age fifty-five (55);  provided ,  however , such
      election shall not be effective unless the Participant attains age
      fifty-five on or before such Participant's Termination of Employment, and,
      in such event, the Participant shall be deemed to have elected the Benefit
      Payout Alternative described in Section 3.3(a).

The
amount of such Participant's lump sum benefit shall be calculated as of the
Participant's Termination of Employment   applying the Mortality
Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in effect for the calendar year immediately
preceding the calendar year of the Participant s Termination of Employment, but
using the Participant s age as of the Participant s Termination of Employment.

(b) 

A
      Participant who was eligible to receive a lump sum benefit at Retirement,
      but who elected (or is deemed to have elected) one of the Benefit Payout
      Alternatives described in Section 3.3(a), 3.3(b) or 3.3(c), may elect to
      convert such annuity distribution to a lump sum benefit in a timely filed
      election.  The Beneficiary of a deceased Participant shall be
      eligible to make such conversion election to the same extent the
      Participant was eligible to make such election as of the day immediately
      preceding the Participant s death.  An election to convert an
      annuity benefit into a lump sum benefit is timely filed only if it is
      delivered by the Participant (or the Beneficiary), in writing, telecopy,
      email or in another electronic format, to the Administrative Committee no
      later than December 31 of the calendar year following the calendar year in
      which the Participant s Termination of Employment occurred.  The
      value of the lump sum benefit resulting from the conversion of a
      previously elected annuity benefit, shall be the Participant s lump sum
      benefit valued as of the Participant s Termination of Employment, less the
      payments, adjusted for interest (using the same GAAP Rate that was used to
      calculate the Lump Sum Benefit as of the Participant s Termination of
      Employment), that were received prior to the effective date of the
      conversion.  If a Participant (or his or her Beneficiary) makes
      a timely election to convert an annuity benefit into a lump sum benefit,
      such election shall be effective on or about March 1 st 
      of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which such
      election is made, and the annuity benefit shall continue to be paid
      through such March 1 st ,
      whereupon the lump sum benefit election shall become
      effective.  If an election to convert an annuity benefit into a
      lump sum benefit is not timely filed, the annuity benefit shall continue
      to be distributed in the form elected (or deemed elected) by the
      Participant.  

(c) 

A
      Participant or Beneficiary who elects a lump sum benefit under Section
      3.3(d) and/or Section 3.4 must, contemporaneous with such Lump Sum Benefit
      election, elect to defer all or a portion of the lump sum benefit
      (including any interest accrued thereon as provided in Section 3.5) in
      accordance with a payment schedule timely elected by the Participant (or
      Beneficiary);  provided,   however ,

(i) 

with
      respect to a lump sum benefit effective at Retirement, the Participant
      must defer the receipt of one hundred percent (100%) of such lump sum
      benefit (including any interest thereon) until the later
    of: 

(A)   

his
      or her Termination of Employment;
or 

(B)   

March
      1 of the calendar year in which the Participant realizes a Termination of
      Employment; 

(ii) 

the
      Participant must defer the receipt of at least seventy percent (70%) of
      such lump sum benefit (excluding any interest accrued thereon as provided
      in Section 3.5) until at least the third (3 rd )
      anniversary of such Participant s Termination of Employment; provided,
      however, if the Participant attained the age of sixty (60) as of his or
      her Termination of Employment, the Participant is not required to defer
      receipt of such Lump Sum Benefit if he or she agrees, in writing,
      substantially in the form provided in Attachment B, not to compete with an
      Employer Business within the meaning of Section 7.2 for a period of three
      (3) years from such Participant s Termination of Employment and further
      agrees that if he or she fails to abide by such agreement, the non-compete
      agreement is challenged or the non-compete agreement is unenforceable, he
      or she shall forfeit all benefits hereunder and repay the Lump Sum Benefit
      to AT  and 

(iii) 

the
      Participant (or Beneficiary) may not defer the receipt of all or any
      portion of such lump sum benefit, including any interest accrued thereon,
      beyond the twentieth (20 th )
      calendar year after the Participant s Termination of Employment.

The
payment schedule elected by a Participant or Beneficiary must comply with the
rules for payment schedules as adopted by the Administrative Committee (as
determined by the Administrative Committee in its sole and absolute discretion),
which, for example, may require payment of principal to be made no more
frequently than once per calendar year.    

If a
Participant who, as of his or her Retirement, timely elected to defer the
receipt of a lump sum benefit under this Section fails to timely elect a payment
schedule or if such Participant's timely filed payment schedule does not comply
with the rules for payment schedules, (i) thirty percent (30%) of such
Participant s lump sum benefit shall be paid to the Participant upon the later
of (A) such Participant s Termination of Employment, or (B) March 1 of the
calendar year in which the Participant realizes a Termination of Employment, and
(ii) the remaining seventy percent (70%) (plus any interest accrued thereon as
provided in Section  3.5 ) shall be paid to the
Participant on the third (3 rd )
anniversary of such Participant s Termination of Employment.  If a
Participant who timely elects to defer the receipt of a lump sum benefit
resulting from the conversion of an annuity benefit, fails to timely elect a
payment schedule or if such Participant's timely filed payment schedule does not
comply with the rules for payment schedules, (i) thirty percent (30%) of such
Participant s lump sum benefit shall be paid to the Participant on or about
March 1 st  of the
calendar year following the year in which the conversion election is made, and
(ii) the remaining seventy percent (70%) (plus any interest accrued thereon as
provided in Section  3.5 ) shall be paid to the
Participant on the third (3 rd )
anniversary of such Participant s Termination of
Employment.   

3.5   

Lump
      Sum Benefit Account Balance. 

The
Administrative Committee shall maintain a lump sum benefit account balance on
its books and records for each Participant (or Beneficiary) that elects a lump
sum benefit.  During such period of time that all or any portion of a
Participant s lump sum benefit is not paid, interest shall be credited using the
same methodology used by AT T for financial accounting purposes using the
GAAP Rate that was used to calculate such Participant s lump sum
benefit.  Payments of principal and interest shall be deducted from
the lump sum benefit account balance. 

3.6   

One-Time
      Acceleration of Deferred Lump Sum
Benefit. 

Participants
who realize a Termination of Employment on or after June 19, 2001 who timely
elected a lump sum benefit under Section 3.3(d) and/or Section 3.4 (and their
Beneficiary) may make a one-time, irrevocable election to accelerate the payment
of their unpaid lump sum benefit, if any, subject to the following conditions
and limitations. The Participant's (or Beneficiary s) election to accelerate his
unpaid lump sum benefit, if any, must be received by the Administrative
Committee on or before the last day of the calendar year immediately preceding
the calendar year in which such unpaid portion of the lump sum benefit
distribution is to be made.  Such distribution shall be made on March
1 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which such
acceleration election is made (the  Accelerated Distribution Date   provided ,  however , a
Participant who makes a lump sum benefit acceleration election pursuant to this
Section 3.6 whose Termination of Employment occurred within three (3) years of
the Accelerated Distribution Date shall receive thirty percent (30%) of such
lump sum benefit on the Accelerated Distribution Date and the remaining seventy
percent (70%) of such lump sum benefit (plus accrued interest as provided in
Section 3.5) on the third (3 rd )
anniversary of such Participant s Termination of Employment; provided, further,
however, if the Participant attained the age of sixty (60) as of his or her
Termination of Employment, the Participant may accelerate the distribution of
100% of his or her unpaid lump sum benefit if he or she agrees, in writing
substantially in the form provided in Attachment B, not to compete with an
Employer Business within the meaning of Section 7.2 for a period of three (3)
years from such Participant s Termination of Employment and further agrees that
if he or she fails to abide by such agreement, the non-compete agreement is
challenged or the non-compete agreement is unenforceable, he or she shall
forfeit all benefits hereunder and repay the Lump Sum Benefit to
AT T.   

4   

Death
      Benefits.  

If a
Participant dies prior to his or her Retirement, a pre-retirement death benefit
will be calculated and paid as though the Participant had
Retired  (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service
requirement otherwise applicable to certain Participants age 55 or older) on the
day prior to the date of death.  Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 3.3, if a Participant's Agreement or benefit payout election form fails
to show an election of a Benefit Payout Alternative, or if the Participant,
having chosen to defer his benefit election, failed to make a timely election of
a Benefit Payout Alternative prior to his or her death, the form of the
pre-retirement death benefit shall, at the option of the Participant's
Beneficiary, be either the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit form of the
Participant's benefit, a Beneficiary Life Annuity (as such term is hereinafter
described) based on the life expectancy of the Beneficiary, or, if the
Participant was eligible to make a Lump Sum Benefit election as of his or her
date of death, a Lump Sum Benefit (calculated in the manner described in this
Section 4.1).  If paid as a Beneficiary Life Annuity based on the Life
of the Beneficiary, such benefit shall be the actuarially determined equivalent
(as determined by the Administrative Committee in its complete and sole
discretion) of the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit;  provided ,  however , should the
Beneficiary die prior to the payment to the Beneficiary of the total dollar
amount of the Life with 10-Year Certain Benefit, the remaining dollar balance of
such Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit shall be paid in accordance with the
Participant's beneficiary designation and the Rules at the same monthly rate of
payment as would have been the monthly payment pursuant to the 10-year payment
schedule had the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit been
selected.   For purposes of this Section 4.1, a Lump Sum Benefit
shall be calculated in the same manner as provided in Section 3.4 as if the
Participant were alive; e.g., calculated as of the Participant's Death applying
the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in effect for the calendar year
immediately preceding the calendar year of the Participant s Death, but using
the Participant s age as of the Participant s date of death. 

In the
event that a Participant terminates employment prior to Retirement by reason of
a Disability that entitles the Participant to continue to accrue Years of
Service until Retirement Eligibility pursuant to Section 3.2 and thereafter dies
after attaining Retirement Eligibility (without regard to the 5 Years of Service
requirement otherwise applicable to certain Participants age 55 or older), the
Employer shall pay to the Participant's Beneficiary the Death Benefit specified
in Section 4.1 based on the Participant's Monthly Earnings for the twelve (12)
months preceding his or her Disability.  No death benefit shall be
payable if the Participant dies prior to attaining Retirement Eligibility
(without regard to the 5 Years of Service requirement otherwise applicable to
certain Participants age 55 or older). 

4.3   

Termination
      of Employment. 

If a
Participant terminates employment other than by reason of Disability prior to
Retirement Eligibility (without regard to the 5 Years of Service requirement
otherwise applicable to certain Participants age 55 or older), no death benefit
shall be payable to the Participant's Beneficiary. 

5.1   

Commencement
      of Payments. 

Notwithstanding
the designation of a specific date for payment of a distribution hereunder,
commencement of payments under this Plan may be delayed for administrative
reasons in the discretion of the Administrative Committee, but shall begin not
later than sixty (60) days following the occurrence of an event which entitles a
Participant (or a Beneficiary) to payments under this Plan. 

5.2   

Withholding;
      Unemployment Taxes. 

(a)  

A
      payment may be made from the Plan to reflect the payment of state, local,
      or foreign tax obligations arising from participation in the Plan that
      apply to an amount deferred under the Plan before the amount is paid or
      made available to a Participant (the    State,
      Local, or Foreign Tax Amount   ).  Such
      payment may not exceed the amount of such taxes due as a result of
      participation in the Plan.  Such payment may be made by
      distributions to the Participant in the form of withholding pursuant to
      provisions of applicable state, local, or foreign law or by distribution
      directly to the Participant.  Additionally, a payment may be
      made from the Plan to pay the income tax at source on wages imposed under
      Code Section 3401 as a result of the payment of the State, Local, or
      Foreign Tax Amount and to pay the additional income tax at source on wages
      attributable to such additional Code Section 3401 wages and
      taxes.  However, the total payment under this Section (a) shall
      not exceed the aggregate of the State, Local, or Foreign Tax Amount and
      the income tax withholding related to such State, Local, or Foreign Tax
      Amount.  

(b) 

A
      payment may be made from the Plan to pay the Federal Insurance
      Contributions Act tax imposed by Code Sections 3101, 3121(a), and
      3121(v)(2) on compensation deferred under the Plan (the    FICA
      Amount   ).  Additionally,
      a payment may be made from the Plan to pay the income tax at source on
      wages imposed under Code Section 3401 or the corresponding withholding
      provisions of applicable state, local or foreign tax laws as a result of
      the payment of the FICA Amount and to pay the additional income tax at
      source on wages attributable to the pyramiding section 3401 wages and
      taxes.  However, the total payment under this Section (b) shall
      not exceed the aggregate of the FICA Amount and the income tax withholding
      related to such FICA Amount.  

5.3   

Recipients
      of Payments; Designation of
Beneficiary. 

All
payments to be made under the Plan shall be made to the Participant during his
or her lifetime, provided that if the Participant dies prior to the completion
of such payments, then all subsequent payments under the Plan shall be made to
the Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries. 

In the
event of the death of a Participant, distributions/benefits under this Plan
shall pass to the Beneficiary (ies) designated by the Participant in accordance
with the Rules. 

The
reduction of any benefits payable under the AT T Pension Benefit Plan
("ATTPBP"), which results from participation in the AT T Senior Management
Deferred Compensation Program of 1988, will be restored under this
Plan. 

No
benefits shall be paid hereunder to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary
except as specifically provided herein. 

Notwithstanding
any election made by the Participant, the Administrative Committee in its sole
discretion may pay any benefit in the form of a lump sum payment if the lump sum
equivalent amount is or would be less than $10,000 when payment of such benefit
would otherwise commence. 

Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary: 

(a) 

Effective
      July 1, 1990, the monthly pension benefit amount then being paid hereunder
      to a retired Participant whose Plan payments began before January 1990
      shall be increased by 1/30 of 5.0% for each month from and including
      January 1988 or the month in which said Participant's pension payments
      began, whichever is later, through and including June 1990,
      inclusive. 

(b) 

Effective
      July 1, 1990, the present and/or future monthly payment hereunder of a
      surviving annuitant of a Participant whose Plan payments began before
      January 1990 or of a Participant who died in active service before January
      1990, shall be increased by the same percentage as the related pension was
      or would have been increased under the provisions of Paragraph (a) of this
      Section 5.7.1.  

5.7.2   

Enhanced
      Management Pension (EMP) Flow-Through for Participant Receiving Other than
      an ATTPBP "Cash Balance" Benefit.  

Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary: 

(a) 

Effective
      December 30, 1991, a Participant who as of the date of his or her
      Retirement satisfies the requirements for a service pension under the
      terms of the ATTPBP as it existed prior to December 30, 1991, shall have
      his or her SRIP Benefit determined without subtracting any increase in his
      or her ATTPBP (or successor plan) pension amount attributable to the
      Enhanced Management Pension ("EMP") provisions thereof, i.e., EMP benefits
      will "flow-through" to the Participant; provided, however, such additional
      benefit amounts corresponding to term of employment extending beyond age
      65 through application of the EMP provisions shall be
      subtracted. 

(b)  

EMP
      flow-through shall not apply in the case of any person who becomes an
      Eligible Employee after December 31,
1997. 

Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary: 

(a)Effective
      July 1, 1993, the monthly pension benefit amount then being paid hereunder
      to (1) all retired Participants whose Plan payments began before July 1,
      1993, (2) then current and contingent annuitants of such retired
      Participants who elected one of the Plan s survivor annuities and (3) then
      current annuitants of employees who before July 1, 1993 died in active
      service shall be increased in the same percentages as the ATTPBP ad hoc
      pension increase percentages effective July 1,
  1993. 

(b)Any
      time after July 1, 1993 that the ATTPBP is amended to provide for an ad
      hoc pension increase for ATTPBP nonbargained participants, the same
      percentage increase shall apply to Plan benefit
  amounts. 

6   

Conditions
      Related to Benefits.  

6.1   

Administration
      of Plan. 

The
Administrative Committee shall be the sole administrator of the Plan and will,
in its discretion, administer, interpret, construe and apply the Plan in
accordance with its terms.  The Administrative Committee shall further
establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary
or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  All decisions of the
Administrative Committee shall be final and binding unless the Board of
Directors should determine otherwise. 

6.2   

No
      Right to AT T Assets. 

Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall acquire by reason of the Plan any right
in or title to any assets, funds or property of any AT T company whatsoever
including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any specific funds
or assets which AT T, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation
of a liability hereunder, nor in or to any policy or policies of insurance on
the life of a Participant owned by AT T.  No trust shall be
created in connection with or by the execution or adoption of this Plan or any
Agreement, and any benefits which become payable hereunder shall be paid from
the general assets of AT T.  A Participant shall have only a
contractual right to the amounts, if any, payable hereunder unsecured by any
asset of AT T. 

AT T
shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits provided under the
Plan.  At its discretion, AT T may establish one or more trusts,
for the purpose of providing for the payment of such benefits.  Such
trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to
the claims of AT T's creditors.  To the extent any benefits
provided under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, AT T shall
have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid,
such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by
AT T. 

6.4   

No
      Employment Rights. 

Nothing
herein shall constitute a contract of continuing employment or in any manner
obligate any AT T company to continue the service of a Participant, or
obligate a Participant to continue in the service of any AT T company and
nothing herein shall be construed as fixing or regulating the compensation paid
to a Participant. 

6.5   

Modification
      or Termination of Plan. 

This Plan
may be modified or terminated at any time in accordance with the provisions of
AT T's Schedule of Authorizations; provided, however, the Plan shall not be
materially modified (within the meaning of Section 885(d)(2)(B) of the American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004) after October 3, 2004 unless such modification is
consistent with the guidance issued under Section 885(f) of the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 so that such amendment is not a material modification of
the Plan.  A modification may affect present and future Eligible
Employees.   AT T also reserves the sole right to terminate
at any time any or all Agreements.  In the event of termination of the
Plan or of a Participant's Agreement, a Participant shall be entitled to
benefits hereunder, if prior to the date of termination of the Plan or of his or
her Agreement, such Participant has attained 5 Years of Service, in which case,
regardless of the termination of the Plan/Participant's Agreement, such
Participant shall be entitled to benefits at such time as provided in and as
otherwise in accordance with the Plan and his or her Agreement, provided,
however, Participant's benefit shall be computed as if Participant had
terminated employment as of the date of termination of the Plan or of his or her
Agreement.  No amendment, including an amendment to this Section 6.5,
shall be effective, without the written consent of a Participant, to alter, to
the detriment of such Participant, the benefits described in this Plan as
applicable to such Participant as of the effective date of such
amendment.  For purposes of this Section 6.5, an alteration to the
detriment of a Participant shall mean a reduction in the amount payable
hereunder to a Participant to which such Participant would be entitled if such
Participant terminated employment at such time, or any change in the form of
benefit payable hereunder to a Participant to which such Participant would be
entitled if such Participant terminated employment at such time.  Any
amendment which reduces Participant's benefit hereunder to adjust for a change
in his or her pension benefit resulting from an amendment to any
company-sponsored defined benefit pension plan which changes the pension
benefits payable to all employees, shall not require the Participant's
consent.  Written notice of any amendment shall be given to each
Participant.  

If at the
time payments or installments of payments are to be made hereunder, a
Participant or his or her Beneficiary or both are indebted to any AT T
company, then the payments remaining to be made to the Participant or his or her
Beneficiary or both may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, be reduced
by the amount of such indebtedness; provided, however, that an election by the
Board of Directors not to reduce any such payment or payments shall not
constitute a waiver of such AT T company's claim for such
indebtedness. 

In the
event of a change in the employment status of a Participant to a status in which
he is no longer an Eligible Employee, the Participant shall immediately cease to
be eligible for any benefits under this Plan except such benefits as had
previously vested.  Only Participant's Years of Service and Earnings
history prior to the change in his employment status shall be taken into account
for purposes of determining Participant's vested benefits
hereunder. 

7   

Miscellaneous.

Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign,
transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt of the amounts, if any,
payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are,
expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part
of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or
sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate
maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by
operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's
bankruptcy or insolvency. 

Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan, all benefits provided under the Plan with
respect to a Participant shall be forfeited and canceled in their entirety if
the Participant, without the consent of AT T and while employed by AT T
or any subsidiary thereof or within three (3) years after termination of such
employment, engages in competition with AT T or any subsidiary thereof or
with any business with which AT T or a subsidiary or affiliated company has
a substantial interest (collectively referred to herein as "Employer business")
and fails to cease and desist from engaging in said competitive activity within
120 days following receipt of written notice from AT T to Participant
demanding that Participant cease and desist from engaging in said competitive
activity.  For purposes of this Plan, engaging in competition with any
Employer business shall mean engaging by the Participant in any business or
activity in the same geographical market where the same or substantially similar
business or activity is being carried on as an Employer
business.  Such term shall not include owning a nonsubstantial
publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that competes with an
Employer business. However, engaging in competition with an Employer business
shall include representing or providing consulting services to, or being an
employee of, any person or entity that is engaged in competition with any
Employer business or that takes a position adverse to any Employer
business.  Accordingly, benefits shall not be provided under this Plan
if, within the time period and without the written consent specified,
Participant either engages directly in competitive activity or in any capacity
in any location becomes employed by, associated with, or renders service to any
company, or parent or affiliate thereof, or any subsidiary of any of them, if
any of them is engaged in competition with an Employer business, regardless of
the position or duties the Participant takes and regardless of whether or not
the employing company, or the company that Participant becomes associated with
or renders service to, is itself engaged in direct competition with an Employer
business. 

Any
notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrative Committee under
the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by
certified mail, to the principal office of AT T, directed to the attention
of the Senior Vice President-Human Resources.  Any notice required or
permitted to be given to a Participant shall be sufficient if in writing and
hand delivered, or sent by certified mail, to Participant at Participant's last
known mailing address as reflected on the records of his or her employing
company or the company from which the Participant incurred a Termination of
Employment, as applicable.  Notice shall be deemed given as of the
date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the
postmark or on the receipt for certification. 

In the
event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the
same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this plan. 

This Plan
shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
Texas to the extent not preempted by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder ("ERISA"). 

7.6   

Plan
      Provisions in Effect Upon Termination of
  Employment. 

The Plan
provisions in effect upon a Participant's Termination of Employment shall govern
the provision of benefits to such Participant.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing sentence, the benefits of a Participant whose Retirement occurred
prior to February 1, 1989, shall be subject to the provisions of Section 3.3
hereof.  

7.7   

Plan
      To Be Interpreted and Applied So As Not To Be Subject To Code Section
      409A. 

Notwithstanding
any provision to the contrary in this Plan, each provision in this Plan shall be
interpreted and applied so that amounts deferred under the Plan are not subject
to the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and any provision that would
conflict with such requirements shall be applied and construed, as determined by
the Administrative Committee in its complete discretion, consistent with the
foregoing.  The Administrative Committee   s determination,
as provided herein, shall be final and conclusive.   

SUPPLEMENTAL
RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN AGREEMENT 

THIS
AGREEMENT is made and entered into at San Antonio, Texas as of this _____ day of
_______________, by and between AT T Inc. ("AT T") and  __________
(" Participant"). 

WHEREAS,
AT T has adopted a Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (the "Plan");
and 

WHEREAS,
the Participant has been determined to be eligible to participate in the Plan;
and 

WHEREAS,
the Plan requires that an agreement be entered into between AT T and
Participant setting out certain terms and benefits of the Plan as they apply to
the Participant; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, AT T and the Participant hereby agree as follows: 

1.The
      Plan is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement as
      though set forth in full herein.  The parties shall be bound by,
      and have the benefit of, each and every provision of the Plan as set forth
      in the Plan. 

2.The
      Participant was born on ___________, and his or her present employment
      began on _____________, 

3.The
      Participant's "Retirement Percent" which is described in the Plan shall be
      ________ percent (__%) 

4. Election as to Form of
      Benefits .  The Participant elects the Benefit Payout
      Alternative as shown on the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP)
      Benefit Election form attached hereto and incorporated herein for all
      purposes (the "Form"). The Participant may change this election at any
      time prior to the end of the calendar year immediately preceding the
      Participant's Termination of Employment, and the Participant's election in
      effect at the time will control the distribution of benefit under the
      Plan.  If the Participant has not elected a Benefit Payout
      Alternative prior to the end of the calendar year immediately preceding
      the Participant's Termination of Employment, the Participant's form of
      benefit under the Plan shall be the Life With 10-Year Certain
      Benefit. 

This
Agreement supersedes all prior Supplemental Retirement Income Plan Agreements
between AT T and Participant, and any amendments thereto, and shall inure to
the benefit of, and be binding upon, AT T, its successors and assigns, and
the Participant and his or her Beneficiaries. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have signed and entered into this Agreement
on and as of the date first above written. 

AT T
INC.: 

By:Senior
Executive Vice President-Human Resources 

PARTICIPANT: 

Due
Date: 

        Form SRIP-4 (9/01) 

Supplemental
      Retirement Income Plan (SRIP) 

Payment
Election 

Name:                                                                               Social Security Number: 

1.  Form
      of Payment 

I hereby
elect the following form of benefit for my SRIP benefit in accordance with and
subject to the terms of the 

      Plan: 

a.   

____Life
      with 10-Year Certain Benefit.  Complete Section
    4. 

b.   

____Joint
      and 100% Survivor Benefit.  Complete Section
  4. 

c.   

____Joint
      and 50% Survivor Benefit.  Complete Section
  4. 

d.   

____Lump
      Sum.  Complete Section 2. (Only available if age 54 or older at
      time of election and age 55 or older at Termination of
      Employment). 

e.   

____Defer
      making an election until no later than the last day of the calendar year
      preceding the calendar year in which my Termination of Employment takes
      place or my SRIP benefit commences. Complete Section
  4. 

Default Distribution:  If a
payment election is not on file as of the last day of the year prior to your
retirement or termination, the form of benefit shall be the Life with10-Year
Certain Benefit. 

2.  SRIP Lump Sum Deferral
      Amount  

You must
defer the receipt of at least seventy percent (70%) of your lump sum (excluding
accrued interest thereon) until at least the third anniversary of your
retirement (the "70% Rule").  Please indicate below the portion of
your lump sum that you wish to defer: 

I wish to
defer _______% (not less than 70%).  Any portion not deferred will be
paid within 60 days following my Termination of Employment.  Complete
Section 3. 

      Note:  You
have a one-time right to accelerate the distribution of your deferred balance by
making an election prior to the first day of the calendar year in which you
desire to receive an accelerated distribution of your deferred
balance. 

3.  Distribution Election for Deferred
      Lump Sum and Accrued Interest ("Deferred
  Balance")  

Please
indicate how you would like your deferred balance distributed. 

Complete
      Section 3a if you wish to receive monthly interest only payments. You must
      also complete Section 3b to elect how to receive your remaining deferred
      balance. 

Complete
      Section 3b to specify distribution of your deferred balance. Subject to
      the 70% Rule, payment will begin within 60 days of your retirement date if
      you elect distribution in your year of
  retirement. 

The
      deferred balance must be distributed no later than the 20th anniversary of
      your retirement. 

If
      applicable, the dates you complete in Section a and b cannot
      overlap. 

a.   

Interest Paid
      Monthly  

Please distribute interest on my deferred balance paid monthly
commencing 

      ______________(month/year)
through ______________(month/year). 

      Note:  Also
complete Section 3b to elect payment of deferred balance. 

b.   

Ratable Distribution
      Over a Period of Years  

Please make an annual payment of my deferred balance on March 1 st  of each
year paid for ________ 

(insert
number from 1 through 20) year(s) commencing ___________(insert
year).  Please choose one distribution method as follows: 

r   

Paid
      in equal annual installments for the period(s) selected in
    3b. 

Note:  You may not request
more than 30% of your lump sum within 36 months following
retirement.  

Complete
Section 4. 

4.  Authorization 

I hereby
authorize and make the above elections. 

</EX-10.C>

<EX-10.D>
 7
 ex10d.htm
 SR MGMT DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

ex10d.htm 

Exhibit 10-d 

SBC
Communications Inc. 

Senior
Management 

      Deferred
Compensation Plan 

      (8 Year
Units) 

Effective
For Units of Participation 

      Having a
Unit Start Date Prior to 

      January
1, 1988 

Effective:
January 1, 1984 

      As
amended through April 1, 2002 

Senior
Management 

      Deferred
Compensation Plan 

Section
      1 

Statement of
      Purpose .  The purpose of the Senior Management Deferred
      Compensation Plan is to provide retirement, death, or
      termination-of-employment benefits to a select group of highly compensated
      or management employees consisting of Senior Managers of SBC
      Communications Inc. (the  Company ) and its Subsidiaries ( Participating
      Companies ). 

Section
      2 

Definitions .  For
      the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the
      meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates
      otherwise: 

1. 

Administrative
      Committee .   Administrative Committee  means a committee
      of three or more members, at least one of whom is a Senior Manager, who
      shall be designated by the Senior Vice President-Human Resources to
      administer the Plan pursuant to Section
3. 

2. 

Agreement .   Agreement 
      means the written agreement entitled  Senior Management Deferred
      Compensation Plan Agreement  (substantially in the form attached to this
      Plan) that shall be entered into by the Employer and a Participant with
      respect to each Unit of Participation to carry out the Plan with respect
      to such Participant. 

3. 

Annualized Total Unit
      Deferral Amount .  The  Annualized Total Unit Deferral
      Amount  means the Total Unit Deferral Amount divided by eight
      years. 

4. 

Beneficiary .
       Beneficiary  means the person or persons designated as such in accordance
      with Section 7. 

5. 

Board .   Board 
      means the Board of Directors of SBC Communications
  Inc. 

6. 

Compensation .   Compensation 
      means the Participant's monthly base salary as of the Participant's Unit
      Start Date, but before reduction for compensation deferred pursuant to
      this Plan or any Plan of the Employer whereby compensation is deferred
      including but not limited to a plan whereby compensation is deferred in
      accordance with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
    Code. 

7. 

Deferral Amounts For
      All Units of Participation .  Deferral Amounts for all Units of
      Participation  means the aggregate amount of Compensation deferred in a
      given calendar year with respect to all Units of Participation as
      specified in Exhibit A of a Participant's
  Agreements. 

8. 

Deferred Compensation
      Account .   Deferred Compensation Account  means the
      account maintained on the books of account of the Employer for each
      Participant pursuant to Section
5.1. 

9. 

Disability .
       Disability  means a disability as defined in the SBC Communications Inc.
      Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan and the SBC Communications
      Inc. Senior Management Long Term Disability Plan covering the
      Participant. 

10. 

Early
      Retirement .   Early Retirement  means the termination of
      a Participant s employment with Employer for reasons other than death on
      or after Participant attains age
55. 

11. 

Election
      Form .  The Election Form  means an Eligible Employee's
      written election to participate in the Plan with respect to each Unit of
      Participation in accordance with Section
4. 

12. 

Eligible
      Employee .   Eligible Employee  means an Employee of the
      Employer who (a) is in active service, (b) has an employment status which
      has been approved by the Board or its Chairman to be eligible to
      participate in this Plan, and (c) who continuously maintains the
      employment status upon which such approval was
  based. 

13. 

Employee .
       Employee  means any person employed by the Employer on a regular
      full-time salaried basis. 

14. 

Employer .   Employer 
      means SBC Communications Inc. and any of its
  Subsidiaries. 

15. 

Normal
      Retirement .   Normal Retirement  means termination of a
      Participant s employment with Employer for reasons other than death on or
      after the date Participant attains age
65. 

16. 

Participant .   Participant 
      means an Eligible Employee who has entered into an Agreement to
      participate in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section
      4. 

17. 

Plan
      Year .   Plan Year  means the calendar
    year. 

18. 

Rotational Work
      Assignment Company ( RWAC )   shall mean Bell Communications
      Research, Inc. ( Bellcore ), formerly the Central Services Organization,
      Inc., and/or any other entity with which SBC Communications Inc. or any of
      its Subsidiaries may enter into an agreement to provide an employee for a
      rotational work assignment. 

19.   

SBC Communications
      Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried. Employees .   SBC
      Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees  means the SBC
      Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees and any successor
      plan adopted by the Employer. 

20. 

Subsidiary .  A
       Subsidiary  of the Company is any corporation, partnership, venture or
      other entity in which the Company has, either directly or indirectly, at
      least a 10% ownership interest. 

21. 

Total Unit Deferral
      Amount .   Total Unit Deferral Amount  means the sum of
      all amounts of Compensation deferred during the Unit Deferral Period with
      respect to a Unit of Participation, as shown in Exhibit A of Participant's
      Agreement for that Unit of
Participation. 

22. 

Unit Deferral
      Period .   Unit Deferral Period  means the number of
      months the Participant elects to reduce his Compensation with respect to a
      Unit of Participation, as shown in Exhibit A of Participant's Agreement
      for that Unit of Participation. 

23. 

Unit of
      Participation .  A  Unit of Participation  consists of a
      stated Total Unit Deferral Amount and associated Employer contributions
      which provide stated benefits in accordance with the Participant's
      Agreement for that Unit of
Participation. 

24.   

Unit Start
      Date .   Unit Start Date  means the date shown in
      Exhibit A of a Participant's Agreement for a given Unit of
      Participation which follows an Eligible Employee's election to commence a
      Unit of Participation under the Plan.  For years subsequent to
      the first year as an Eligible Employee, the Unit Start Date will be
      January 1, unless the Administrative Committee, in its sole discretion
      deems that another date is allowable.  A Unit of Participation
      may not commence if the employee cannot complete eight (8) years of
      participation prior to age 65, unless otherwise permitted by the
      Administrative Committee. 

Section
      3 

Administration of the
      Plan . 

3.1 

Administration of
      Plan .  The Administrative Committee shall be the sole
      administrator of the Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret,
      construe and apply its provisions in accordance with its terms. The
      Administrative Committee shall further establish, adopt or revise such
      rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or advisable for the
      administration of the Plan. All decisions of the Administrative Committee
      shall be final and binding unless the Board of Directors should determine
      otherwise. 

Section
      4 

Participation . 

4.1   

Election to Commence a
      Unit Of Participation .  Any Eligible Employee may elect
      to commence deferral of Compensation with respect to a Unit of
      Participation in the Plan by filing a completed Election Form with the
      Administrative Committee prior to the beginning of the Unit Start Date.
      Pursuant to said Election Form, the Eligible Employee shall elect a Total
      Unit Deferral Amount and a Unit Deferral Period to be specified in Exhibit
      A of Participant's Agreement with respect to such
  Unit. 

The
Deferral Amount For All Units of Participation cannot exceed one hundred percent
(100%) of Compensation during any calendar year.  In order to
participate in the Plan, a Participant must defer a minimum of six percent (6%)
of his Compensation at the time of commencement of his first Unit of
Participation in the Plan.  Subsequent additional Units of
Participation require a minimum annual Participant deferral of $1,000. The sum
of the Participant's contributions, if any, to the Southwestern Bell Savings
Plan for Salaried Employees plus the Annualized Total Unit Deferral Amounts for
all Units of Participation in a given year may not exceed thirty percent (30%)
of a Participant's Compensation for that year. 

4.2 

Termination Of
      Election .  A Participant's election to defer Compensation
      is irrevocable upon the filing of his Election Form with the
      Administrative Committee, provided, however, that the election may be
      terminated with respect to Compensation not yet paid by mutual agreement
      in writing between the Participant and the Administrative Committee. Such
      termination if approved shall be effective beginning the first day of the
      month following the execution of such mutual
  agreement. 

Section
      5 

Deferred
      Compensation . 

5.1 

Deferred Compensation
      Account .  The Administrative Committee shall establish
      and maintain a separate Deferred Compensation Account for each Participant
      for each Unit of Participation. Each of a Participant's Deferred
      Compensation Accounts will be credited from time to time with interest on
      the balance compounded at an eight percent (8%) annual
    rate. 

5.2 

Total Unit Deferral
      Amount .  The Participant's Total Unit Deferral Amount is
      deferred in equal amounts on a monthly basis over the Unit Deferral Period
      or as otherwise may be permitted by the Administrative Committee. The
      amount deferred each month with respect to a given Unit of Participation
      shall be credited by the Employer to the Participant's Deferred
      Compensation Account for that Unit of Participation on the last day of
      such month. 

The
Participant will be permitted to complete deferrals of the Total Unit Deferral
Amount on an accelerated basis over a shorter period than the original Unit
Deferral Period at such times and in such manner as may be permitted by the
Administrative Committee. In this connection the Administrative Committee may
permit a Participant to defer an additional amount or percent of his
Compensation and/or all or a portion of his Short Term Incentive Award, subject
to the limitations contained in Section 4.1.  Any acceleration in
deferrals by a Participant with respect to a given Unit of Participation shall
not increase the Total Unit Deferral Amount and shall not cause any change in
the amounts of the benefits payable pursuant to Section 6 on account of such
Unit of Participation or any change in the maximum Employer Contribution
pursuant to Section 5.3 for the year, but shall be applied proportionally as a
credit against the Total Unit Deferral Amount and Equivalent Employer
Contribution Shortfall and shorten the length of the Unit Deferral Period for
such Unit of Participation.  In no event shall any such increase in
deferrals by a Participant result in any reduction in the amounts by which the
Participant's Compensation is reduced in subsequent years pursuant to Exhibit A
to the Participant's Agreement with respect to such Unit of Participation prior
to completion of deferral of the Total Unit Deferral Amount for such Unit of
Participation.  Equivalent Employer Contribution Shortfall shall mean
an amount equal to the Employer Contribution that would be associated with the
accelerated deferral if said deferral amount was deferred in the manner as
originally agreed upon as timely.  Amounts credited against Equivalent
Employer Contribution Shortfall shall be immediately vested. 

5.3 

Employer
      Contribution .  Participation in this Plan does not
      preclude participation in the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for
      Salaried Employees.  For a given year, the aggregate Employer
      contribution to both the Savings Plan for Salaried Employees and this Plan
      on behalf of a Participant will be an amount equal to the Company Match
      Rate Expressed as a Percent* as in effect during all or portions of that
      year times the Participant's Compensation as in effect during all or
      portions of that year which is contributed or deferred during that year in
      accordance with each Plan, respectively.  Any amount of Employer
      contribution not allocated to the Savings Plan for Salaried Employees will
      be credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation
      Accounts.  The amount or percent of a Participant's Compensation
      to be allocated to Basic Allotments in the Savings Plan for Salaried
      Employees shall be specified in Paragraph 3 of his
    Agreement. 

5.4 

Vesting of Deferred
      Compensation Account .  A Participant's interest in his
      Deferred Compensation Account shall vest at the same rate and in the same
      manner as it would under the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for
      Salaried Employees, as in effect from time to time, had both the amount of
      the Participant's Deferral Amount and the Employer contribution with
      respect to that Participant's Deferral Amount for any given Unit of
      Participation been contributed instead to the Savings Plan for Salaried
      Employees.  For this purpose all years of previous participation
      under the Savings Plan for Salaried Employees, for purposes of determining
      a Participant's vested interest under that Plan, shall be taken into
      account in determining the Participant's vested interest under this
      Plan. 

*         The
Company Match Rate Expressed as a Percent means the maximum percent of salary
that can be received as Employer matching contribution under the SBC
Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees, e.g., a match of 66
2/3% of the amount of basic allotment (up to 6%) of salary results in a Company
Match Rate Expressed as a Percent of .667 x 6% = 4%. 

Section
      6 

Benefits . 

6.1 

Normal
      Retirement .  Upon Normal Retirement, Employer shall pay
      to Participant the amount per month specified in Paragraph 6 of his
      Agreement for a period of one hundred eighty (180) months ( Standard
      Retirement Benefit ).  Alternatively, a Participant may elect to
      receive the present value equivalent of his Standard Retirement Benefit
      ( Alternative Retirement Benefit ). He may elect in his Agreement to
      receive this Alternative Retirement Benefit as (i) a lump sum payment,
      (ii) sixty (60) monthly installments, or (iii) one hundred twenty (120)
      monthly installments.  Any such election once made shall be
      irrevocable. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, a Participant may elect in his Agreement to defer the time by
which he is required to elect the manner of payment of any Alternative
Retirement Benefit until no later than the last day of the calendar year
preceding the calendar year in which Normal Retirement takes
place.  Any such deferred election must be made in writing to the
Administrative Committee.  If a Participant's Agreement fails to show
an election of a manner of payment of an Alternative Retirement Benefit, or if
the Participant, having chosen to defer his election, fails to make a timely
election, such Participant will receive the Standard Retirement Benefit upon his
Normal Retirement. 

In the
event that a final determination shall be made by the Internal Revenue Service
or any court of competent jurisdiction that by reason of Normal Retirement a
Participant has recognized gross income for Federal Income tax purposes in
excess of the Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit actually paid by the
Employer to which such gross income is attributable, the Employer shall deem the
Participant to have elected a lump sum payment of his Alternative Retirement
Benefit effective as of his Normal Retirement.  Under these
circumstances, the Employer shall pay to the Participant in one lump sum, within
sixty (60) days of such final determination, an amount equal to the excess of
(a) the lump sum Alternative Retirement Benefit that would have been payable to
the Participant had the Participant so elected such an Alternative Retirement
Benefit in his Agreement plus interest thereon of 10% per annum, compounded
annually, from a Participant's Normal Retirement until receipt of such lump sum
payment, less (b) any amounts of Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit
theretofore paid to such Participant plus interest thereon at 10% per annum,
compounded annually from the date of receipt of each such amount to the date a
Participant received such lump sum payment.  If a benefit is payable
to a Participant pursuant to this paragraph, no other Standard or Alternative
Retirement Benefit shall be payable under the Plan. 

If a
Participant who is entitled to either a Standard or Alternative Retirement
Benefit dies after his Normal Retirement, his Beneficiary shall be entitled to
receive the remaining installments, if any, of such Standard or Alternative
Retirement Benefit. 

6.2 

Early
      Retirement .  Upon Early Retirement after deferral of a
      Participant's Total Unit Deferral Amount, Employer shall pay to
      Participant commencing on the date he attains age sixty-five (65) the
      Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit as specified in Paragraphs 6
      and 7 of his Agreement. 

A
Participant may elect in his Agreements to commence payment, following his Early
Retirement and completion of deferral of his Total Unit Deferral Amount, of any
Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit at a date prior to the Participant's
attainment of age sixty-five (65), but no earlier than eight years following the
Unit Start Date.  However, in such event, the amount of the Standard
Retirement Benefit shall be reduced by the result of multiplying (i) fifty
one-hundredths of one percent (0.50%) of such Early Retirement Benefit by (ii)
the number of whole and fractional months between the Participant's age on the
date of commencement of benefits and the date on which the Participant will
attain age sixty-five (65).  The amount of any Alternative Retirement
Benefit payable pursuant to this paragraph shall be the actuarial equivalent of
the Standard Retirement Benefit payable pursuant to this
paragraph.  Any such election in any Agreement once made shall be
irrevocable. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, a Participant may elect in his Agreement to defer the time by
which he is required to elect commencement of payment of Standard Retirement
Benefit or Alternative Retirement Benefit until no later than the last day of
the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the Participant's Early
Retirement takes place.  Any such deferred election must be made in
writing to the Administrative Committee.  If a Participant's
Agreements fail to show an election as to timing of commencement of payment of a
Standard or Alternative Early Retirement Benefit, or if the Participant, having
chosen to defer his election, fails to make a timely election, such
Participant's Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit, if any, shall commence
as of the date he reaches age sixty-five (65) in accordance with the first
paragraph of this Section 6.2. 

In the
event that a final determination shall be made by the Internal Revenue Service
or any court of competent jurisdiction that by reason of Early Retirement a
Participant has recognized gross income for Federal income tax purposes prior to
the actual payment to such Participant of the Standard or Alternative Retirement
Benefit to which such gross income is attributable, the Employer shall deem the
Participant to have elected a Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit
commencing on the date as of which such Participant is determined to have
recognized his first payment of Standard or Alternative Retirement
Benefit.  Under these circumstances, the Employer shall pay to the
Participant in one lump sum within sixty (60) days following such final
determination an amount equal to the sum of (a) the excess of (i) the aggregate
of the payments that would have been made to the Participant through such date
had the Participant so elected such a Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit
over (ii) any amounts of Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefits theretofore
paid to such Participant and (b) 10% per annum interest, compounded annually, on
such payments from the date each would otherwise have been made had such
Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit been elected until the date of actual
payment. Thereafter, the Employer shall pay to the Participant the remaining
installments of Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit in accordance with
the deemed Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit election described in the
preceding two sentences.  If a benefit is payable to a Participant
pursuant to this paragraph, no other Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit
shall be payable under the Plan. 

If a
Participant dies subsequent to commencement of payment of a Standard or
Alternative Retirement Benefit, his Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive the
remaining installments of Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit, if
any. 

If a
Participant dies after his Early Retirement or eligibility for Early Retirement
and after his eligibility to commence payments of his Standard or Alternative
Retirement Benefit, his Beneficiaries will receive his Standard or Alternative
Retirement Benefit as if payments had commenced on the date of the Participant's
death. 

If a
Participant dies after his Early Retirement or eligibility for Early Retirement
but prior to is eligibility to commence payments of his Standard or Alternative
Retirement Benefit, his Beneficiaries will receive a Pre-Retirement Survivor
Benefit in accordance with Section 6.4. 

6.3 

Termination
      Benefit . 

a. 

Termination
      of Employment Before Attaining Age 55 or After Attaining Age 55 but Prior
      To Completion of Deferral of Total Unit Deferral Amount.  Upon
      any termination of employment of the Participant for reasons other than
      death before the Participant attains age fifty-five (55), or after the
      Participant attains age fifty-five (55) but before the Participant
      completes deferral of his Total Unit Deferral Amount, the Company shall
      pay to the Participant, with respect to each Unit of Participation if
      Participant terminates employment before attaining age fifty-five (55), or
      with respect to each Unit of Participation for which deferrals have not
      been completed if Participant terminates employment after attaining age
      fifty-five (55) but before completing deferral of his Total Unit Deferral
      Amount, as Compensation earned for services rendered prior to his
      termination of service, a lump sum equal to the vested portion of the
      amounts standing credited to his Deferred Compensation Account as of the
      date of such termination of service ( Termination
    Benefit ). 

b. 

Termination of a Unit
      of Participation .  A Participant may discontinue a Unit
      of Participation while continuing in the service of the Employer.
      Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, upon such discontinuance,
      the Participant shall immediately cease to be eligible for any benefits
      other than his Termination Benefit with respect to that Unit of
      Participation.  No other benefit shall be payable with regard to
      his Unit of Participation to either the Participant or any Beneficiary of
      such Participant.  The Participant shall continue to be credited
      with interest on the amounts standing credited to his Deferred
      Compensation Accounts as provided under Section 5.1 and to vest in such
      amounts as provided under Section 5.4 while he remains in employment with
      the Employer until payment of his Termination Benefit.  However,
      no further Participant deferrals or Employer contributions shall be made
      pursuant to Sections 5.2 or 5.3 with respect to a Unit of Participation
      after a Participant discontinues or terminates such Unit of
      Participation. 

A
Participation shall terminate a Unit of Participation if he terminates his
election to defer Compensation with the approval of the Administrative Committee
pursuant to Section 4.2. 

6.4 

Pre-Retirement
      Survivor Benefit .  If the Participant dies prior to his
      eligibility for Early Retirement while in service with the Employer, the
      Employer shall pay to the Participant s Beneficiary the amount per month
      specified in paragraph 5 of his Agreement for the greater of one hundred
      twenty (120 months or the number of months from the date of Participant s
      death until he would have been age 65 ( Pre-Retirement Survivor
      Benefit ). 

6.5 

Additional
      Benefit .  The reduction of any benefit payable under the
      SBC Communications Inc. Management Pension Plan, which results from
      participation in this Plan, will be restored as an additional benefit
      under this Plan or any other comparable deferral plan. The Company shall
      have the option to pay in a lump sum the present value equivalent of the
      pension retirement benefit (life
annuity). 

6.6 

Survivor Spouse
      Benefit .  If a Participant dies subsequent to eligibility
      to commence payment of a Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit, and
      has a surviving spouse, the Employer shall pay to the spouse commencing on
      the later of (a) the sixteenth (16th) year after commencement of payment
      of any Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit or (b) the first of the
      month following the Participant's death, an amount per month for the life
      of the spouse equal to sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the
      Standard Retirement Benefit.  If the spouse is more than three
      (3) years younger or older than the Participant on the date of
      Participant's death, the amount of such benefit shall be actuarially
      adjusted based on standard mortality
tables. 

6.7 

Disability .  In
      the event that a Participant suffers a Disability, amounts that otherwise
      would have been credited to the Deferred Compensation Accounts of the
      Participant in accordance with Sections 5.2 and 5.3 will continue to be
      credited to such Deferred Compensation Accounts at the same times and in
      the same amounts as they would have been credited if the Participant had
      not suffered a Disability.  During such Disability, deferrals
      shall continue to be made by the Participant in accordance with Section
      5.2 for as long as he is eligible to receive monthly disability benefits
      equal to 100 percent of his monthly base salary at the time of his
      Disability.  If the Participant is no longer eligible to receive
      monthly disability benefits equal to 100 percent of his monthly base
      salary at the time of his Disability, the deferrals which would otherwise
      have been made by the Participant in accordance with Section 5.2 shall be
      contributed by the Employer.  Employer contributions shall
      continue to be made by the Employer in accordance with Section
      5.3. 

If the
Participant recovers from his Disability and returns to employment with the
Employer in an employment status which would make him eligible to participate in
this Plan or another similar Deferred Compensation Plan of the Employer, the
Participant shall resume making deferrals in accordance with Section 5.2 and
shall thereafter repay any amounts which were previously contributed by the
Employer in lieu of deferrals which would otherwise have been made by the
Participant in accordance with Section 5.2.  Such repayment shall be
made following the end of the Unit Deferral Period in monthly amounts equal to
the Amount Deferred per Month during the Unit Deferral Period as shown on
Exhibit A, or such larger amounts as the Participant may elect.  The
amounts to be repaid by the Participant shall be equal to the amounts
contributed by the Employer which would otherwise have been deferred by the
Employee pursuant to Section 5.2, compounded at an eleven percent (11%) annual
rate on all such amounts from the date of crediting such amounts to the
Participant's Deferred Compensation Account until repaid. 

All
Participant deferrals and Employer contributions shall cease upon the happening
of the earliest of the following: 

(a) 

the
      Participant's death; 

(b) 

the
      Participant's attainment of age 65;
or 

(c) 

the
      Participant's election to take Early Retirement under the
      Plan. 

If a
Participant's Disability terminates by reason of his death, the rights of his
Beneficiary shall be those pursuant to whichever of Section 6.1, 6.2, 6.4, 6.5,
or 6.6 would have been applicable if the Participant had not been disabled but
rather had been in service on the date of his death and either died or retired
on such date, whichever would be most advantageous to such
Beneficiary.  If a Participant's Disability terminates by reason of
(b) above, the Participant shall be treated as having a Normal Retirement upon
the attainment of age 65 and shall be entitled to a Normal Retirement Benefit
determined pursuant to Section 6.1, subject to reduction as provided below in
the following paragraph.  If a Participant's Disability terminates by
reason of (c) above, the Participant shall be treated as having an Early
Retirement on the date elected by the Participant and shall be entitled to an
Early Retirement Benefit determined pursuant to Section 6.2, subject to
reduction as provided below in the following paragraph. 

A
reduction shall be made in the Normal Retirement or Early Retirement Benefit
paid to the Participant or his Beneficiary, with respect to any Unit of
Participation for which a portion of the Total Unit Deferral Amount required
under Section 5.2 has been contributed by the Employer rather than from
deferrals by the Employee, unless such amount has been repaid by the Employee as
described in the second paragraph of this Section 6.7.  Each payment
of the Normal or Early Retirement Benefit shall be reduced by the amount
necessary to amortize over such payments an amount equal to the sum of (i) the
amounts contributed by the Employer which would otherwise have been deferred by
the Employee pursuant to Section 5.2 plus (ii) the amounts contributed by the
Employer pursuant to Section 5.3 which are matching contributions based on
amounts described in (i) above, compounded at an eleven percent (11%) annual
rate on all such amounts from the date of crediting such amounts to the
Participant's Deferred Compensation Account until deducted from amounts paid to
the Participant. 

6.8   

Emergency
      Benefit .  In the event that the Administrative Committee,
      upon written petition of the Participant, determines in its sole
      discretion, that the Participant has suffered an unforeseeable financial
      emergency, the Employer shall pay to the Participant, as soon as
      practicable following such determination, an amount necessary to meet the
      emergency not in excess of the Termination Benefit to which the
      Participant would have been entitled pursuant to Section 6.3 if he had a
      termination of service on the date of such determination (the  Emergency
      Benefit ).  For purposes of this Plan, an unforeseeable
      financial emergency is an unexpected need for cash arising from an
      illness, casualty loss, sudden financial reversal, or other such
      unforeseeable occurrence. Cash needs arising
  from 

foreseeable
events such as the purchase of a house or education expenses for children shall
not be considered to be the result of an unforeseeable financial emergency. The
amount of the benefit otherwise payable under Sections 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5,
6.6 or 6.7 shall thereafter be actuarially adjusted to reflect the early payment
of the Emergency Benefit. 

6.9 

Withholding;
      Unemployment Taxes .  To the extent required by the law in
      effect at the time payments are made, the Employer shall withhold from
      payments made hereunder the minimum taxes required to be withheld by the
      federal or any state or local
government. 

6.10 

Commencement of
      Payments .  Except as otherwise provided in this Plan,
      commencement of payments under this Plan shall begin sixty (60) days
      following the event which entitles a Participant (or a Beneficiary) to
      payments under the Plan, or at such earlier date as may be determined by
      the Administrative Committee. 

6.11 

Change in
      Status .  In the event of a change in the employment
      status of a Participant to a status in which he is no longer an eligible
      employee under this Plan, but is an eligible employee under the Management
      Deferred Compensation Plan or another similar deferred compensation plan
      of the Employer, the Participant and all of his Units of Participation
      under this Plan shall automatically be transferred to such other deferred
      compensation plan for which he is then an eligible employee, unless
      otherwise determined by the Administrative Committee.  In the
      event of any such transfer, the provisions of the other deferred
      compensation plan to which the Participant transfers shall thereafter
      determine the rights and benefits of the Participant with respect to all
      of his Units of Participation, unless otherwise determined by the
      Administrative Committee. The Employer may, but shall not be required to,
      enter into revised Agreements with the Participant to carry out the
      provisions of this Section. 

6.12 

Transfer to
      RWAC .  Effective August 1, 1990, if a Participant
      transfers to a RWAC prior to completion of a Unit of Participation,
      deferrals which would otherwise have been made by the Participant in
      accordance with Section 5.2 shall continue to be made by the Employer
      until the Participant resumes employment with the Employer but for a
      maximum period not to exceed 5 years.  Contributions which would
      have been made by the Employer in accordance with Section 5.3 shall also
      continue to be made by the Employer during such period as Participant
      contributions are continued in accordance with the preceding
      sentence.  Benefits applicable during the period of employment
      at a RWAC (not to exceed 5 years) and the methods used for crediting the
      Deferred Compensation Account and repaying amounts contributed by the
      Employer and reducing the Normal Retirement or Early Retirement Benefit
      paid to the Participant or his Beneficiary shall be the same as those
      applicable pursuant to Section 6.7 in the case of Disability, i.e.,
      employment at a RWAC shall be deemed a Disability for the purpose of
      making determinations pursuant to Section 6.7.  If the
      Participant has not resumed employment with the Employer or has not
      completed a Unit of Participation as result of Employer Contributions
      within 5 years from date of transfer, a Termination Benefit based on the
      amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account at the
      date of transfer shall be paid upon termination of employment with a RWAC
      or the expiration of such 5 year period whichever is
    earlier. 

6.13 

Leave of
      Absence .  Effective January 1, 1985, if a Participant
      absents himself from employment on a formally granted leave of absence
      (i.e., the absence is with formal permission in order to prevent a break
      in the continuity of the Employee's term of employment which permission is
      granted in conformity with the rules of the Employer which employs the
      individual, as adopted from time to time) prior to completion of a Unit of
      Participation, deferrals which would otherwise have been made by the
      Participant in accordance with Section 5.2 shall continue to be made by
      the Employer until the Participant resumes employment with the Employer
      but for a maximum period not to exceed 6 months.  Contributions
      which would have been made by the Employer in accordance with
      Section 5.3 shall also continue to be made by the Employer during
      such period as Participant contributions are continued in accordance with
      the preceding sentence. 

Benefits
applicable during the leave of absence (not to exceed 6 months) and the methods
used for crediting the Deferred Compensation Account and repaying amounts
contributed by the Employer and reducing the Normal Retirement or Early
Retirement Benefit paid to the Participant or his Beneficiary shall be the same
as those applicable pursuant to Section 6.7 in the case of Disability, i.e., the
leave of absence shall be deemed a Disability for the purpose of making
determination pursuant to Section 6.7, except in the case of a political leave
(i.e., to campaign for or serve when elected to political office, to serve if
appointed to public office or for non-candidate employees to participate in
campaigns of candidates for political office) the only benefit payable if the
Participant dies during such leave shall be a Termination Benefit based on the
amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account on the date
of commencement of the leave which shall be payable to the Participant's
Beneficiary.  If the Participant has not resumed employment with the
Employer within 6 months from the commencement of the leave of absence, a
Termination Benefit based on the amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred
Compensation Account at the commencement of the leave of absence shall be paid
to the Participant. 

Section
6.7 of this Plan and not this Section 6.13 shall apply with respect to any
period during which a Participant is suffering a Disability and such period of
Disability shall not be included under this Section 6.13 as a portion of a
period of leave of absence. 

6.14 

Ineligible
      Participant .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of
      this Plan to the contrary, if any Participant is determined not to be a
       management or highly compensated employee  within the meaning of the
      Employee Retirement Income Security act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) or
      Regulations thereunder, such Participant will not be eligible to
      participate in this Plan and shall receive an immediate lump sum payment
      equal to the vested portion of the amounts standing credited to his
      Deferred Compensation Accounts with interest on the balance compounded at
      an eight percent (8%) annual rate. Upon such payment no survivor benefit
      or other benefit shall thereafter by payable under this Plan either to the
      Participant or any Beneficiary of the Participant, except as provided
      under Section 6.5. 

Section
      7 

Beneficiary
      Designation .  Each Participant shall have the right, at
      any time, to designate any person or persons as his Beneficiary or
      Beneficiaries (both primary as well as contingent) to whom payment under
      this Plan shall be made in the event of his death prior to complete
      distribution to Participant of the benefits due him under the
      Plan.  Each Beneficiary designation shall become effective only
      when filed in writing  with
      the Administrative Committee during the Participant's lifetime on a form
      prescribed by the Administrative Committee with written acknowledgment of
      receipt.  

The
filing of a new Beneficiary designation form will cancel all Beneficiary
designations previously filed. The spouse of a married Participant domiciled in
a community property jurisdiction shall join in any designation of Beneficiary
or Beneficiaries other than the spouse. 

If a
Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all
designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or die prior to complete
distribution of the Participant's benefits, then the Administrative Committee
shall direct the distribution of such benefits to the Participant's
estate. 

Section
      8 

Termination,
      Amendment . 

8.1 

Employer s Right to
      Terminate Plan .  The Board may at any time terminate the
      Plan. Termination of the Plan shall mean that (1) Base Salary shall
      prospectively cease to be deferred with respect to all Units of
      Participation for the then Plan Year and thereafter; and (2) all then
      currently existing Units of Participation shall be treated as
      follows: 

The
Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be 100% vested. The
Participant shall receive or continue to receive all benefits under this Plan at
such time as provided in and pursuant to the terms and conditions of his
Agreement(s) and as described in this Plan, provided however, any benefits
payable under a Unit of Participation that is not completed due to a termination
of the Plan under this Section 8.1 shall be prorated based upon the amount in
the Deferred Compensation Account for that Unit of Participation as of said Plan
termination divided by the Total Unit Deferral amount for that Unit of
Participation. 

8.2 

Amendment .  The
      Board may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part, provided
      however, that no amendment, including an amendment to this Section 8,
      shall be effective, without the written consent of a Participant, to
      alter, to the detriment of such Participant, the benefits described in
      this Plan as applicable to a Unit of Participation of the Participant or
      to decrease amounts standing credited to such Participant's Deferred
      Compensation Accounts under the Plan.  For purposes of this
      Section 8.2, an alteration to the detriment of a Participant shall mean a
      reduction in the period of time over which benefits are payable under a
      Participant's Agreement, subject however to the pro-ration provisions of
      Section 8.1 hereof, or any change in the form of benefits payable to a
      Participant under the Participant's Agreement. Written notice of any
      amendment shall be given to each
Participant. 

Section
      9 

Miscellaneous . 

9.1 

Unsecured General
      Creditor .  Participants and their Beneficiaries, heirs,
      successors, and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights, interest,
      or claims in any property or assets of Employer, nor shall they be
      Beneficiaries of, or have any rights, claims, or interests in any life
      insurance policies, annuity contracts, or the proceeds therefrom owned or
      which may be acquired by Employer ( Policies ).  Any such
      Policies or other assets of Employer shall not be held under any trust for
      the benefit of Participants, their Beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or
      assigns, or held in any way as collateral security for the fulfilling of
      the obligations of Employer under this Plan.  Any and all of the
      Employer's assets and Policies shall be, and remain, the general,
      unpledged, unrestricted assets of Employer. Employer's obligation under
      the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of
      Employer to pay money in the
future. 

9.2 

Trust
      Fund .  The Employer shall be responsible for the payment
      of all benefits provided under the Plan. At its discretion, the Company
      may establish one or more trusts, for the purpose of providing for the
      payment of such benefits.  Such trust or trusts may be
      irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the
      Employer's creditors.  To the extent any benefits provided under
      the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, the Employer shall have no
      further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid,
      such benefits shall remain the obligation of and shall be paid by, the
      Employer. 

9.3 

Obligations to
      Employer .  If a Participant becomes entitled to a
      distribution of benefits under the Plan, the Employer may offset against
      the amount of benefits otherwise distributable any claims to reimbursement
      for intentional wrongdoing by the Participant against the Employer or an
      affiliate.  Such determination shall be made by the
      Administrative Committee. 

9.4   

Nonassignability .  Neither
      a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell,
      assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber,
      transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts,
      if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights
      to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and
      non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior
      to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment
      of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a
      Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law
      in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or
      insolvency. 

9.5 

Employment Not
      Guaranteed .  Nothing contained in this Plan nor any
      action taken hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or
      as giving any Employee any right to be retained in the employ of the
      Employer or to serve as a director. 

9.6 

Protective
      Provisions .  A Participant will cooperate with the
      Employer by furnishing any and all information requested by the Employer,
      in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, taking such
      physical examinations as the Employer may deem necessary and taking such
      other relevant action as may be requested by the Employer.  If a
      Participant refuses so to cooperate, the Employer shall have no further
      obligation to the Participant under the Plan.  If a Participant
      commits suicide during the two-year period beginning on the Unit Start
      Date for a given Unit of Participation or if the Participant makes any
      material misstatement of information or non-disclosure of medical history,
      then no benefits will be payable with respect to that Unit of
      Participation to such Participant or his Beneficiary, or in the Employer's
      sole discretion, benefits may be payable in a reduced
    amount. 

9.7 

Gender, Singular and
      Plural .  All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be
      deemed to refer to the masculine or feminine, as the identity of the
      person or persons may require. As the context may require, the singular
      may be read as the plural and the plural as the
  singular. 

9.8 

Waiver of
      Benefits .  No benefit shall be payable under the
      provisions of this Plan with respect to any Participant who is or was a
      member of a group of employees designated by an Employer as eligible to
      waive such benefit if such Participant has waived such benefit under this
      Plan unless the Employer by which such Participant is or was last employed
      has authorized the revocation of such waiver and such Participant has
      revoked such waiver. 

9.9 

Captions .  The
      captions of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of this Plan are for
      convenience only and shall not control nor affect the meaning or
      construction of any of its
provisions. 

9.10 

Applicable
      Law .  This Plan shall be governed and construed in
      accordance with the laws of the State of
  Missouri. 

9.11 

Validity .  In
      the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void, or
      unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the
      validity of any other provision of this
Plan. 

9.12 

Notice .  Any
      notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Committee under
      the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by
      registered or certified mail, to the principal office of the Employer,
      directed to the attention of the Vice President-Human Resources of the
      Employer.  Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of
      delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the
      postmark on the receipt for registration or
  certification. 

9.13 

Termination With
      Retirement Eligibility/Involuntary
      Termination .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the
      Plan, if after November 17, 1995, a Participant s employment terminates
      before the Participant attains age fifty-five, and if such termination is
      involuntary (which shall be deemed to include termination by reason of
      death), and is for a reason other than for cause (i.e., willful and gross
      misconduct on the part of the Participant that is materially and
      demonstrably detrimental to the Company or any entity in which the Company
      has at least a 50% ownership interest), and is on or after the date
      Participant is within five years of being pension eligible, i.e., would be
      within five years of being eligible to retire with a service pension under
      the rules for service pension eligibility as in effect under the SBC
      Pension Benefit Plan, and/or is a Senior Manager within five years of
      being eligible to retire with an immediate pension based on the
      eligibility rules of the SBC Senior Management Supplemental Retirement
      Income Plan, whether or not actually a participant in either such plan,
      then the provisions of this Section 9.13 shall govern and control with
      respect to the distribution of the Plan s benefits if the benefits offered
      by this Section 9.13 are elected.  In such case, the
      Participant, or the Participant s Beneficiary(ies) if the Participant s
      employment terminates by reason of the Participant s death, may
      irrevocably elect in writing, in a Waiver Agreement, as described below,
      filed with the Company, to waive the Termination Benefit or the
      Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit, as applicable, with respect to any or all
      Units of Participation, and in lieu of said Benefit for any such Unit,
      receive an  Alternative Termination
Benefit.  

Such
Alternative Termination Benefit for a Unit shall be the Unit as described in the
Participant s Agreement, provided in accordance with and governed in all
respects by the terms of the Plan and said Agreement, except that the Plan and
Agreement shall be applied with respect to such Unit  as   if  the Participant
had remained in employment and retired upon or after attaining age fifty-five,
regardless of Participant s actual termination date.  For purposes of
applying the Plan and the Agreement, Normal Retirement shall be the
Participant s sixty-fifth birthday and Early Retirement shall be the date
specified by the Participant as Participant s Early Retirement date, which date
shall be specified at the time the Waiver Agreement, as described below, is
filed with the Company, and which date may be no earlier than Participant s
fifty-fifth birthday.  In the event of Participant s death prior to
age fifty-five, the Alternative Termination Benefit for a Unit, whether such
Benefit was elected by the Participant or Participant s Beneficiary(ies), shall
be determined, as described below, by applying the Plan and Agreement with
respect to such Unit  as   if  the Participant
had died upon reaching age fifty-five. 

Accordingly,
notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, for purposes of application of
this Section 9.13, in the event a Participant elects an Alternative Termination
Benefit in lieu of the Termination Benefit for a Unit, or a Beneficiary(ies)
elects to receive an Alternative Termination Benefit in lieu of a Pre-Retirement
Survivor Benefit for a Unit, survivor benefits for such Unit shall be determined
as follows:  (a)  If Participant dies on or after the date
specified by Participant as Participant s Early Retirement date, Participant s
Beneficiary(ies) shall receive the remaining installments of Participant s
retirement benefit; or (b)  If Participant dies on or after age
fifty-five but prior to the date specified by Participant as Participant s Early
Retirement date, Participant s Beneficiary(ies) will receive survivor benefits
in accordance with the next to the last paragraph in Section 6.2, i.e., the
provision of the Plan that would have applied had Participant s death actually
been an in service death which occurred upon or after attainment of age
fifty-five; or (c)  If Participant s death occurs prior to age
fifty-five, Participant s Beneficiary(ies) will receive at such time as
Participant would have attained age fifty-five, survivor benefits in accordance
with the next to the last paragraph in Section 6.2, i.e., the provision of the
Plan that would have applied had Participant s death actually been an in service
death which occurred upon attainment of age fifty-five; and
(d)  Finally, the benefit described in Section 6.6 shall apply
commencing on the later of the sixteenth year after commencement of payments
pursuant to the Alternative Termination Benefit or the first of the month
following Participant s death. 

For
purposes of computing the Vested Benefits (as such term is used in rabbi trusts
( Trusts ) established by the Company for the purpose of providing for the
payment of benefits under the Plan) corresponding to an Alternative Termination
Benefit, for all Trust purposes, including for purposes of determining the Trust
funding level applicable for such Alternative Termination Benefit, the
Participant shall be treated for each such Alternative Termination Benefit Unit
as if continuing in employment until age fifty-five if the Participant dies
before attaining age fifty-five or until the date of Participant s death if
Participant dies after attaining age fifty-five or until reaching the
Participant s Early Retirement date for such Unit as selected by the Participant
if Participant survives until such date, i.e., the Trust funding for any such
Unit and the security afforded. 
 
      Participant
or Participant s Beneficiary(ies) thereby shall be no different as a result of
this Section 9.13 than they would have been had Participant continued in
employment in the absence of this Section 9.13 and lived until at least age
fifty-five. 

Waiver of
a Termination Benefit with respect to a Unit by a Participant, or of a
Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit with respect to a Unit by a Beneficiary(ies),
and in either case, receipt of an Alternative Termination Benefit in lieu
thereof, shall be conditioned upon the agreement in writing by the Participant,
or Participant s Beneficiary(ies), as applicable, at the time of Participant s
termination of employment, to provisions substantially as attached. 

9.14 

Termination Under
      EPR .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan,
      if a Participant s employment terminates before the Participant attains
      age fifty-five, and if such termination is as an EPR Terminee under the
      Enhanced Pension and Retirement Program ("EPR") of the SBC Pension Benefit
      Plan-Nonbargained Program ("SBC PBP") or as a Deceased Electing Employee
      under EPR and is on or after the date Participant is within five years of
      being pension eligible, i.e., would be within five years of being eligible
      to retire with a service pension under the rules for service pension
      eligibility as in effect under the SBC PBP, and/or is a Senior Manager
      within five years of being eligible to retire with an immediate pension
      based on the eligibility rules of the SBC  Supplemental
      Retirement Income Plan, whether or not actually a participant in either
      such plan, or a Participant who is age 55 or over terminates employment
      under EPR, then the provisions of this Section 9.14 shall govern and
      control with respect to the distribution of the Plan s benefits if the
      benefits offered by this Section 9.14 are elected.  In such
      case, the Participant, or the Participant s Beneficiary(ies) if the
      Participant s employment terminates by reason of the Participant s death,
      may irrevocably elect in writing, in an EPR special election form
      accompanied by a Waiver Agreement, as described below, filed with the
      Company, to waive the Termination Benefit or the Pre-Retirement Survivor
      Benefit or the Early Retirement Benefit, as applicable, with respect to
      any or all Units of Participation, and in lieu of said Benefit for any
      such Unit, receive an  EPR Alternative Termination
    Benefit.  

Such an
EPR Alternative Termination Benefit for a Unit shall be the Unit as described in
the Participant s Agreement, provided in accordance with and governed in all
respects by the terms of the Plan and said Agreement, except that the Plan and
Agreement shall be applied with respect to such Unit, in accordance with
Participant's special EPR election form applicable to such Unit,  as   if  the Participant
had remained in employment and retired upon the Participant's Early Retirement
Date specified in his EPR special election form applicable to such Unit of
Participation, regardless of Participant s actual termination
date.  For purposes of applying the Plan and the Agreement, Normal
Retirement shall be the Participant s sixty-fifth birthday and Early Retirement
shall be the date specified by the Participant as Participant s Early Retirement
date, which date shall be specified at the time the Waiver Agreement, as
described below, is filed with the Company, and which date may be no earlier
than Participant s fifty-fifth birthday.  In the event of
Participant s death prior to age fifty-five, the EPR Alternative Termination
Benefit for a Unit, whether such Benefit was elected by the Participant or
Participant s Beneficiary(ies), shall be determined, as described below, by
applying the Plan and Agreement with respect to such Unit  as   if  the Participant
had died upon or after reaching age fifty-five. 

Accordingly,
notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, for purposes of application of
this Section 9.14, in the event a Participant elects an EPR Alternative
Termination Benefit in lieu of the Termination Benefit or the Early Retirement
Benefit for a Unit, or a Beneficiary(ies) elects to receive an EPR Alternative
Termination Benefit in lieu of a Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit for a Unit, as
applicable, survivor benefits for such Unit shall be determined as
follows:  (a) If Participant dies on or after the date specified by
Participant as Participant s Early Retirement date, Participant s
Beneficiary(ies) shall receive the remaining installments of Participant s
retirement benefit; or (b)  If Participant dies on or after age
fifty-five but prior to the date specified by Participant as Participant s Early
Retirement date, Participant s Beneficiary(ies) will receive survivor benefits
in accordance with the next to the last paragraph in Section 6.2, i.e., the
provision of the Plan that would have applied had Participant s death actually
been an in service death which occurred upon or after attainment of age
fifty-five; or (c)  If Participant s death occurs prior to age
fifty-five, Participant s Beneficiary(ies) will receive at such time as
Participant would have attained age fifty-five, survivor benefits in accordance
with the next to the last paragraph in Section 6.2, i.e., the provision of the
Plan that would have applied had Participant s death actually been an in service
death which occurred upon attainment of age fifty-five; and
(d)  Finally, the benefit described in Section 6.6 shall apply
commencing on the later of the sixteenth year after commencement of payments
pursuant to the EPR Alternative Termination Benefit or the first of the month
following Participant s death. 

For
purposes of computing the Vested Benefits (as such term is used in rabbi trusts
( Trusts ) established by the Company for the purpose of providing for the
payment of benefits under the Plan) corresponding to an EPR Alternative
Termination Benefit, for all Trust purposes, including for purposes of
determining the Trust funding level applicable for such EPR Alternative
Termination Benefit, the Participant shall be treated for each such EPR
Alternative Termination Benefit Unit as if continuing in employment until age
fifty-five if the Participant dies before attaining age fifty-five or until the
date of Participant s death if Participant dies after attaining age fifty-five
or until reaching the Participant s Early Retirement date for such Unit as
selected by the Participant if Participant survives until such date, i.e., the
Trust funding for any such Unit and the security afforded Participant or
Participant s Beneficiary(ies) thereby shall be no different as a result of this
Section 9.14 than they would have been had Participant continued in employment
in the absence of this Section 9.14 and lived until at least age
fifty-five. 

Waiver of
a Termination Benefit or Early Retirement Benefit with respect to a Unit by a
Participant, or of a Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit with respect to a Unit by a
Beneficiary(ies), as applicable, and receipt of an EPR Alternative Termination
Benefit in lieu thereof, shall be conditioned upon the agreement in writing by
the Participant, or Participant s Beneficiary(ies), as applicable, at the time
of Participant s termination of employment, to provisions substantially as
provided in Exhibit C, hereto. 

SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC. 

      SENIOR
MANAGEMENT 

      DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN AGREEMENT 

THIS
AGREEMENT is made and entered into at St. Louis, Missouri as of the 31st day of
December, 1983, by and between SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC. ( Company ), and
____________________ ( Senior Manager ). 

WHEREAS,
the Company has adopted a Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan (the
 Plan  and 

WHEREAS,
the Senior Manager has been determined to be eligible to participate in the
Plan; and 

WHEREAS,
the Plan requires that an agreement be entered into between the Company and the
Senior Manager setting out certain terms and benefits of the Plan as they apply
to the Senior Manager; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, the Company and the Senior Manager hereby agree as
follows: 

1. 

The
      Plan is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement, as
      though set forth in full herein.  The parties shall be bound by,
      and have the benefit of, each and every provision of the Plan, including
      without limitation the restrictions on assignability set forth in the
      Plan. 

2. 

The
      Senior Manager was born on
  ________________________. 

3. 

The
      Senior Manager's basic allotment percentage in the SBC Communications Inc.
      Savings Plan for Salaried Employees is ____ percent (__%) of his
      Compensation.  Any subsequent change in this level of
      participation by the Senior Manager will void this Agreement and require
      that a new Agreement be entered into between the Employer and the Senior
      Manager. 

4. 

The
      Senior Manager's Compensation during a calendar year shall be reduced in
      accordance with Exhibit A attached to this
  Agreement. 

5. 

The
      amount per month of Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit in accordance with
      Section 6.4 of the Plan is $__________, payable for the greater of ten
      (10) years or the number of years from the date of Participant's death
      until he would have been age
65. 

6. 

The
      amount per month of Standard Retirement Benefit in accordance with Section
      6.1 of the Plan is $__________, payable for a period of 180 months
      commencing the first day of the month following Participant's 65th
      birthday. 

7. 

Upon
      Normal or Early Retirement, the Participant hereby elects: (please initial
      (a), (b) or (c)) 

(a) 

______ 

To
      receive a Standard Retirement Benefit, payable for a period of one hundred
      eighty (180) months. 

(b) 

______ 

To
      receive an Alternative Retirement Benefit to be paid in accordance with
      one of the following payment modes: (please initial one of the
      following:) 

(i) 

_____ 

In
      a lump sum payment. 

(ii) 

_____ 

In
      equal monthly installments for a period of sixty (60)
    months. 

(iii) 

_____ 

In
      equal monthly installments for a period of one hundred twenty (120)
      months. 

(c) 

______ 

The
      Participant elects to defer the making of an election as to whether to
      receive a Standard Retirement Benefit or an Alternative Retirement Benefit
      until no later than the last day of the calendar year preceding the
      calendar year in which Normal or Early Retirement takes
    place. 

8. 

The
      Participant hereby elects to receive any Early Retirement Benefit as
      follows (please initial one of the
following): 

(b) 

______ 

Commencing
      at Early Retirement. 

(c) 

______ 

The
      Participant elects to defer the making of an election as to the time of
      commencement of Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit until no later
      than the last day of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in
      which the Participant's Early Retirement takes
  place. 

9. 

This
      Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company,
      its successors and assigns, and the Senior Manager and his
      Beneficiaries. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have signed and entered into this Agreement
on and as of the date first above written. 

THE
COMPANY:                               By
______________________________________ 

      Its
Senior Vice President-Human Resources 

SENIOR
MANAGER 

_________________________                                                                                               ____________ 

        Signature                                                                Date 

Exhibit
A 

SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC. 

      SENIOR
MANAGEMENT 

      DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN AGREEMENT 

19____
Unit of Participation 

Unit
Start Date: ________________, 19____  Unit Deferral Period: ____
Months 

Annual Amount (1) 

         Year                                                                                                 Deferred  

      1.           Unit
Start Date: 

        1984           (commencing
the first day 

of
      the month of ________) 

$_____________ 

2.       1985                                                                                               _____________ 

      3.       1986                                                                                               _____________ 

      4.       1987                                                                                               _____________ 

      5.       1988                                                                                               _____________ 

      6.       1989                                                                                               _____________ 

      7.       1990                                                                                               _____________ 

      8.       1991                                                                                               _____________ 

      9.       1992           (ending
the last day of 

         the month of
__________)                                  
             _____________ 

Total Unit 

        Deferral
Amount    $   _____________ 

________________________________________________________________________ 

      (1)           This
amount will be deferred in equal amounts on a monthly basis. 

Exhibit
C 

AGREEMENT
AND RELEASE OF CLAIMS- MANAGER RETIRING UNDER THE 

      ENHANCED
PENSION AND RETIREMENT PROGRAM ("EPR") 

      WITH AN
8-YEAR UNIT UNDER THE 

      MANAGEMENT
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN ("PLAN") 

In
consideration for treatment under the EPR provisions of the Plan, Participant
agrees as follows: 

1.           Participant
agrees that Participant shall not, without the written consent of Participant's
SBC Communications Inc. ("SBC") employing company ("Company"), and while
employed by the Company or within three (3) years after termination of
employment from Company, engage in competition with SBC or any Subsidiary
thereof or with any business with which a Subsidiary of SBC or an affiliated
company has a substantial interest (collectively referred to herein as "Employer
business").  For purposes of this Agreement, engaging in competition
with any Employer business shall mean engaging by Participant in any business or
activity in the same geographical market where the same or substantially similar
business or activity is being carried on as an Employer
business.  Such term shall not include owning a nonsubstantial
publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that competes with an
Employer business.  However, it is hereby specifically agreed that
engaging in competition with an Employer business shall include representing or
providing consulting services to, or being an employee of, any person or entity
that is engaged in competition with any Employer business or that takes a
position adverse to any Employer business in a judicial, regulatory, legislative
or administrative proceeding and Participant hereby specifically agrees not to
engage in any such conduct.  Participant also specifically agrees that
a breach of this provision would result if, within the time period and without
the written consent specified, Participant either engages directly in
competitive activity or in any capacity in any location becomes employed by,
associated with, or renders service to any company, or parent or affiliate
thereof, or any Subsidiary of any of them, if any of them is engaged in
competition with an Employer business, regardless of the position or duties the
Participant takes and regardless of whether or not the employing company, or the
company that Participant becomes associated with or renders service to, is
itself engaged in direct competition with an Employer business. 

Participant may submit a description of
proposed employment in writing to Company and Company shall advise Participant
in writing within ten business days whether such proposed employment would
constitute engaging in competition with an Employer business. 

2.           Participant
acknowledges that, as a result of Participant's employment by the Company,
Participant had and continued to have until Participant's termination, access to
trade secrets, intellectual property, proprietary information, and private
non-public information including technological, legal, financial, marketing,
personnel and other information (including this Agreement and the Release of
Claims contained herein) relating to litigation, the business and contemplated
business of the Company and SBC and other matters, all of which is confidential
and proprietary to SBC and the Company ("Confidential Information"); and
Participant agrees that Participant did not before and will not after
Participant's termination, divulge or in any way make available to others
through public statements, voluntary testimony, or otherwise, or make use of,
alone or in concert with others, any Confidential Information.  The
aforesaid obligations regarding Confidential Information will not apply to
information that is now in or hereafter enters the public domain without a
breach of this Agreement and the Release of Claims contained herein, nor shall
they apply to information required to be delivered pursuant to a subpoena or
similar legislative, judicial or administrative requirement; provided, however,
Participant will notify the Company upon receipt of any such subpoena or similar
request, and give the Company a reasonable opportunity to contest or otherwise
oppose the subpoena or similar request. 

Participant
may represent himself or herself as a retiree of Company (if Participant is
actually Service Pension eligible) or as a former employee who voluntarily
terminated employment for a reason other than cause (if Participant is not
actually Service Pension eligible); but otherwise Participant agrees that
Participant will not make, nor cause to be made any public statements,
disclosures or publications which relate in any way, directly or indirectly to
Participant's cessation of employment with the Company without prior written
approval by the Company. Participant also agrees that Participant will not make,
nor cause to be made any public statements, disclosures or publications which
portray unfavorably, reflect adversely on, or are derogatory or inimical to the
best interests of, the Company, SBC, their Subsidiaries, directors, officers,
employees and agents, past, present or future. 

3.           Participant
agrees that during the three (3) year period immediately after termination of
Participant's employment with Company, Participant will not solicit any customer
of any SBC company on behalf of Participant or any other person or entity or
solicit any employee of any SBC company to seek or accept employment with any
other person or entity, or disclose confidential information about such employee
to any prospective employer or employer other than an SBC
company.  Participant acknowledges that even an unsuccessful
solicitation of an employee of any SBC company will negatively impact the
morale, commitment and performance of the employee in
question.  Participant further acknowledges that any solicitation of
either a customer or an employee of any SBC company will result in immediate and
irreparable harm to the SBC company, for which there will be no adequate remedy
at law, and that the SBC company will be entitled to equitable relief to
restrain Participant from violating the terms of this Paragraph 3, in addition
to any other remedies available to the SBC Company.  In any action
brought by any SBC company to enforce the provisions of this Paragraph 3, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs, including, but not limited
to, reasonable and actual attorneys' fees. 

4.           Participant
shall forfeit Participant's Alternative Termination Benefit(s) under the EPR
provisions of the Plan, for any breach by Participant of the provisions of
Paragraph 1 hereof, or of Paragraph 2 hereof (except to the extent disclosure of
any Confidential Information is specifically required by law), or of Paragraph 3
hereof, or of the Release of Claims contained herein. In the event of any such
forfeiture of any Alternative Termination Benefit(s), Participant shall receive
the Termination Benefit corresponding to such Unit of Participation pursuant to
the Plan, that would have been paid in the absence of this Agreement, less any
amounts previously paid to Participant as part of the corresponding Alternative
Termination Benefit. 

5.           Company
hereby expressly advises Participant to seek personal legal advice prior to
executing this Agreement and the Release of Claims contained herein and
Participant by Participant's signature below, hereby expressly acknowledges that
Participant was given at least forty-five (45) days in which to seek such advice
and decide whether or not to enter into this Agreement and the Release of Claims
contained herein.  The parties agree that any changes to this
Agreement or to the Release of Claims contained herein made after the initial
draft of this Agreement and Release of Claims is presented to Participant,
whether material or immaterial, do not restart the running of said forty-five
(45) day period. 

6.           Participant
may revoke this Agreement and the Release of Claims contained herein within
seven (7) days of Participant's execution of this Agreement and the Release of
Claims contained herein by giving notice, in writing, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the Company c/o the Executive Compensation Group, 175 East
Houston Street, Room 3-J-4, San Antonio, Texas, 78205.  Proof of such
mailing within said seven (7) day period shall suffice to establish revocation
pursuant to this Paragraph. In the event of any such revocation, this entire
Agreement and the Release of Claims contained herein shall be null and
void. 

7.           Participant
agrees that for any breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of this
Agreement and the Release of Claims contained herein by Participant, the Company
shall have no adequate legal remedy, and in addition to any other remedies
available, a restraining order and/or an injunction may be issued against
Participant to prevent or restrain any such breach, in addition to any other
rights the Company may have. 

8.           In
the event any provision of this Agreement or the Release of Claims contained
herein is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same shall not affect in any
respect whatsoever the validity of any other provision of this Agreement or said
Release of Claims, except that should said Release of Claims be held to be
invalid as applicable to and as asserted by Participant with regard to any claim
or dispute covered thereunder, or should any part of the provisions of
Paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of this Agreement be held invalid, void or unenforceable as
applicable to and as asserted by Participant, this Agreement and the Release of
Claims contained herein, at the Company's option, may be declared by the Company
null and void. If this Agreement and the Release of Claims contained herein are
declared null and void by Company pursuant to the provisions of this Paragraph,
Participant shall return to Company all consideration previously received
pursuant to this Agreement and the Release of Claims contained herein less any
of said consideration Participant would have received in the absence of entering
into this Agreement and the Release of Claims contained herein. 

RELEASE OF
CLAIMS  

Participant
hereby fully waives and forever releases and discharges Company, SBC, any and
all other Subsidiaries of Company and of SBC, their officers, directors, agents,
servants, employees, successors and assigns and any and all employee benefit
plans maintained by SBC or any Subsidiary thereof and/or any and all fiduciaries
of any such plan from any and all common law and/or statutory claims, causes of
action or suits of any kind whatsoever arising from or in connection with
Participant's past employment by Company and/or Participant's separation
therefrom, including but not limited to claims, actions, causes of action or
suits of any kind allegedly arising under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (ERISA), as amended, 29 USC    1001 et seq.; the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973, as amended, 29 USC    701 et seq.; the Civil Rights Acts of 1866 and
1870, as amended, 42 USC    1981, 1982 and 1988; the Civil Rights Act of 1871,
as amended, 42 USC    1983 and 1985; the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended,
42 USC   2000d et seq.; the Americans With Disabilities Act, as amended, 42 USC
   12101 et seq., and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA),
as amended, 29 USC    621 et seq., known and unknown.  In addition,
Participant agrees not to file any lawsuits or other claims seeking monetary
damage or other relief in any state or federal court or with any administrative
agency against any of the aforementioned parties in connection with or relating
to any of the aforementioned matters.  Provided, however, by executing
this Release of Claims, Participant does not waive rights or claims that may
arise after the date of execution. Provided further, however, this Release of
Claims shall not affect Participant's right to receive or enforce through
litigation, any indemnification rights to which Participant is entitled as a
result of Participant's past employment by the Company.  And, provided
further, except as agreed herein, this Agreement and Release of Claims shall not
affect the ordinary distribution of benefits/entitlements, if any, to which
Participant is entitled upon termination from Company; it being understood by
Participant that said benefits/entitlements, if any, will be subject to and
provided in accordance with the terms and conditions of their respective
governing plan. 

Participant
(Signature) 

Participant
(Print name) 

Participant
SSN 

Date 

</EX-10.D>

<EX-10.E>
 8
 ex10e.htm
 SR MGMT DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM OF 1988

ex10e.htm 

Exhibit
10-e

SENIOR
MANAGEMENT 

        DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN 

        OF
1988 

(4 Year
Units) 

Effective
For Units of Participation 

      Having A
Unit Start Date Of 

      January
1, 1988 Or Later And 

      Prior To
January 1, 1991 

Effective:
January 1, 1988 

      As
amended through April 1, 2002 

SENIOR
MANAGEMENT 

DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN OF 1988 

Section
      1 

Statement of
      Purpose .  The purpose of the Senior Management Deferred
      Compensation Plan of 1988 is to provide retirement, death, or
      termination-of-employment benefits to a select group of management
      employees consisting of Eligible Employees of SBC Communications Inc. (the
       Company ) and its Subsidiaries ( Participating
    Companies ). 

Section
      2 

Definitions .  For
      the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the
      meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates
      otherwise. 

1.           Administrative
Committee.   Administrative Committee  means a committee of three or
more members, at least one of whom is a Senior Manager, who shall be designated
by the Vice President-Human Resources to administer the Plan pursuant to Section
3. 

2.           Agreement.   Agreement 
means the written agreement entitled  Senior Management Deferred Compensation
Plan of 1988 Agreement  (substantially in the form attached to this Plan) that
shall be entered into by the Employer and a Participant with respect to each
Unit of Participation to carry out the Plan with respect to such
Participant. 

3.           Annualized
Total Unit Deferral Amount.  The  Annualized Total Unit Deferral
Amount  means the Total Unit Deferral Amount divided by four. 

4.         Base
Salary.   Base Salary  means the Participant's annual base salary
before reduction pursuant to this Plan or any plan of the Employer whereby
compensation is deferred, including but not limited to a plan whereby
compensation is deferred in accordance with Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code. 

5.           Beneficiary.   Beneficiary 
means the person or persons designated as such in accordance with Section
9. 

6.           Board.   Board 
means the Board of Directors of SBC Communications Inc. 

7.           Compensation.   Compensation 
means the Participant's monthly Base Salary plus any other compensation that is
normally matched in the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried
Employees before reduction for compensation deferred pursuant to this Plan or
any plan of the Employer whereby compensation is deferred, including but not
limited to a plan whereby compensation is deferred in accordance with Section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. 

8.           Declared
Rate.   Declared Rate  means with respect to any Plan Year the
interest rate which will be credited during such Plan Year on a Participant's
Deferred Compensation Accounts for Units of Participation which have not yet
commenced benefit payments.  The Declared Rate for each Plan Year will
be determined by the Administrative Committee, in its complete and sole
discretion, and will be announced on or before January 1 of the applicable Plan
Year; provided that in no event will the Declared Rate for any Plan Year be less
than the Moody's Corporate Bond Yield Average-Monthly Average Corporates as
published by Moody's Investor's Service, Inc. (or any successor thereto) for the
month of September before the Plan Year in question, or, if such yield is no
longer published, a substantially similar average selected by the Administrative
Committee. 

9.           Deferral
Amount.   Deferral Amount  means an amount of Base Salary deferred
with respect to a Unit of Participation under this Plan. 

10.           Deferred
Compensation Account.   Deferred Compensation Account  means the
account maintained on the books of account of the Employer for each Participant
for each Unit of Participation pursuant to Section 5.1. 

11.           Disability.   Disability 
means a disability as defined in the SBC Communications Inc. Sickness and
Accident Disability Benefit Plan or the SBC Communications Inc. Senior
Management Long Term Disability Plan covering the Participant, as
applicable. 

12.           Intentionally
Omitted. 

13.           Intentionally
Omitted. 

14.           Intentionally
Omitted. 

15.           Early
Retirement.   Early Retirement  means the termination of a
Participant's employment with Employer for reasons other than death prior to
Normal Retirement and on or after the date Participant attains age
55. 

16.           Election
Form.  The  Election Form  means an Eligible Employee's written
election to participate in the Plan with respect to each Unit of Participation
in accordance with Section 4. 

17.           Eligible
Employee.   Eligible Employee  means an Employee of the Employer who
(a) is in active service, (b) is a Senior Manager or has an employment status
which has been approved by the Board or its Chairman to be eligible to
participate in this Plan, and (c) who continuously maintains the employment
status upon which eligibility to participate in this Plan was
based. 

18.           Employee.   Employee 
means any person employed by the Employer on a regular full-time salaried
basis. 

19.           Employer.   Employer 
means SBC Communications Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries. 

20.           Normal
Retirement.   Normal Retirement  means attainment of age 65 during a
Participant's employment with Employer irrespective of whether there is a
termination of Participant's employment with Employer. 

21.           Participant.   Participant 
means an Employee participating in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4. 

22.           Plan
Year.   Plan Year  means the calendar year. 

23.       Projected
Employer Contribution.   Projected Employer Contribution  means for
purposes of computing the Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit with respect to a Unit
of Participation pursuant to Section 6.6(a), the product of (i) the Company
Match Rate Expressed as a Percent* as in effect at the time of the Unit Start
Date, times the Participant's annual Base Salary at the Unit Start Date minus
(a) any Employer matching contribution determined as of the Unit Start Date
associated with said Base Salary at the Unit Start Date which is then being
contributed or is to be contributed to the Salaried Savings Plan and minus (b)
any Employer matching contribution which has previously been allocated to a Unit
of Participation under this or any other Employer deferred compensation plan and
(ii) the number of years in the Unit Deferral Period for the Unit of
Participation. 

24.        Rotational
Work Assignment Company ( RWAC ). shall mean Bell Communications Research, Inc.
( Bellcore ), formerly the Central Services Organization, Inc., and/or any other
entity with which SBC Communications Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries may enter
into an agreement to provide an employee for a rotational work
assignment.25.      Retirement Benefit
Option.   Retirement Benefit Option  means with respect to any Unit of
Participation the Retirement Benefit payment option described in Section
6. 

25.           Senior
Manager.   Senior Manager  means an individual employed by Employer in
a position having a Salary Grade of 29 or above or equivalent. 

26.           SBC
Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees.   SBC
Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees  or  Salaried Savings
Plan  means the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees or
any successor plan to such plan adopted by the Employer. Participants from any
Subsidiary, permitted to participate in this Plan, shall be treated as
participating in the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees
for purposes of calculating any matching Employer contributions. 

* 

The
      Company Match Rate Expressed as a Percent means the maximum percent of
      salary that can be received as Employer matching contribution under the
      SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees, e.g., a match
      of 66 2/3% of the amount of basic allotment (up to 6%) of salary results
      in a Company Match Rate Expressed as a Percent of .667 x 6% --
      4%. 

27.           Subsidiary.  A
 Subsidiary  of the Company is any corporation, partnership, venture or other
entity in which the Company has, either directly or indirectly, at least a 10%
ownership interest. 

28.           Total
Unit Deferral Amount.   Total Unit Deferral Amount  means the sum of
all amounts of Base Salary deferred during the Unit Deferral Period with respect
to a Unit of Participation, as shown in Exhibit A of Participant's Agreement for
that Unit of Participation. 

29.           Unit
Deferral Period.   Unit Deferral Period  means the number of months
the Participant elects to reduce his Base Salary with respect to a Unit of
Participation, as shown in Exhibit A of Participant's Agreement for that Unit of
Participation. The Unit Deferral Period for a Unit of Participation will
commence on the Unit Start Date and end upon the earliest to occur of the
following: (i) the last day of the forty-eight (48) month period which commenced
with the Unit Start Date, or (ii) when the Participant terminates employment,
terminates the Unit of Participation or ceases to be an Eligible Employee as
described in Section 6.4 of the Plan. In no event shall the Unit Deferral Period
for a Unit of Participation end later than forty-eight (48) months after the
Unit Start Date. 

30.           Unit
of Participation.   Unit of Participation  means a stated Total Unit
Deferral Amount and associated Employer contributions which provide stated
benefits pursuant to Section 6 in accordance with the Participant's Agreement
for that Unit of Participation. 

31.           Unit
Start Date.   Unit Start Date  means the date for commencement of
deferrals shown in Exhibit A of a Participant's Agreement for a given Unit of
Participation. The Unit Start Date will be January 1, unless the Administrative
Committee, in its sole discretion permits a new Participant to elect a Unit
Start Date within 30 days after such Participant first becomes an Eligible
Employee. 

Section
      3 

Administration
      of the Plan.  The Administrative Committee shall be the sole
      administrator of the Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret,
      construe and apply its provisions in accordance with its terms. The
      Administrative Committee shall further establish, adopt or revise such
      rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or advisable for the
      administration of the Plan. All decisions of the Administrative Committee
      shall be final and binding. 

Section
      4 

Participation. 

4.1           Election
to Commence a Unit of Participation.  Any Eligible Employee may elect
to commence deferral of Base Salary with respect to a Unit of Participation
under the Plan by filing a completed Election Form with the Administrative
Committee prior to the beginning of the Unit Start Date. Pursuant to said
Election Form, the Eligible Employee shall elect a Total Unit Deferral Amount
and a Unit Deferral Period to be specified in Exhibit A of Participant's
Agreement with respect to such Unit of Participation. 

The
combination of deferrals from all of the Participant's Units of Participation
including the Unit of Participation with respect to which the Participant is
electing to commence deferrals and from Units of Participation under the SBC
Communications Inc. Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan ( SBC DCP ),
must be at least six percent (6%) of Participant's Base Salary at the Unit Start
Date for the Unit of Participation with respect to which the Participant is
electing to commence deferrals. A Unit of Participation shall require a minimum
Annualized Total Unit Deferral Amount of $1,000. The sum of the Participant's
contributions, if any, to the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried
Employees plus the Annualized Total Unit Deferral Amounts for all Units of
Participation under this Plan and under the SBC DCP in a given Plan Year may not
exceed thirty percent (30%) of a Participant's Compensation for that Plan
Year. 

4.2           Termination
of Election.  A Participant's election to defer Base Salary is
irrevocable upon the filing of his Election Form with the Administrative
Committee, provided, however, that the election may be terminated with respect
to Base Salary not yet paid by mutual agreement in writing between the
Participant and the Administrative Committee. Such termination if approved shall
be effective beginning the first day of the month following the execution of
such mutual agreement. 

Section
      5 

Deferred
      Compensation. 

5.1           Deferred
Compensation Account.  The Administrative Committee shall establish
and maintain a separate Deferred Compensation Account for each Participant for
each Unit of Participation.  The amount by which a Participant's Base
Salary is reduced each month pursuant to Section 4.1 and the amount of Employer
contribution allocated to the Participant's Units of Participation pursuant to
Section 5.3 with respect to any Unit of Participation shall be credited by the
Employer to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account for such Unit of
Participation no later than the first day of the following month, and such
Deferred Compensation Account shall be debited by the amount of any payments
made by the Employer to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary with
respect to such Unit of Participation pursuant to this Plan. 

With
respect to each Unit of Participation, the Deferred Compensation Account of a
Participant shall be deemed to bear interest from the date such Deferred
Compensation Account was established through the date of commencement of benefit
payments at a rate equal to the applicable Declared Rate for the particular Plan
Year on the balance from month-to-month in such Deferred Compensation
Account.  Interest will be credited monthly to the Deferred
Compensation Account at one-twelfth of the annual Declared Rate, compounded
annually.  Following the commencement of benefit payments with respect
to a Unit of Participation, a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall
be deemed to bear interest on the balance in such Deferred Compensation Account
from month-to-month at a rate equal to one-twelfth of the average of the annual
Declared Rates for the five (5) Plan Years ending prior to commencement of
benefit payments (or, if the Plan has been in operation for less than five (5)
Plan Years, the average of the Declared Rates for all Plan Years ending prior to
commencement of benefit payments). 

5.2           Participant
Deferrals.  The Participant's Total Unit Deferral Amount is deferred
in equal amounts on a monthly basis over the Unit Deferral Period or as
otherwise may be permitted by the Administrative Committee.  The
amount deferred each month with respect to a given Unit of Participation shall
be credited by the Employer to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account
for that Unit of Participation no later than the first day of the following
month. 

The
Participant will be permitted to defer an additional amount equal to all or a
portion of his Short Term Incentive Award. A Participant shall not be permitted
to  defer  into the Plan any monies that are not compensation paid by Employer.
Any additional deferrals by a Participant with respect to a given Unit of
Participation shall not affect Total Unit Deferral Amount and shall not result
in any change in the maximum Employer contribution pursuant to Section 5.3 for
the Plan Year during which the additional deferral is made.  In no
event shall any such additional deferral by a Participant result in any
reduction in the amounts by which the Participant's Base Salary is reduced
pursuant to Exhibit A to the Participant's Agreement with respect to such Unit
of Participation prior to completion of deferral of the Total Unit Deferral
Amount for such Unit 

      of
Participation. Participant's election to defer all or a portion of his Short
Term Incentive Award shall be filed with the Administrative Committee (on a form
to be provided by said Committee for such purpose) prior to the beginning of the
fiscal year during which such Award is earned. 

Such
additional deferral amount shall be considered a separate part of Participant's
Deferred Compensation Account, shall be subject to the terms thereof except
survivor benefits, and shall be paid out in the same manner as the rest of such
Deferred Compensation Account. 

5.3           Employer
Contribution.  Participation in this Plan does not preclude
participation in the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried
Employees.  For a given Plan Year, the aggregate Employer contribution
to both the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees and this
Plan on behalf of a Participant will be an amount equal to the Company Match
Rate Expressed as a Percent as in effect during all or portions of that Plan
year times the Participant's Compensation as in effect during all or portions of
that Plan Year which is contributed or deferred for that Plan Year by the
Participant in accordance with each plan, respectively.  Any such
amount of Employer contribution not allocated to the SBC Communications Inc.
Savings Plan for Salaried Employees will be credited to the Participant's
Deferred Compensation Accounts, as applicable.  The amount or percent
of a Participant's Base Salary to be allocated to Basic Allotments in the SBC
Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees shall be specified in
Paragraph 3 of a Participant's Agreement. 

5.4           Vesting
of Deferred Compensation Account.  A Participant's interest in his
Deferred Compensation Account shall vest at the same rate and in the same manner
as it would under the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried
Employees, as in effect from time to time, had both the Deferral Amount and the
Employer contribution to this Plan with respect to that Deferral Amount for any
given Unit of Participation been contributed instead to the SBC Communications
Inc. Savings Plan for Salaried Employees.  For this purpose all years
of service recognized under the SBC Communications Inc. Savings Plan for
Salaried Employees, for purposes of determining a Participants vested interest
under that plan, shall be taken into account in determining the Participant's
vested interest under this Plan. 

5.5           Valuation
of Accounts.  The value of a Deferred Compensation Account as of any
date shall equal the amounts theretofore credited to such account plus the
interest on such account credited in accordance with Section 5.1 through the day
preceding such date. 

5.6           Statement
of Accounts.  Each Participant will receive annual statements in such
form as the Administrative Committee deems desirable setting forth the balance
standing to the credit of each of the Participant's Deferred Compensation
Accounts. 

Section
      6 

Retirement
      Benefits.  Section 6 shall apply to all Units of Participation
      under this Plan. The benefits specified in this Section 6 shall be
      provided under the Retirement Benefit
Option. 

6.1           Normal
Retirement.  Upon Normal Retirement, with respect to a Unit of
Participation, the Employer shall pay to the Participant an equal amount each
month for one hundred eighty (180) months, beginning on the first day of the
month next following the date of Normal Retirement, which will amortize over
such one hundred eighty (180) equal monthly payments the sum of (a) the value of
the Deferred Compensation Account for such Unit of Participation as of the date
of commencement of benefit payments, plus (b) the interest that will accrue on
the unpaid balance in such Deferred Compensation Account during such one hundred
eighty (180) month period pursuant to Section 5.1 ( Standard Retirement
Benefit ). Alternatively, a Participant may elect in the Agreement for any Unit
of Participation to receive an alternative retirement benefit in lieu of the
Standard Retirement Benefit ( Alternative Retirement Benefit ) for such Unit of
Participation either in a lump sum payment or in sixty (60) or one hundred
twenty (120) equal monthly payments, with the amount of each monthly payment to
be calculated in accordance with the principle stated in the preceding
sentence. 

6.2           Early
Retirement.  Upon Early Retirement, with respect to a Unit of
Participation, the Employer shall pay to the Participant an equal amount each
month for one hundred eighty (180) months, beginning on the first day of the
month next following the date of Early Retirement, which will amortize over such
one hundred eighty (180) equal monthly payments the sum of (a) the value of the
Deferred Compensation Account for such Unit of Participation as of the date of
commencement of benefit payments, plus (b) the interest that will accrue on the
unpaid balance in such Deferred Compensation Account during such one hundred
eighty (180) month period pursuant to Section 5.1 ( Standard Retirement
Benefit ). Alternatively, a Participant may elect in the Agreement for any Unit
of Participation to receive an alternative retirement benefit in lieu of the
Standard Retirement Benefit ( Alternative Retirement Benefit ) for such Unit of
Participation either in a lump sum payment or in sixty (60) or one hundred
twenty (120) equal monthly payments, with the amount of each monthly payment to
be calculated in accordance with the principle stated in the preceding
sentence.  A Participant may further elect in the Agreement for any
Unit of Participation to have the Early Retirement Benefit for such Unit of
Participation commence when he attains age 65. 

6.3           Provisions
Relating to Manner and Time of Payments.  If a Participant's Agreement
fails to show an election of a manner of payment of a Normal or Early Retirement
Benefit such Participant will receive the Standard Normal or Early Retirement
Benefit in accordance with Section 6.1 or Section 6.2,
respectively. 

In the
event that a final determination shall be made by the Internal Revenue Service
or any court of competent jurisdiction that by reason of Normal or Early
Retirement a Participant has recognized gross income for Federal income tax
purposes in excess of the Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit actually
paid by the Employer to which such gross income is attributable, the Employer
shall make a lump sum payment to the Participant of the remaining balance of his
Deferred Compensation Accounts for any affected Units of
Participation.  If a benefit is payable to a Participant pursuant to
this paragraph for any Unit of Participation, no other benefits shall thereafter
be payable under this Plan with respect to such Unit of
Participation. 

Notwithstanding
any election made by the Participant, the Administrative Committee will pay the
Participant's Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit in the form of a lump
sum payment if the value of his Deferred Compensation Account for a Unit of
Participation is less than $10,000 when payment of a Normal or Early Retirement
Benefit with respect to the Unit of Participation would otherwise
commence. 

6.4           Termination
Benefit. 

(a) 

Termination
      of Employment Before Attaining Age 55.  Upon any termination of
      employment of the Participant for reasons other than death or Disability
      before the Participant attains age fifty-five (55), the Company shall pay
      to the Participant, with respect to a Unit of Participation, as
      compensation earned for services rendered prior to his termination of
      service, a lump sum equal to the vested portion of the amounts standing
      credited to his Deferred Compensation Account for such Unit of
      Participation as of the date of such termination of service ( Termination
      Benefit ). 

(b) 

Termination
      of a Unit of Participation.  A Participant may discontinue a
      Unit of Participation while continuing in the service of the Employer.
      Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, upon such discontinuance,
      the Participant shall immediately cease to be eligible for any benefits
      other than his Termination Benefit with respect to that Unit of
      Participation except as provided under Section
  8.1. 

No other
benefit shall be payable with regard to such Unit of Participation to either the
Participant or any Beneficiary of such Participant. The Participant shall
continue to be credited with interest on the amounts standing credited to his
Deferred Compensation Accounts as provided under Section 5.1 and to vest in such
amounts as provided under Section 5.4 while he remains in employment with the
Employer until payment of his Termination Benefit. However, no further
Participant deferrals or Employer contributions to this Plan shall be made
pursuant to Sections 5.2 or 5.3 with respect to a Unit of Participation after a
Participant discontinues or terminates such Unit of Participation. 

A
Participant shall terminate a Unit of Participation if he terminates his
election to defer Base Salary with the approval of the Administrative Committee
pursuant to Section 4.2. 

(c) 

Loss
      of Eligibility. In the event that the Participant ceases to be an Eligible
      Employee by reason of a change to an employment status which is not
      eligible to participate in this Plan, except as provided under Section
      8.1, the Participant shall immediately cease to be eligible for any
      benefits other than a modified Termination Benefit which shall consist of
      a lump sum equal to the vested amounts standing credited to his Deferred
      Compensation Accounts as of the date of such loss of eligibility, provided
      the Participant shall continue to be credited with interest on such
      amounts as provided under Section 5.1 and to vest in such amounts as
      provided under Section 5.4 while he remains in employment with the
      Employer. However, no further Participant deferrals or Employer
      contributions shall be made to this Plan pursuant to Sections 5.2 or 5.3
      subsequent to the date of such loss of eligibility.  Each such
      lump sum Termination Benefit shall be payable upon the Participant's
      termination of employment by the Employer, whether by death, Normal
      Retirement, Early Retirement or any other means. The provisions of this
      subparagraph 6.4(c) shall not apply if the Participant in his new
      employment status is an eligible employee under another similar deferred
      compensation plan of the Employer. In such event the provisions of Section
      8.6 of this Plan shall apply. 

(d) 

No
      Other Benefits Payable.  When a Participant terminates
      employment, terminates a Unit of Participation or ceases to be an Eligible
      Employee under circumstances in which Section 6.4(a), (b) or (c) applies,
      no Survivor Benefit or other benefit shall thereafter be payable under
      this Plan to either the Participant or any Beneficiary of the Participant
      with respect to such Unit of Participation except as provided under
      Section 8.1. 

6.5           Disability.  In
the event that a Participant suffers a Disability, Participant deferrals and
Employer contributions that otherwise would have been credited to the Deferred
Compensation Accounts of the Participant in accordance with Sections 5.2 and 5.3
will continue to be credited to such Deferred Compensation Accounts at the same
time and in the same amounts as they would have been credited if the Participant
had not suffered a Disability for as long as he is eligible to receive monthly
disability benefits equal to 100 percent of his monthly base salary at the time
of his Disability.  At such time as the Participant is not eligible to
receive monthly disability benefits equal to 100 percent of his monthly base
salary at the time of his Disability, Participant deferrals and Employer
contributions that otherwise would have been credited to the Deferred
Compensation Accounts of the Participant in accordance with Section 5.2 and 5.3
shall cease. 

If the
Participant recovers from his Disability and returns within sixty (60) days
thereafter to employment with the Employer in an employment status which would
make him eligible to participate in this Plan and prior to the end of the
original Unit Deferral Period, the Participant shall continue or resume making
deferrals, as the case may be, in accordance with Section 5.2 and the Employer
shall continue or resume making contributions, as the case may be, in accordance
with Section 5.3 until the end of the original Unit Deferral
Period. 

If the
Participant recovers from his Disability, the Participant shall be treated as
terminating service with the Employer on the date of his recovery, unless within
sixty (60) days thereafter he returns to employment with the Employer in an
employment status which makes him eligible to participate in this
Plan. 

If a
Participant's Disability terminates by reason of his death, the rights of his
Beneficiary shall be determined pursuant to Section 6.6 as if the Participant
had not been disabled but rather had been in service on the date of his death
and either died or retired on such date, whichever would be most advantageous to
such Beneficiary.  If a Participant's Disability terminates by reason
of attainment of age 65, the Participant shall upon the attainment of age 65 be
entitled to a Normal Retirement Benefit determined pursuant to Section
6.1.  If a Participant's Disability terminates by reason of the
Participant's election to take Early Retirement under the Plan, the Participant
shall be treated as having an Early Retirement on the date elected by the
Participant and shall be entitled to an Early Retirement Benefit determined
pursuant to Section 6.2. 
 
      6.6           Survivor
Benefits. 

(a) 

If
      a Participant dies while in service with the Employer (or while suffering
      from a Disability prior to attaining age 55) prior to eligibility for
      Early Retirement with respect to a Unit of Participation, upon the
      Participant's death the Employer will pay to the Participant's Beneficiary
      with respect to each Unit of Participation an amount per month, as
      specified in paragraph 6 of his Agreement, equal to the greater of (i)
      [(50% of the sum of the Total Unit Deferral Amount plus the Projected
      Employer Contribution for such Unit of Participation) divided by 12] or
      (ii) the balance in the Deferred Compensation Account (excluding any Short
      Term Incentive Award deferred pursuant to Section 5.2 and excluding any
      interest earned on the Short Term Incentive Award) divided by the number
      of months payments are to be made as stated below, plus interest in
      accordance with the interest methodology of Section 6.2. Payments are to
      be made for the greater of one hundred twenty (120) months or the number
      of months from the date of Participant's death until he would have been
      age 65 ( Pre-Retirement Survivor
Benefit ). 

In
addition, the Participant's Beneficiary will receive any Short Term Incentive
Award associated with such Unit of Participation, deferred pursuant to Section
5.2, plus corresponding interest earned on the Short Term Incentive Award, paid
out over the same period as the Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit and in
accordance with the interest methodology of Section 6.2. 

(b) 

If
      a Participant dies while in service after eligibility for Early Retirement
      with respect to a Unit of Participation, but prior to commencement of
      payment of an Early or Normal Retirement Benefit with respect to such Unit
      of Participation, the Employer will pay to the Participant's Beneficiary
      the greater of (i) the benefit that such Participant's Beneficiary would
      have received with respect to such Unit of Participation had the
      Participant retired and commenced to receive an Early Retirement Benefit
      on the day prior to such Participant's death or (ii) a benefit equal to
      the Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit.  The Administrative
      Committee shall determine which benefit is greater on a present value
      basis using such interest rate as the Administrative Committee may
      determine in its sole discretion.  Payments will commence upon
      the Participant's death, irrespective of when Early Retirement Benefit
      payments would have commenced if the Participant had survived. Such
      payments shall be made in accordance with the method of payment which the
      Participant had elected for payment of his Normal or Early Retirement
      Benefit. 

(c) 

If
      a Participant dies after Early or Normal Retirement but before
      commencement of payment of an Early or Normal Retirement Benefit with
      respect to a Unit of Participation, the Employer will pay to the
      Participant's Beneficiary the installments of any such benefit that such
      Participant's Beneficiary would have received with respect to such Unit of
      Participation had the Participant commenced to receive an Early or Normal
      Retirement Benefit on the day prior to such Participant's
      death.  Payments will commence upon the Participant's death,
      irrespective of when Early or Normal Retirement Benefit payments would
      have commenced if the Participant had survived. Such payments shall be
      made in accordance with the method of payment which the Participant had
      elected for payment of his Normal or Early Retirement
    Benefit. 

(d) 

If
      a Participant dies after the commencement of payment of an Early or Normal
      Retirement Benefit with respect to a Unit of Participation, the Employer
      will pay to the Participant's Beneficiary the remaining installments of
      any such benefit that would have been paid to the Participant had the
      Participant survived. 

(e) 

As
      an additional benefit, if a Participant dies subsequent to eligibility to
      commence payment of a Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit, and has
      a surviving spouse, the Employer shall pay to the spouse commencing on the
      later of (a) the sixteenth (16th) year after commencement of payment of
      any Standard or Alternative Retirement Benefit or (b) the first of the
      month following the Participant's death, an amount per month for the life
      of the spouse equal to sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the
      Standard Retirement Benefit.  If the spouse is more than three
      (3) years younger or older than the Participant on the date of
      Participant's death, the amount of such benefit shall be actuarially
      adjusted based on standard mortality
tables. 

6.7           Termination
with Retirement Eligibility/Involuntary Termination.  Notwithstanding
any other provisions of the Plan, if after November 17, 1995, a Participant s
employment terminates before the Participant attains age fifty-five, and if such
termination is involuntary (which shall be deemed to include termination by
reason of death), and is for a reason other than for cause (i.e., willful and
gross misconduct on the part of the Participant that is materially and
demonstrably detrimental to the Company or any entity in which the Company has
at least a 50% ownership interest), and is on or after the date Participant is
within five years of being pension eligible, i.e., would be within five years of
being eligible to retire with a service pension under the rules for service
pension eligibility as in effect under the SBC Pension Benefit Plan, and/or is a
Senior Manager within five years of being eligible to retire with an immediate
pension based on the eligibility rules of the SBC Senior Management Supplemental
Retirement Income Plan, whether or not actually a participant in either such
plan, then the provisions of this Section 6.7 shall govern and control with
respect to the distribution of the Plan s benefits if the benefits offered by
this Section 6.7 are elected.  In such case, the Participant, or the
Participant s Beneficiary(ies) if the Participant s employment terminates by
reason of the Participant s death, may irrevocably elect in writing, in a Waiver
Agreement, as described below, filed with the Company, to waive the Termination
Benefit or the Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit, as applicable, with respect to
any or all Units of Participation, and in lieu of said Benefit for any such
Unit, receive an  Alternative Termination Benefit . 

Such
Alternative Termination Benefit for a Unit shall be the Unit as described in the
Participant s Agreement, provided in accordance with and governed in all
respects by the terms of the Plan and said Agreement, except that the Plan and
Agreement shall be applied with respect to such Unit as if the Participant had
remained in employment and retired upon or after attaining age fifty-five,
regardless of Participant s actual termination date.  For purposes of
applying the Plan and the Agreement, Normal Retirement shall be the
Participant s sixty-fifth birthday and Early Retirement shall be the date
specified by the Participant as Participant s Early Retirement date, which date
shall be specified at the time the waiver Agreement, as described below, is
filed with the Company, and which date may be no earlier than Participant s
fifty-fifth birthday.  In the event of Participant s death prior to
age fifty-five, the Alternative Termination Benefit for a Unit, whether such
Benefit was elected by the Participant or Participant s Beneficiary(ies), shall
be determined, as described below, by applying the Plan and Agreement with
respect to such Unit as if the Participant had died upon reaching age
fifty-five. 

Accordingly,
notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, for purposes of application of
this Section 6.7, in the event a Participant elects an Alternative Termination
Benefit in lieu of the Termination Benefit for a Unit, or a Beneficiary(ies)
elects to receive an Alternative Termination Benefit in lieu of a Pre-Retirement
Survivor Benefit for a Unit, survivor benefits for such Unit shall be determined
as follows:  (a)  If Participant dies on or after the date
specified by Participant as Participant s Early Retirement date, Participant s
Beneficiary(ies) shall receive the remaining installments of Participant s
retirement benefit; or (b)  If Participant dies on or after age
fifty-five but prior to the date specified by Participant as Participant s Early
Retirement date, Participant s Beneficiary(ies) will receive survivor benefits
in  accordance with Section 6.6(b), i.e., the provision of the Plan
that would have applied had Participant s death actually been an in service
death which occurred upon or after attainment of age fifty-five,
or  (c)  If Participant s death occurs prior to age
fifty-five, Participant s Beneficiary(ies) will receive at such time as
Participant would have attained age fifty-five, survivor benefits in accordance
with Section 6.6(b), i.e., the provision of the Plan that would have applied had
Participant s death actually been an in service death which occurred upon
attainment of age fifty-five; and  (d)  Finally, the benefit
described in Section 6.6(e) shall apply commencing on the later of the sixteenth
year after commencement of payments pursuant to the Alternative Termination
Benefit or the first of the month following Participant s death. 

For
purposes of computing the Vested Benefits (as such term is used in rabbi trusts
( Trusts ) established by the Company for the purpose of providing for the
payment of benefits under the Plan) corresponding to an Alternative Termination
Benefit, for all Trust purposes, including for purposes of determining the Trust
funding level applicable for such Alternative Termination Benefit, the
Participant shall be treated for each such Alternative Termination Benefit Unit
as if continuing in employment until age fifty-five if the Participant dies
before attaining age fifty-five or until the date of Participant s death if
Participant dies after attaining age fifty-five or until reaching the
Participant s Early Retirement Date for such Unit as selected by the Participant
if Participant survives until such date, i.e., the Trust funding for any such
Unit and the security afforded Participant or Participant s Beneficiary(ies)
thereby shall be no different as a result of this Section 6.7 than they would
have been had Participant continued in employment in the absence of this Section
6.7 and lived until at least age fifty-five. 

Waiver of
a Termination Benefit with respect to a Unit by a Participant, or of a
Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit with respect to a Unit by a Beneficiary(ies),
and in either case, receipt of an Alternative Termination Benefit in lieu
thereof, shall be conditioned upon the agreement in writing by the Participant,
or Participant s Beneficiary(ies), as applicable, at the time of Participant s
termination of employment, to provisions substantially as attached. 

6.8           Termination
Under EPR.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, if a
Participant's employment terminates before the Participant attains age
fifty-five, and if such termination is as an EPR Terminee under the Enhanced
Pension and Retirement Program ("EPR") of the SBC Pension Benefit
Plan-Nonbargained Program ("SBC PBP") or as a Deceased Electing Employee under
EPR, and is on or after the date Participant is within five years of being
pension eligible, i.e., would be within five years of being eligible to retire
with a service pension under the rules for service pension eligibility as in
effect under the SBC PBP, and/or is a Senior Manager within five years of being
eligible to retire with an immediate pension based on the eligibility rules of
the SBC Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, whether or not actually a
participant in either such plan, or a Participant who is age 55 or over
terminates employment under EPR, then the provisions of this Section 6.8 shall
govern and control with respect to the distribution of the Plan s benefits if
the benefits offered by this Section 6.8 are elected.  In such case,
the Participant, or the Participant s Beneficiary(ies) if the Participant s
employment terminates by reason of the Participant s death, may irrevocably
elect in writing, in an EPR special election form filed with the Company, to
waive the Termination Benefit or the Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit or the
Early Retirement Benefit, as applicable, with respect to any or all Units of
Participation, and in lieu of said Benefit for any such Unit, receive an  EPR
Alternative Termination Benefit . 

Such an
EPR Alternative Termination Benefit for a Unit shall be the Unit as described in
the Participant s Agreement, provided in accordance with and governed in all
respects by the terms of the Plan and said Agreement, except that the Plan and
Agreement shall be applied with respect to such Unit, in accordance with
Participant's special EPR election form applicable to such Unit, as if the
Participant had remained in employment and retired upon the Participant's Early
Retirement Date specified in his EPR special election form applicable to such
Unit of Participation, regardless of Participant s actual termination
date.  For purposes of applying the Plan and the Agreement, Normal
Retirement shall be the Participant s sixty-fifth birthday and Early Retirement
shall be the date specified by the Participant as Participant s Early Retirement
date, which date shall be specified in Participant's special EPR election form
filed with the Company, and which date may be no earlier than Participant s
fifty-fifth birthday.  In the event of Participant s death prior to
age fifty-five, the EPR Alternative Termination Benefit for a Unit, whether such
Benefit was elected by the Participant or Participant s Beneficiary(ies), shall
be determined, as described below, by applying the Plan and Agreement with
respect to such Unit as if the Participant had died upon or after reaching age
fifty-five. 

Accordingly,
notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, for purposes of application of
this Section 6.8, in the event a Participant elects an EPR Alternative
Termination Benefit in lieu of the Termination Benefit or the Early Retirement
Benefit for a Unit, or a Beneficiary(ies) elects to receive an EPR Alternative
Termination Benefit in lieu of a Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit for a Unit, as
applicable, survivor benefits for such Unit shall be determined as
follows:  (a) If Participant dies on or after the date specified by
Participant as Participant s Early Retirement date, Participant s
Beneficiary(ies) shall receive the remaining installments of Participant s
retirement benefit; or (b) If Participant dies on or after age fifty-five but
prior to the date specified by Participant as Participant s Early Retirement
date, Participant s Beneficiary(ies) will receive survivor benefits
in  accordance with Section 6.6(b), i.e., the provision of the Plan
that would have applied had Participant s death actually been an in service
death which occurred upon or after attainment of age fifty-five,
or  (c) If Participant s death occurs prior to age fifty-five,
Participant s Beneficiary(ies) will receive at such time as Participant would
have attained age fifty-five, survivor benefits in accordance with Section
6.6(b), i.e., the provision of the Plan that would have applied had
Participant s death actually been an in service death which occurred upon
attainment of age fifty-five; and  (d)  Finally, the benefit
described in Section 6.6(e) shall apply commencing on the later of the sixteenth
year after commencement of payments pursuant to the EPR Alternative Termination
Benefit or the first of the month following Participant s death. 

For
purposes of computing the Vested Benefits (as such term is used in rabbi trusts
( Trusts ) established by the Company for the purpose of providing for the
payment of benefits under the Plan) corresponding to an EPR Alternative
Termination Benefit, for all Trust purposes, including for purposes of
determining the Trust funding level applicable for such EPR Alternative
Termination Benefit, the Participant shall be treated for each such EPR
Alternative Termination Benefit Unit as if continuing in employment until age
fifty-five if the Participant dies before attaining age fifty-five or until the
date of Participant s death if Participant dies after attaining age fifty-five
or until reaching the Participant s Early Retirement Date for such Unit as
selected by the Participant if Participant survives until such date, i.e., the
Trust funding for any such Unit and the security afforded Participant or
Participant s Beneficiary(ies) thereby shall be no different as a result of this
Section 6.8 than they would have been had Participant continued in employment in
the absence of this Section 6.8 and lived until at least age
fifty-five. 

Section
      7 

Intentionally
      Omitted. 

Section
      8 

Payment
      of Benefits. 

8.1           Intentionally
Omitted. 

8.2           Small
Benefit.  Notwithstanding any election made by the Participant, the
Administrative Committee will pay any benefit in the form of a lump sum payment
if the lump sum equivalent amount is less than $10,000 when payment of such
benefit would otherwise commence. 
 
      8.3           Emergency
Benefit.  In the event that the Administrative Committee, upon written
petition of the Participant, determines in its sole discretion, that the
Participant has suffered an unforeseeable financial emergency, the Employer
shall pay to the Participant, as soon as practicable following such
determination, the balance of his Deferred Compensation Accounts for one or more
Units of Participation as necessary to meet the emergency (the  Emergency
Benefit ).  For purposes of this Plan, an unforeseeable financial
emergency is an unexpected need for cash arising from an illness, casualty loss,
sudden financial reversal, or other such unforeseeable
occurrence.  Cash needs arising from foreseeable events such as the
purchase of a house or education expenses for children shall not be considered
to be the result of an unforeseeable financial emergency.  Upon
payment of an Emergency Benefit with respect to any Unit of Participation, the
Unit of Participation shall thereupon terminate, and no other benefits shall be
payable under the Plan to either the Participant or any Beneficiary of the
Participant with respect to the Unit of Participation. 

8.4           Commencement
of Payments.  Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, commencement
of payments under this Plan shall begin sixty (60) days following the event
which entitles a Participant (or a Beneficiary) to payments under the Plan, or
at such earlier date as may be determined by the Administrative
Committee. 

8.5           Withholding;
Unemployment Taxes.  To the extent required by the law in effect at
the time payments are made, the Employer shall withhold from payments made
hereunder the minimum taxes required to be withheld by the federal or any state
or local government. 

8.6           Change
in Status.  In the event of a change in the employment status of a
Participant to a status in which he is no longer an Eligible Employee under this
Plan, but is an eligible employee under the Management Deferred Compensation
Plan of 1988 or another similar deferred compensation plan of the Employer, the
Participant and all of his Units of Participation under this Plan shall
automatically be transferred to such other deferred compensation plan for which
he is then an eligible employee, unless otherwise determined by the
Administrative Committee.  In the event of any such transfer, the
provisions of the other deferred compensation plan to which the Participant
transfers shall thereafter determine the rights and benefits of the Participant
with respect to all of his Units of Participation, unless otherwise determined
by the Administrative Committee.  The Employer may, but shall not be
required to, enter into revised Agreements with the Participant to carry out the
provisions of this Section. 

8.7           Transfer
to RWAC.   Effective August 1, 1990, if a Participant transfers
to a RWAC prior to completion of a Unit of Participation, deferrals which would
otherwise have been made by the Participant in accordance with Section 5.2 shall
continue to be made by the Employer until the Participant resumes employment
with the Employer but for a maximum period not to exceed 5
years.  Contributions which would have been made by the Employer in
accordance with Section 5.3 shall also continue to be made by the Employer
during such period as Participant contributions are continued in accordance with
the preceding sentence.  Benefits applicable during the period of
employment at a RWAC (not to exceed 5 years) and the methods used for crediting
the Deferred Compensation Account and repaying amounts contributed by the
Employer and reducing the Normal Retirement or Early Retirement Benefit paid to
the Participant or his Beneficiary shall be the same as those applicable
pursuant to Section 6.7 in the case of Disability, i.e., employment at a RWAC
shall be deemed a Disability for the purpose of making determinations pursuant
to Section 6.7.  If the Participant has not resumed employment with
the Employer or has not completed a Unit of Participation as result of Employer
Contributions within 5 years from date of transfer, a Termination Benefit based
on the amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account at
the date of transfer shall be paid upon termination of employment with a RWAC or
the expiration of such 5 year period whichever is earlier. 

8.8           Leave
of Absence.  If a Participant absents himself from employment on a
formally granted leave of absence (i.e., the absence is with formal permission
in order to prevent a break in the continuity of the Employee's term of
employment which permission is granted in conformity with the rules of the
Employer which employs the individual, as adopted from time to time), all of the
Participant's Units of Participation shall automatically be frozen upon such
leave of absence, unless otherwise determined by the Administrative Committee.
No Participant deferrals or Employer contributions shall be made during the
leave of absence.  However, during the leave of absence (for a period
not to exceed six (6) months), the Participant shall continue to be credited
with interest on his Deferred Compensation Accounts as provided under Section
5.1 and to vest in such amounts as provided under Section 5.4, and all benefits
shall continue to be payable to the Participant and his Beneficiaries in
accordance with Section 6 hereof, except in the case of a political leave (i.e.,
to campaign for or serve when elected to a political office, to serve if
appointed to public office or for non-candidate employees to participate in
campaigns of candidates for political office).  In the case of such a
political leave, except as provided under Section 8.1, the only benefit payable
if the Participant dies during such leave shall be a Termination Benefit based
on the amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts,
which shall be payable to the Participant's Beneficiary.  If the
Participant returns to employment with the Employer in an employment status
which makes him eligible to participate in this Plan within six (6) months from
commencement of the leave of absence, Participant deferrals and Employer
contributions will resume until the end of the original Unit Deferral
Period.  If the Participant has not resumed employment with the
Employer in an employment status which makes him eligible to participate in this
Plan within six (6) months from the commencement of the leave of absence, a
Termination Benefit based on the amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred
Compensation Accounts shall be paid to the Participant. 

This
Section 8.8 shall not apply with respect to any period during which a
Participant is suffering from a Disability, and such period of Disability shall
not be included under this Section 8.8 as a portion of a period of leave of
absence. 

8.9           Ineligible
Participant.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the
contrary, if any Participant is determined not to be a  management or highly
compensated employee  within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) or Regulations thereunder, such
Participant will not be eligible to participate in this Plan and shall receive
an immediate lump sum payment equal to the vested portion of the amounts
standing credited to his Deferred Compensation Accounts.  Upon such
payment no Survivor Benefit or other benefit shall thereafter be payable under
this Plan either to the Participant or any Beneficiary of the Participant,
except as provided under Section 8.1. 

Each
Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or
persons as his Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (both primary as well as contingent)
to whom payment under this Plan shall be made in the event of his death prior to
complete distribution to Participant of the benefits due him under the
Plan.  Each Beneficiary designation shall become effective only when
filed in writing with the Administrative Committee during the Participant's
lifetime on a form prescribed by the Administrative Committee with written
acknowledgment of receipt. 

The
filing of a new Beneficiary designation form will cancel all Beneficiary
designations previously filed. The spouse of a married Participant domiciled in
a community property jurisdiction shall join in any designation of Beneficiary
or Beneficiaries other than the spouse. 

If a
Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all
designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or die prior to complete
distribution of the Participant's benefits, then the Administrative Committee
shall direct the distribution of such benefits to the Participant's
estate. 

Section
      9 

Beneficiary
      Designation.  Each Participant shall have the right, at any
      time, to designate any person or persons as his Beneficiary or
      Beneficiaries (both primary as well as contingent) to whom payment under
      this Plan shall be made in the event of his death prior to complete
      distribution to Participant of the benefits due him under the
      Plan.  Each Beneficiary designation shall become effective only
      when filed in writing with the Administrative Committee during the
      Participant s lifetime on a form prescribed by the Administrative
      Committee with written acknowledgment of
  receipt. 

The
filing of a new Beneficiary designation form will cancel all Beneficiary
designations previously filed.  The spouse of a married Participant
domiciled in a community property jurisdiction shall join in any designation of
Beneficiary or Beneficiaries other than the spouse. 

If a
Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all
designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or die prior to complete
distribution of the Participant s benefits, then the Administrative Committee
shall direct the distribution of such benefits to the Participant s
estate. 

Section
      10 

Discontinuation,
      Termination, Amendment. 

10.1           Employer's
Right to Discontinue Offering Units.  The Chairman of the Board may at
any time discontinue offerings of additional Units of Participation with respect
to any or all future Plan Years. Any such discontinuance shall have no affect
upon the deferrals or benefits or the terms or provisions of this Plan as
applicable to any then previously existing Units of Participation. 

10.2           Employer's
Right to Terminate Plan.  The Board may at any time terminate the
Plan. Termination of the Plan shall mean that (1) there shall be no further
offerings of additional Units of Participation with respect to any future Plan
Year; (2) Base Salary shall prospectively cease to be deferred with respect to
all Units of Participation for the then Plan Year and thereafter; and (3) all
then currently existing Units of Participation shall be treated as
follows: 

The
Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be 100% vested. The
Participant shall receive or continue to receive all benefits under this Plan at
such time as provided in and pursuant to the terms and conditions of his
Agreement(s) and as described in this Plan, provided however, any benefits
payable under a Unit of Participation that is not completed due to a termination
of the Plan under this Section 10.2 shall be prorated based   upon the
number of months Participant made deferrals with respect to such Unit of
Participation divided by the Unit Deferral Period for that Unit of
Participation. 

10.3           Amendment.  The
Board may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part, provided however, that
no amendment, including an amendment to this Section 10, shall be effective,
without the written consent of a Participant, to alter, to the detriment of such
Participant, the benefits described in this Plan as applicable to a Unit of
Participation of the Participant or to decrease amounts standing credited to
such Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts under the Plan.  For
purposes of this Section 10.3, an alteration to the detriment of a Participant
shall mean a reduction in the period of time over which benefits are payable
under a Participant's Agreement, subject however to the proration provisions of
Section 10.2 hereof, or any change in the form of benefits payable to a
Participant under the Participant's Agreement.  Written notice of any
amendment shall be given to each Participant. 

Section
      11 

Miscellaneous. 

11.1           Unsecured
General Creditor.  Participants and their Beneficiaries, heirs,
successors, and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights, interest, or
claims in any property or assets of Employer, nor shall they be Beneficiaries
of, or have any rights, claims, or interests in any life insurance policies,
annuity contracts, or the proceeds therefrom owned or which may be acquired by
Employer ( Policies ).  Any such Policies or other assets of Employer
shall not be held under any trust for the benefit of Participants, their
Beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or assigns, or held in any way as collateral
security for the fulfilling of the obligations of Employer under this
Plan.  Any and all of the Employer's assets and Policies shall be, and
remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of Employer. Employer's
obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured
promise of Employer to pay money in the future. 

11.2           Trust
Fund. The Employer shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits provided
under the Plan.  At its discretion, the Company may establish one or
more trusts, for the purpose of providing for the payment of such benefits. Such
trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to
the claims of the Employer's creditors.  To the extent any benefits
provided under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, the Employer
shall have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so
paid, such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by, the
Employer. 

11.3           Obligations
to Employer.  If a Participant becomes entitled to a distribution of
benefits under the Plan, the Employer may offset against the amount of benefits
otherwise distributable any claim to reimbursement for intentional wrongdoing by
the Participant against the Employer or an affiliate.  Such
determination shall be made by the Administrative Committee. 

11.4           Nonassignability.  Neither
a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell,
assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable
hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are,
expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part
of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or
sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate
maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by
operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's
bankruptcy or insolvency. 

11.5           Employment
Not Guaranteed.  Nothing contained in this Plan nor any action taken
hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or as giving any
Employee any right to be retained in the employ of the Employer or to serve as a
director. 

11.6           Protective
Provisions.  A Participant will cooperate with the Employer by
furnishing any and all information requested by the Employer, in order to
facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, taking such physical examinations
as the Employer may deem necessary and taking such other relevant action as may
be requested by the Employer.  If a Participant refuses so to
cooperate, the Employer shall have no further obligation to the Participant
under the Plan.  If a Participant commits suicide during the two-year
period beginning on the Unit Start Date for a given Unit of Participation or if
the Participant makes any material misstatement of information or non-disclosure
of medical history, then no benefits will be payable with respect to that Unit
of Participation to such Participant or his Beneficiary, or in the Employer's
sole discretion, benefits may be payable in a reduced amount. 

11.7           Gender,
Singular and Plural.  All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be
deemed to refer to the masculine or feminine, as the identity of the person or
persons may require. As the context may require, the singular may be read as the
plural and the plural as the singular. 

11.8           Waiver
of Benefits.  No benefit shall be payable under the provisions of this
Plan with respect to any Participant who is or was a member of a group of
employees designated by an Employer as eligible to waive such benefit if such
Participant has waived such benefit under this Plan unless the Employer by which
such Participant is or was last employed has authorized the revocation of such
waiver and such Participant has revoked such waiver. 

11.9           Captions.  The
captions of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of this Plan are for
convenience only and shall not control nor affect the meaning of construction of
any of its provisions. 

11.10                      Applicable
Law.  This Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of Missouri. 

11.11                      Validity.  In
the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void, or unenforceable,
the same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this Plan. 

11.12                      Notice.  Any
notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Administrative
Committee under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered,
or sent by registered or certified mail, to the principal office of the
Employer, directed to the attention of the Vice President-Human Resources of the
Employer.  Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of
delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark
on the receipt for registration or certification. 

11.13                      Successors
and Assigns.  This Plan shall be binding upon the Company and its
successors and assigns. 

SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC. 

      SENIOR
MANAGEMENT 

      DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN OF 1988 AGREEMENT 

      19___
UNIT OF PARTICIPATION 

THIS
AGREEMENT is made and entered into at St. Louis, Missouri as of the _____ day of
___________________________, 19___, by and between SBC Communications Inc.
( Company ), and ( Senior Manager ). 

WHEREAS,
the Company has adopted a Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan of 1988
(the  Plan  and 

WHEREAS,
The Senior Manager has been determined to be eligible to participate in the
Plan; and 

WHEREAS,
the Plan requires that an agreement be entered into between the Company and the
Senior Manager setting out certain terms and benefits of the Plan as they apply
to the Senior Manager; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, the Company and the Senior Manager hereby agree as
follows: 

1.           The
Plan is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement, as though
set forth in full herein. The parties shall be bound by, and have the benefit
of, each and every provision of the Plan, including without limitation the
restrictions on assignability set forth in the Plan. 

2.           The
Senior Manager was born on ______________________. 

3.           The
Senior Manager's basic allotment percentage in the SBC Communications Inc.
Savings Plan for Salaried Employees ( Savings Plan ) is _____ percent
(___%).  Any subsequent change in this level of participation by the
Senior Manager before this Unit of Participation is completed will void this
Agreement and require that a new Agreement be entered into between the Employer
and the Senior Manager. 

4.           The
Senior Manager's Base Salary during a calendar year shall be reduced in
accordance with Exhibit A attached to this Agreement. 

5.           The
Senior Manager's Projected Employer Contribution associated with this Unit of
Participation is set forth in Exhibit A attached to this
Agreement.  There shall be no duplication of Employer matching
contributions, i.e., it is understood that any Employer matching contributions
corresponding to Senior Manager deferrals under this Unit of Participation that
are contributed to the Plan will preclude Employer matching contributions to the
Savings Plan with respect to such Senior Manager deferrals, and vice
versa. 

      6.           The
amount per month of Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit in accordance with Section
6.6(a) of the Plan is the greater of (i) $____________, or (ii) the balance in
the Deferred Compensation Account (excluding Short Term Incentive Awards
deferred and interest earned on such awards) divided by the number of months
payments are to be made, plus interest; such amounts shall be payable for the
greater of ten (10) years or the number of years from the date of Participant's
death until he would have been age 65. 

7.           The
payment option for Participant's 19___ Unit of Participation shall be the
Retirement Benefit Option in accordance with Section 6. 

This
payment option will also apply to payout of any Short Term Incentive Awards
deferred and interest earned on such awards. Such payout is not considered part
of the Standard Retirement Benefit. 

RETIREMENT
      BENEFIT OPTION 

(Paragraphs
8 and 9 apply to benefits paid pursuant to the Retirement Benefit
Option.) 

8.           Upon
Normal or Early Retirement, the Participant hereby elects: (please initial (a)
or (b)) 

(a) 

_______ 

To
      receive a Standard Retirement Benefit, payable for a period of one hundred
      eighty (180) months. 

(b) 

_______ 

To
      receive an Alternative Retirement Benefit to be paid in accordance with
      one of the following payment modes: (please initial one of the
      following) 

(i) 

______ 

In
      a lump sum payment. 

(ii) 

______ 

In
      equal monthly installments for a period of sixty (60)
    months. 

(iii) 

______ 

In
      equal monthly installments for a period of one hundred twenty (120)
      months. 

9.           The
Participant hereby elects to receive any Early Retirement Benefit as follows
(please initial (a) or (b)): 

(b) 

_______ 

Commencing
      at Early Retirement. 

10.           Intentionally
Omitted 

      11.           Intentionally
Omitted 

12.           This
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company, its
successors and assigns, and the Senior Manager and his
Beneficiaries. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have signed and entered into this Agreement
on and as of the date first above written. 

THE
COMPANY: 

        By
___________________________________ 

      Its
Senior Vice President-Human Resources 

SENIOR
MANAGER                                                              ______________________                 ___________ 

        Signature                                      Date 

EXHIBIT A

SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC. 

      SENIOR
MANAGEMENT 

      DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN AGREEMENT 

19__ Unit
of Participation 

Unit
Start Date:  _____________, 19__ 

Unit
Deferral Period: 48 Months 

Annual Amount 

        Year                                                                                    
              Deferred                            

1.           Unit
Start Date: 

19__                 (commencing
the first day 

         of the month of
January)                                                          
             $__________
(1) 

2.           19__                                                                                                       
         __________
(1) 

3.           19__                                                                                                       
         __________
(1) 

4.           19__                 (ending
the last day
of                                                                          __________
(1) 

         the month of
December) 

Total Unit 

        Deferral
Amount                                           $_____________ 

Projected Employer
Contribution                                                                               $_____________ 

        associated with this Unit
of 

        Participation 

Monthly Pre-Retirement
Survivor                                                                              $_____________ 

        Benefit associated with this
Unit 

        of Participation 

_____________________________________________________________________ 

(1)   

This
      amount will be deferred in equal amounts on a monthly
    basis. 

</EX-10.E>

<EX-10.H>
 11
 ex10h.htm
 AT&T INC HEALTH PLAN

ex10h.htm 

Exhibit
10-h 

AT T
HEALTH PLAN 

Effective:  January
1, 1987 

Revisions
Effective:  January 1, 2009 

AT T
HEALTH PLAN 

ARTICLE
1   PURPOSE 

The
AT T Health Plan ("Plan") provides Eligible Employees, certain Retired
Eligible Employees, and each of their Dependents with supplemental medical,
dental, and vision benefits.   

ARTICLE
2   DEFINITIONS 

For
purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

2.1      Basic
Plan(s) .  Basic Plan(s)  shall mean AT T s group managed care medical
(known as the AT T Medical Plan), dental (non-DHMO option), and vision
care plans (including the AT T Retiree Vision Care
Program).   For a Participant who Retired on or before August 31,
1992, Basic Plans shall mean the AT T Medical and Group Life Insurance
Plan CustomCare ( CustomCare ) and dental (non-DHMO option) plans. 

2.2      CEO .  "CEO"
shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of AT T Inc. 

2.3      COBRA .   COBRA 
shall mean the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as
amended. 

2.4      Committee .  "Committee"
shall mean the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of AT T
Inc. 

2.5      Dependent  (s) .   Dependent(s) 
shall mean those individuals who would qualify as an Eligible Employee s
dependent(s) under the terms of the major medical Basic Plan in which the
Eligible Employee participates, or, if applicable, Substitute Basic
Coverage. 

2.6      Disability  .   "Disability"
shall mean qualification for long term disability benefits under Section 3.1 of
the Officer Disability Plan. 

2.7      Eligible
Employee .  "Eligible Employee" shall mean an
Officer.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the CEO may, from time to
time, exclude any Officer or group of Officers from being an  Eligible Employee 
under this Plan.  Employees of a company acquired by AT T shall
not be considered an Eligible Employee unless designated as such by the
CEO. 

2.8      Employer .  "Employer"
shall mean AT T Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries. 

2.9      Executive
Officer .   Executive Officer  shall mean any executive officer
of AT T, as that term is used under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. 

2.10      Officer .  "Officer"
shall mean an individual who is designated as an officer level Employee for
compensation purposes on the records of AT T. 

2.11      Participant .   Participant 
shall mean an Eligible Employee or Retired Eligible Employee who has been
designated to participate in the Plan and his/ her Dependent(s). 

2.12      Plan
Year .     Plan
Year  shall mean the calendar year. 

2.13      Qualified
Dependent .   Qualified Dependent  shall mean a Dependent who
loses coverage under a COBRA Eligible Program due to a Qualifying
Event. 

2.14      Qualifying
Event .    Qualifying Event  shall
mean any of the following events if, but for COBRA continuation coverage, they
would result in a Participant s loss of coverage under this Plan: 

(1) 

death
      of a covered Employee; 

(2) 

termination
      (other than by reason of such Employee s gross  misconduct) of
      an Employee s employment; 

(3) 

reduction
      in hours of an Employee; 

(4) 

divorce
      or legal separation of an Employee or dissolution of an Employee s
      registered domestic
partnership; 

(5) 

an
      Employee s entitlement to Medicare benefits;
or 

(6) 

a
      Dependent child ceasing to qualify as a Dependent under a
      Program. 

2.15      Retire or
Retirement .   Retire  or "Retirement" shall mean the
termination of an Eligible Employee's employment with AT T or any of its
Subsidiaries, for reasons other than death, on or after the earlier of the
following dates:  (1) the date such Eligible Employee has attained age
55, and, for an Eligible Employee on or after January 1, 2002, has five (5)
years of service, or (2) the date the Eligible Employee has attained one of the
following combinations of age and service at termination of employment on or
after April 1, 1997:  

Net Credited Service   
               
                   Age   

25
      years or more  
                50
      or older   

30
      years or more  
                Any
    age   

2.16    SEVP-HR  .      SEVP-HR 
shall mean AT T s highest ranking Officer, specifically responsible for
human resources matters. 

2.1  7   S  ubsidiary .  "Subsidiary"
shall mean any corporation, partnership, venture or other entity in which
AT T holds, directly or indirectly, a 50% or greater ownership
interest.  The Committee may, at its sole discretion, designate any
other corporation, partnership, venture or other entity a Subsidiary for the
purpose of participating in this Plan.  Notwithstanding anything
herein to the contrary, unless designated a  Subsidiary  pursuant to the
immediately preceding sentence, Cingular Wireless LLC, Sterling Commerce, Inc.,
and their respective subsidiaries shall not be considered a Subsidiary under
this Plan. 

2.1  8   AT T .  "AT T"
shall mean AT T Inc. 

ARTICLE
3   ELIGIBILITY 

3.1      Active
Participants and their Dependents .   Each Eligible Employee
shall be eligible to participate in this Plan along with his/her Dependent(s)
beginning on the effective date of the employee becoming an Eligible
Employee. 

Upon
becoming an Eligible Employee, he/she shall have 90 days to elect to participate
in this Plan.  In order to continue participation, the Eligible
Employee must pay all applicable contributions.  If an Eligible
Employee terminates participation in this Plan at any time for any reason, that
Eligible Employee and his/her Dependent(s) shall be ineligible to participate in
the Plan at any time in the future. 

3.2      Retired
Participants and their Dependents  .   Provisions of
this Plan will continue in effect during Retirement for each Eligible Employee
and his/her Dependent(s) with respect to any Eligible Employee who became a
Participant before January 1, 1999.  Neither an Eligible Employee who
became an Eligible Employee after December 31, 1998 nor his/her Dependent(s)
shall be eligible for participation hereunder on or after such Eligible
Employee s Retirement. 

3.3      Requirement
to Enroll and Participate in Basic Plans and Medicare  .   As a condition to
participation in the Plan, each Participant must be enrolled in, paying for, and
participating in (i) the Basic Plans, or, if applicable, Substitute Basic
Coverage, and (ii) all parts of Medicare for which such Participant is eligible
and for which Medicare would be primary if enrolled therein, except for Medicare
Part D relating to prescription drug coverage. 

Notwithstanding
any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, an individual who first becomes
an Eligible Employee in the middle of a Plan Year and who is enrolled in
AT T sponsored group health plans other than the Basic Plans, will be
allowed to participate in the Plan for the remainder of the Plan Year along with
his/her Dependent(s) who are enrolled in such other AT T sponsored health
plans, as if they were participating in the Basic Plans.  At the next
group enrollment opportunity for the Basic Plans, the Eligible Employee and
his/her Dependent(s) must enroll in the Basic Plans to continue participation in
this Plan. 

ARTICLE
4   BENEFITS 

4.1      Covered
Benefits . Subject to the limitations in this Article, this Plan provides
100% payment, through reimbursement or otherwise, of all medical, dental, and
vision services not paid under the Eligible Employee s (i) Basic Plans or, if
applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage, or (ii) Medicare, provided expenses for
such services would qualify as deductible medical expenses for federal income
tax purposes, whether deducted or not. Contributions or premiums for
participation in this Plan, the Basic Plans, Medicare, or any other health plan
are not considered  services , and are therefore not eligible benefits under
this Plan. 

4.2      Benefit
Limits .  Benefits paid to any Eligible Employee or any one of
his/her Dependents under this Plan shall not exceed $50,000 per Plan Year per
individual, and benefits paid to any Eligible Employee and his/her Dependents
under this Plan shall not exceed $100,000 total per Plan Year. Amounts paid to
or on behalf of an Eligible Employee or his/her Dependent(s) under (i) the Basic
Plans, or if applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage, (ii) Medicare, or (iii) any
other AT T sponsored group health plan will not be included in these
limits. 

4.3      Priority
of Paying Covered Claims .  Claims for benefits will be applied
against the various health plans and coordinated with Medicare in the following
order: 

(1) 

Medicare,
      to the extent the Participant is eligible therefore and such claim is
      actually paid by Medicare, 

(2) 

Basic
      Plans, 

(3) 

CarePlus,
      if elected, 

(4) 

Long
      Term Care Plan, if elected, 

4.4      Substitute
Basic Coverage .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Plan to the contrary, if an Eligible Employee is eligible for participation
under this Plan during Retirement, but not eligible to participate under the
Basic Plans, the Plan shall provide medical, dental, and vision benefits for the
Eligible Employee and his/her Dependent(s) substantially equivalent to the
benefits under the Basic Plans through an insured product (hereinafter,
"Substitute Basic Coverage"). Eligibility for Substitute Basic Coverage is
conditioned upon the Eligible Employee s payment of contributions in the same
amount that a similarly situated retired Basic Plan participant is required to
pay under the Basic Plans. Such Substitute Basic Coverage shall constitute such
Eligible Employee s Basic Plans for all purposes under this Plan.  The
costs of Substitute Basic Coverage (except for the required monthly
contributions referenced in this paragraph) shall be borne by AT T, and the
costs of Substitute Basic Coverage shall not be included in the determination of
any Participant s annual Plan contribution amount as provided in Article
7. 

ARTICLE
5   TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION 

5.1      Termination
of Participation  .   Participation
will cease on the last day of the month in which one of the following conditions
occurs: 

(1)   

The
      Participant is no longer a participant in the Basic Plans
      or Substitute Basic Coverage, in which case participation ceases for
      such Participant; 

(2)    

A
      Participant eligible to enroll in Medicare is no longer a participant in
      all parts of Medicare for which such Participant is eligible to enroll and
      for which Medicare would be primary if enrolled therein, except for
      Medicare Part D relating to prescription drug coverage, in which case
      participation ceases for such
Participant; 

(3)   

The
      Eligible Employee s termination of employment for reasons other than
      Death, Disability, or Retirement, in which case participation ceases
      for the Eligible Employee and
  his/her Dependent(s); 

(4)   

The
      demotion or designation of an Eligible Employee so as to no longer be
      eligible to participate in the Plan, in which case participation ceases
      for the Eligible employee and
  his/her Dependent(s); 

(5)   

The
      Eligible Employee (or Retired Eligible Employee) engages
      in competitive activity under Article 8, in which case
      participation ceases for the Eligible Employee (or Retired Eligible
      Employee) and his/her Dependent(s);
or 

(6)   

Discontinuance
      of the Plan by AT T, or, with respect to a Subsidiary s Eligible
      Employees (or Retired Eligible Employees), such Subsidiary s failure to
      make the benefits hereunder available to Eligible Employees employed
      by it (or its Retired Eligible Employees), in which case
      participation ceases for the Eligible Employee (or Retired Eligible
      Employee) and
his/her Dependent(s). 

5.2      Dependents
Failure to Participate in Basic Plans .  If a Dependent ceases
participation under a Basic Plan or, if applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage,
such Dependent s participation under this Plan will cease with the same
effective date. 

5.3      Death .  In
the event of the Eligible Employee s (or Retired Eligible Employee s) death, the
Eligible Employee s (or Retired Eligible Employee s) Dependents may continue
participation in this Plan as follows: 

(1) 

In
      the event of the death of a Retired Eligible Employee such Retired
      Eligible Employee s Dependents may continue participation in this
      Plan for so long as such Dependents are participating in the Basic
      Plans (or, if applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage) and are paying any
      applicable contributions for this Plan as provided in Article
      7. 

(2) 

In
      the event of an in-service death of an Eligible Employee eligible to
      participate in the Plan in Retirement as provided under Article 3.2, such
      Eligible Employee s surviving Dependents may
      continue participation in this Plan for so long as such Dependents
      are participating in the Basic Plans (or, if applicable Substitute
      Basic Coverage) and are paying any applicable contributions for
      this Plan as provided in Article 7.  If a surviving spouse
      of such Eligible Employee otherwise eligible for participation in the Plan
      remarries, his/her participation will cease with the effective date of
      his/ her marriage. 

(3) 

In
      the event of an in-service death of an Eligible Employee not eligible to
      participate in the Plan in Retirement as provided in Article 3.2, such
      Eligible Employee s Dependent(s) may continue participation in this Plan
      for a 12-month period commencing the month following the month in which
      such Eligible Employee dies as long as such Dependent(s) are participating
      in the Basic Plans and are paying any applicable contributions for this
      Plan as provided in Article 7.  If the Eligible Employee s
      Dependent(s) are eligible for COBRA, they will automatically be enrolled
      in COBRA so that there is no lapse in coverage, and this 12-month coverage
      will be integrated and run concurrently with COBRA
    coverage. 

ARTICLE
6   DISABILITY 

6.1      Disability .  With
respect to any Eligible Employee who is receiving short term or long term
disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan, participation under this
Plan will be as follows: 

(1) 

The
      Eligible Employee will be eligible to participate in this Plan for as long
      as he/she receives short term or long term disability benefits under the
      Officer Disability
Plan. 

(2) 

An
      individual who became an Eligible Employee on or after  January
      1, 1999 will no longer be eligible to participate in this Plan once long
      term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan are
      discontinued, unless the Eligible Employee is otherwise eligible for
      continued benefits under this
Plan.  

(3) 

An
      Employee who became an Eligible Employee before January 1, 1999, will be
      eligible for participation in this Plan as
  follows: 

(a) 

If
      the individual is Retirement eligible at the time long term disability
      benefits under the Officer Disability Plan commence, he/she will be
      eligible to continue participation in this Plan on the same terms and
      conditions that participation would be available to such Eligible Employee
      in Retirement, regardless of his/her continued receipt of long term
      disability benefits. 

(b) 

If
      the individual is not Retirement eligible at the time long term disability
      benefits under the Officer Disability Plan commence, he/she will be
      eligible to participate in this Plan for as long as such Eligible Employee
      participates in the Basic
Plans. 

ARTICLE
7   COSTS 

7.1      Costs of
the Plan .  Except as provided below in this Article 7, costs
and expenses incurred in the operation and administration of this Plan will be
borne by AT T, and each Subsidiary shall reimburse AT T for applicable
costs and expenses attributable to Eligible Employees employed by it (and
Retired Eligible Employees formerly employed by it). 

7.2      Active
Participant  
Contributions .  An Eligible Employee electing to participate in the
Plan will pay to participate in the Plan while in active service or while
receiving short term or long term disability benefits under the Officer
Disability Plan. The contribution for participation may change annually,
effective at the beginning of each Plan Year.  Contributions to be
made by Eligible Employees electing to participate in the Plan during active
service or while receiving short term or long term disability benefits under the
Disability Plan shall be set annually by the SEVP-HR, determined in the
SEVP-HR s sole and absolute discretion.  The SEVP-HR may adopt tiered
rates for similarly situated groups of Eligible Employees based on factors such
as the number of Dependents covered or Medicare
eligibility.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, required contributions
for Executive Officers shall be approved by the Human Resources Committee of the
AT T Inc. Board of Directors. 

7.3      Retired
Eligible Employees  
Contributions .  Eligible Employees entitled to participate in
the Plan after Retirement or after termination of long term disability benefits
under the Officer Disability Plan who elect to participate will pay to
participate in the Plan. The contribution for participation may change annually,
effective at the beginning of each Plan Year.  Contributions to be made by
Eligible Employees entitled to participate in the Plan after Retirement or after
termination of long term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan
who elect to participate shall be set annually by the SEVP-HR (in his/her sole
and absolute discretion), to the extent their contributions have not previously
been provided for in a separate agreement. 

7.4      Survivor
Contributions  .
  Upon the death of an Eligible Employee the contribution percentage
paid by the surviving spouse will be equal to the contribution, adjusted (if
applicable) for factors such as the number of Dependents or Medicare eligibility
that that would have been paid by the Participant had he/she
survived.  In the event there is no surviving spouse but there are
surviving eligible Dependents, such Dependents shall pay a ratable share of the
contribution, adjusted (if applicable) for factors such as the number of
Dependents or Medicare eligibility that would have been paid by the Participant
had he/she survived. 

In order
to continue participation, the Retired Eligible Employee or his/her Dependent(s)
must pay all applicable contributions. 

If a
Retired Eligible Employee terminates participation at any time for any reason,
participation of that Retired Eligible Employee and his/her Dependent(s) may not
be reinstated for any reason. 

ARTICLE
8   COVENANT NOT TO COMPETE 

Non-Competition .  Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan, no coverage shall be provided under this Plan
with respect to any Eligible Employee who shall, without the written consent of
AT T, and while employed by AT T or any Subsidiary thereof, or within
three (3) years after termination of employment from AT T or any Subsidiary
thereof, engage in competition with AT T or any Subsidiary thereof or with
any business with which a subsidiary of AT T or an affiliated company has a
substantial interest (collectively referred to herein as "Employer
business").  For purposes of this Plan, engaging in competition with
any Employer business shall mean engaging by Eligible Employee in any business
or activity in the same geographical market where the same or substantially
similar business or activity is being carried on as an Employer
business.  Such term shall not include owning a nonsubstantial
publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that competes with an
Employer business.  However, engaging in competition with an Employer
business shall include representing or providing consulting services to, or
being an employee of, any person or entity that is engaged in competition with
any Employer business or that takes a position adverse to any Employer
business.  Accordingly, benefits shall not be provided under this Plan
if, within the time period and without the written consent specified, the
Eligible Employee either engages directly in competitive activity or in any
capacity in any location becomes employed by, associated with, or renders
service to any company, or parent or affiliate thereof, or any subsidiary of any
of them, if any of them is engaged in competition with an Employer business,
regardless of the position or duties the Eligible Employee takes and regardless
of whether or not the employing company, or the company that Eligible Employee
becomes associated with or renders service to, is itself engaged in direct
competition with an Employer business. 

ARTICLE
9  MISCELLANEOUS 

9.1      Administration .  Subject
to the terms of the Plan, the CEO or SEVP-HR shall establish such rules as are
deemed necessary for the proper administration of the Plan. AT T will
compute a "gross-up" allowance which will be paid to an Eligible Employee to
offset any income tax liabilities incurred as a result of receiving benefits
under this Plan.  

9.2      Amendments
and Termination .  This Plan may be modified or terminated at
any time in accordance with the provisions of AT T's Schedule of
Authorizations. 

9.3      Newborns'
and Mothers' Health Protection Act of 1996 .  To the extent this
Plan provides benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with
childbirth, the Plan will cover the minimum length of stay required for
deliveries (i.e., a 48-hour hospital stay after a vaginal delivery or a 96-hour
stay following a delivery by Cesarean section.)  The mother s or
newborn s attending physician, after consulting with the mother, may discharge
the mother or her newborn earlier than the minimum length of stay otherwise
required by law.  Such coverage shall be subject to all other
provisions of this Plan. 

9.4      Women's
Health and Cancer Rights Act of 1998 .  To the extent this Plan
provides benefits for mastectomies, it will provide, for an individual who is
receiving benefits in connection with a mastectomy and who elects breast
reconstruction in connection with such mastectomy, coverage for reconstruction
on the breast on which the mastectomy was performed, surgery and reconstruction
on the other breast to give a symmetrical appearance, and prosthesis and
coverage for physical complications of all stages of the mastectomy, including
lymphedemas.  Such coverage shall be subject to all other provisions
of this Plan. 

9.5      Mental
Health Parity Act of 1996 .  To the extent this Plan provides
mental health benefits other than treatment for substance or alcohol abuse, it
will not place annual or lifetime maximums for such benefits that are lower than
the annual and lifetime maximums for physical health benefits.  Such
coverage shall be subject to all other provisions of this Plan. 

9.6      Continuation
of Coverage During Family or Medical Leave .  During any period
which an Eligible Employee is on a family or medical leave as defined in the
Family or Medical Leave Act, any benefit elections in force for the Eligible
Employee shall remain in effect.  While the Eligible Employee is on
paid leave, contributions shall continue.  If the Eligible Employee is
on an unpaid leave, the Eligible Employee may elect to prepay required
contributions on a pre-tax basis before the commencement of such unpaid
leave.  Alternatively, the Eligible Employee may elect to make such
payments on an after-tax basis monthly in accordance with an arrangement that
the Plan Administrator shall provide.  If coverage is not continued
during the entire period of the family or medical leave because the Eligible
Employee declines to pay the premium, the coverage must be reinstated upon
reemployment with no exclusions or waiting periods, notwithstanding any other
provision of this Plan to the contrary. If the Eligible Employee does not return
to work upon completion of the leave, the Eligible Employee must pay the full
cost of any health care coverage that was continued on his/her behalf during the
leave.  These rules apply to the COBRA Eligible Programs. 

9.7      Rights
While on Military Leave .  Pursuant to the provisions of the
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, an Employee
on military leave will be considered to be on a Leave of Absence and will be
entitled during the leave to the health and welfare benefits that would be made
available to other similarly situated Employees if they were on a Leave of
Absence.  This entitlement will end if the Employee provides written
notice of intent not to return to work following the completion of the military
leave.  The Employee shall have the right to continue his/her
coverage, including any Dependent coverage, for the lesser of the length of the
leave or 18 months.  If the military leave is for a period of 31 days
or more, the Employee may be required to pay 102 percent of the total premium
(determined in the same manner as a COBRA continuation coverage
premium).  If coverage is not continued during the entire period of
the military leave because the Employee declines to pay the premium or the leave
extends beyond 18 months, the coverage must be reinstated upon reemployment with
no pre-existing condition exclusions (other than for service-related illnesses
or injuries) or waiting periods (other than those applicable to all eligible
Employees). 

9.8      Qualified
Medical Child Support Orders .  The Plan will comply with any
Qualified Medical Child Support Order issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction or administrative body that requires the Plan to provide medical
coverage to a Dependent child of an Eligible Employee.  The Plan
Administrator will establish reasonable procedures for determining whether a
court order or administrative decree requiring medical coverage for a Dependent
child meets the requirements for a Qualified Medical Child Support
Order.  The cost of coverage or any additional cost of such coverage,
if any, shall be borne by the Eligible Employee. 

9.9      Right of
Recovery  .   If the Plan has
made an erroneous or excess payment to any Participant, the Plan Administrator
shall be entitled to recover such excess from the individual or entity to whom
such payments were made.  The recovery of such overpayment may be made
by offsetting the amount of any other benefit or amount payable by the amount of
the overpayment under the Plan. 

ARTICLE
10   COBRA 

10.1      Continuation
of Coverage Under COBRA .  Participants shall have all COBRA
continuation rights required by federal law and all conversion
rights.  COBRA continuation coverage shall be continued as provided in
this Article 10. 

10.2      COBRA
Continuation Coverage for Terminated Participants .  A covered
Participant may elect COBRA continuation coverage, at his/her own expense, if
his participation under this Plan would terminate as a result of one of the
following Qualifying Events: an Employee s termination of employment or
reduction of hours with an Employer. 

10.3      COBRA
Continuation Coverage for Dependents .  A Qualified Dependent
may elect COBRA continuation coverage, at his/her own expense, if his/her
participation under this Plan would terminate as a result of a Qualifying
Event. 

10.4      Period of
Continuation Coverage for Covered Participants  .   A covered
Participant who qualifies for COBRA continuation coverage as a result of an
Eligible Employee s termination of employment or reduction in hours of
employment described in Subsection 10.2 may elect COBRA continuation coverage
for up to 18 months measured from the date of the Qualifying Event. 
  Coverage
under this Subsection 10.4 may not continue beyond the: 

(1)   

date
      on which the Participant s Employer ceases to maintain this
      Plan; 

(2)   

last
      day of the month for which premium payments have been made with respect to
      this Plan, if the individual fails to make premium payments on time, in
      accordance with Subsection
10.6; 

(3)   

date
      the covered Participant becomes entitled to Medicare;
  or 

(4)   

date
      the covered Participant is no longer subject to a pre-existing condition
      exclusion under the Participant's other coverage or new employer plan for
      the type of coverage available under the COBRA Eligible Program for which
      the COBRA election was
made. 

10.5      Period of
COBRA Continuation Coverage for Dependents .  If a Qualified
Dependent elects COBRA continuation coverage under a COBRA Eligible Program as a
result of the an Employee s termination of employment as described in Subsection
10.2, continuation coverage may be continued for up to 18 months measured from
the date of the Qualifying Event.  COBRA continuation coverage for all
other Qualifying Events may continue for up to 36 months. 

Continuation
coverage under this Subsection 10.5 with respect to a COBRA Eligible Program may
not continue beyond the date: 

(1)   

on
      which premium payments have not been made, in accordance with Subsection
      10.6 below; 

(2)   

the
      Participant becomes entitled to
Medicare; 

(3)   

on
      which the Employer ceases to maintain this Plan;
  or 

(4)   

the
      Participant is no longer subject to a pre-existing condition exclusion
      under the Participant s other coverage or new employer plan for the type
      of coverage available under this
Plan. 

10.6      Contribution
Requirements for COBRA Continuation Coverage .  Covered
Participants and Qualified Dependents who elect COBRA continuation coverage as a
result of a Qualifying Event will be required to pay continuation coverage
payments.  Continuation coverage payments are the payments required
for COBRA continuation coverage that is an amount equal to a reasonable estimate
of the cost to this Plan of providing coverage for all covered Participants at
the time of the Qualifying Event plus a  2% administrative
expense.  In the case of a disabled individual who receives an
additional 11-month extended coverage under COBRA, the Employer may assess up to
150% of the cost for this extended coverage period.  Such cost shall
be determined on an actuarial basis and take into account such factors as the
Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe in regulations. 

Covered
Participants and Qualified Dependents must make the continuation coverage
payment prior to the first day of the month in which such coverage will take
effect.  However, a covered Participant or Qualified Dependent has 45
days from the date of an affirmative election to pay the continuation coverage
payment for the first month's payment and the cost for the period between the
date medical coverage would otherwise have terminated due to the Qualifying
Event and the date the covered Participant and/or Qualified Dependent actually
elects COBRA continuation coverage. 

The
covered Participant and/or Qualified Dependent shall have a 30-day grace period
to make the continuation coverage payments due
thereafter.  Continuation coverage payments must be postmarked on or
before the completion of the 30-day grace period.  If continuation
coverage payments are not made on a timely basis, COBRA continuation coverage
will terminate as of the last day of the month for which timely premiums were
made.  The 30-day grace period shall not apply to the 45-day period
for the first month s payment of COBRA premiums as set out in the section
above. 

If
payment is received that is significantly less than the required continuation
coverage payment, then continuation coverage will terminate as of the last day
of the month for which premiums were paid.  A payment is considered
significantly less than the amount due if it is greater than the lesser of $50
or 10% of the required continuation coverage payment.  Upon receipt of
a continuation coverage payment that is insignificantly less than the required
amount, the Plan Administrator must notify the covered Participant or Qualified
Dependent of the amount of the shortfall and provide them with an additional
30-day grace period from the date of the notice for this payment
only. 

10.7      Limitation
on Participant's Rights to COBRA Continuation Coverage . 

(1)   

If
      a Qualified Dependent loses, or will lose medical coverage under this Plan
      as a result of divorce, legal separation, entitlement to Medicare, or
      ceasing to be a Dependent, such Qualified Dependent is responsible for
      notifying the Plan Administrator in writing within 60 days of the
      Qualifying Event.  Failure to make timely notification will
      terminate the Qualified Dependent's rights to COBRA continuation coverage
      under this Article. 

(2)   

A
      Participant must complete and return the required enrollment materials
      within 60 days from the later of (a) the date of loss of coverage, or (b)
      the date the Plan Administrator sends notice of eligibility for COBRA
      continuation coverage.  Failure to enroll for COBRA continuation
      coverage during this 60-day period will terminate all rights to COBRA
      continuation coverage under this Article.  An affirmative
      election of COBRA continuation coverage by a Participant or his/her spouse
      shall be deemed to be an election for that Participant's Dependent(s) who
      would otherwise lose coverage under the
Plan. 

10.8      Subsequent
Qualifying Event .  If a second Qualifying Event occurs during
an 18-month extension explained above, coverage may be continued for a maximum
of 36 months from the date of the first Qualifying Event.  In the
event the Dependent loses coverage due to a Qualifying Event and after such date
the Participant becomes entitled to Medicare, the Dependent shall have available
up to 36 months of coverage measured from the date of the Qualifying Event that
causes the loss of coverage.  If the Participant was entitled to
Medicare prior to the Qualifying Event, the Dependent shall have up to 36 months
of coverage measured from the date of entitlement to Medicare. 

10.9      Extension
of COBRA Continuation Period for Disabled Individuals .  The
period of continuation shall be extended to 29 months in total (measured from
the date of the Qualifying Event) in the event the individual is disabled as
determined by the Social Security laws within 60 days of the Qualifying
Event.  The individual must provide evidence to the Plan Administrator
of such Social Security determination prior to the earlier of 60 days after the
date of the Social Security determination, or the expiration of the initial 18
months of COBRA continuation coverage.  In such event, the Employer
may charge the individual up to 150% of the COBRA cost of the
coverage. 

ARTICLE
11   PRIVACY OF MEDICAL INFORMATION 

11.1      Definitions .  For
purposes of this Article 11, the following defined terms shall have the meaning
assigned to such terms in this subsection: 

(1)            Business
Associate  shall mean an outside entity or person that   performs
administrative or other functions on behalf of the Plan; 

(2)            Health
Care Operations  shall mean activities that involve, but are   not
limited to, quality assessment and improvement, the   assessment
of health care professionals, disease management,   case
management, legal services, benefits fraud and abuse   investigations,
and business planning and development (including   cost-management
and planning analyses).  Health Care   Operations
also include, but are not limited to, general health care   plan
administrative functions such as management activities   relating
to compliance with HIPAA s administrative simplification   requirements,
customer service involving the provision of data   analysis
for the Plan Sponsor of the HIPAA Plan and other entities   whose
employees participate in the HIPAA Plan, resolution of   internal grievances
and due diligence in connection with the sale   or
transfer of assets to a potential successor in interest if the   potential
successor is a covered entity, or will become a covered   entity,
under HIPAA; 

(3)            HIPAA 
shall mean the Health Insurance Portability and   Accountability
Act of 1996 as amended from time to time. 

(4)            Payment 
shall mean any activities performed that involve making   benefit
determinations and payment. These activities include, but are not limited to,
billing, reviews for medical necessity, claims management, coordination of
benefits, adjudication of health benefits claims (including appeals and other
payment-related disputes), subrogation, plan reimbursement, investigations of
potential fraud, determining employee contributions, reviews of appropriateness
of care, preauthorizations and utilization reviews; 

(5)            Protected
Health Information  or  PHI  shall mean individually    identifiable
information created or retained by the HIPAA Plan beginning on or after April
14, 2003 which pertains to a person s past, present or future physical or mental
health, the health care the person is receiving or has received in the past and
all past, present or future Payments for the person s health
care; 

(6)            Treatment 
means the provision, coordination or management of   health
care and related services by one or more health care providers. This category
includes, but is not limited to, consultations and referrals between health care
providers, the coordination or management of health care by a health care
provider with a third party and the referral of a patient for health care from
one health care provider to another. 

11.2      Privacy
Provisions Relating to Protected Health Information  
(   PHI   ) .  The
Plan and its Business Associates (collectively referred to in this Article 11 as
a  HIPAA Plan ) shall use and disclose PHI to the extent permitted by, and in
accordance with, HIPAA.  Specifically, each HIPAA Plan will use and
disclose PHI for Treatment, Payment and Health Care Operations. 

11.3      Disclosure
of De-Identified or Summary Health Information .  The HIPAA
Plan, or, with respect to the HIPAA Plan, a health insurance issuer, may
disclose de-identified or summary health information to the Plan Sponsor of the
HIPAA Plan (and its affiliates) if such entity requests the de-identified or
summary health information for the purpose of: 

(1)           Obtaining
premium bids from health plans for providing health   insurance
coverage under the HIPAA Plan; 

(2)           Modifying,
amending or terminating the group health benefits   under the
HIPAA Plan; 

In
addition, the HIPAA Plan or a health insurance insurer with respect to the HIPAA
Plan may disclose to the Plan Sponsor of the HIPAA Plan (or its affiliates)
information on whether an individual is participating in the group health
benefits provided by the HIPAA Plan or is enrolled in, or has ceased enrollment
with health insurance offered by the HIPAA Plan. 

11.4      The HIPAA Plan Will Use and
Disclose   PHI   as Required by
Law     or as
Permitted by the Authorization of the Participant or
Beneficiary . 

Upon
submission of an authorization signed by a Participant, beneficiary, subscriber
or personal representative that meets HIPAA requirements, the HIPAA Plan will
disclose PHI to a Company (or affiliate) sponsored pension plan, long term care
plan, disability plan or other benefit plan sponsored by the Company (or an
affiliate) with a need to access this PHI for purposes related to such benefit
plan s administration. Authorizations will also be honored when provided to the
HIPAA Plan with respect to job accommodation requests, Family Medical Leave Act
requests, drug/substance abuse testing, fitness for duty exams, and workers
compensation claims. 

In
addition, PHI will be disclosed to the extent permitted or required by law,
without the submission of an authorization form. 

11.5      Disclosure
of   PHI   to the
Plan Sponsor  .   The HIPAA Plan
will disclose information to the Plan Sponsor only upon certification from the
Plan Sponsor that the HIPAA Plan documents have been amended to incorporate the
assurances provided below. 

The Plan
Sponsor agrees to: 

(1) 

not
      use or further disclose PHI other than as permitted or required by the
      HIPAA Plan document or as required by
law; 

(2) 

ensure
      that any affiliates or agents, including a subcontractor, to whom the Plan
      Sponsor provides PHI received from the HIPAA Plan, agrees to the same
      restrictions and conditions that apply to the Plan Sponsor with respect to
      such PHI; 

(3) 

not
      use or disclose PHI for employment-related actions and decisions unless
      authorized by the individual to whom the PHI
  relates; 

(4) 

not
      use or disclose PHI in connection with any other benefits or employee
      benefit plan of the Plan Sponsor or its affiliates unless permitted by the
      Plan or authorized by an individual to whom the PHI
    relates; 

(5) 

report
      to the Plan any PHI use or disclosure that is inconsistent with the uses
      or disclosures provided for of which it becomes
  aware; 

(6) 

make
      PHI available to an individual in accordance with HIPAA s access
      rules; 

(7) 

make
      PHI available for amendment and incorporate any amendments to PHI in
      accordance with HIPAA; 

(8) 

make
      PHI available for amendment and incorporate any amendments to PHI in
      accordance with HIPAA; 

(9) 

make
      internal practices, books and records relating to the use and disclosure
      of PHI received from the HIPAA Plan available to the Secretary of the
      United States Department of Health and Human Resources for purposes of
      determining the Plan s compliance with HIPAA;
  and 

(10) 

if
      feasible, return or destroy all PHI received from the HIPAA Plan that the
      Plan Sponsor still maintains in any form, and retain no copies of such PHI
      when no longer needed for the purpose for which disclosure was made (or if
      return or destruction is not feasible, limit further uses and disclosures
      to those purposes that make the return or destruction
      infeasible.) 

11.6      Separation
Between the Plan Sponsor and the HIPAA Plan  .   In accordance
with HIPAA, only the following employees and Business Associate personnel shall
be given access to PHI: 

(1) 

employees
      of the AT T Benefits and/or AT T Executive Compensation
      organizations responsible for administering group health plan benefits
      under the HIPAA Plan, including those employees whose functions in the
      regular course of business include Payment, Health Care Operations or
      other matters pertaining to the health care programs under a HIPAA
      Plan; 

(2) 

employees
      who supervise the work of the employees described in (1),
      above; 

(3) 

support
      personnel, including other employees outside of the AT T Benefits or
      AT T Executive Compensation organizations whose duties require them to
      rule on health plan-related appeals or perform functions concerning the
      HIPAA Plan; 

(4) 

investigatory
      personnel to the limited extent that such PHI is necessary to conduct
      investigations of possible
fraud; 

(5) 

outside
      and in-house legal counsel providing counsel to the HIPAA
      Plan; 

(6) 

consultants
      providing advice concerning the administration of the HIPAA Plan;
      and 

(7) 

the
      employees of Business Associates charged with providing services to the
      HIPAA Plan. 

The
persons identified above shall have access to and use PHI to the extent that
such access and use is necessary for the administration of group health benefits
under a HIPAA Plan.  If these persons do not comply with this Plan
document, the Plan Sponsor shall provide a mechanism for resolving issues of
noncompliance, including disciplinary sanctions.

</EX-10.H>

<EX-10.K>
 12
 ex10k.htm
 ADMINISTRATIVE PLAN

ex10k.htm 

Exhibit
10-k 

Effective
January 1, 2009 

Administrative
Plan 

The
benefits under this Plan are offered by AT T Inc. ( AT T ) to persons
who have been identified by AT T as executive officers under Rule 3b-7 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Executive Officers ). 

Administration of
Plan .  The Plan or the benefits hereunder may be modified or
terminated by the Human Resources Committee in its sole discretion at any
time. 

Except to
the extent otherwise provided herein, the Vice President responsible for Human
Resources (or the successor to such position) shall be the Administrator of the
Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and apply its provisions
in accordance with its terms.  The Administrator, in his or her sole
discretion, may establish, adopt or revise rules, as he or she may deem
necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, including the
allocation or limitation of benefits. 

The
Administrator may adopt another plan, not to exceed the benefits included
herein, for the benefit of such other employees or former employees of Employers
as the Administrator may determine in his or her sole discretion, on such terms
and conditions as the Administrator shall determine.  The
Administrator may, from time to time, revise the plan solely to increase the
financial limits on benefits, not to exceed the corresponding proportional
increase in the consumer price index from January 1, 2003, through the date
of change. 

All
decisions of the Administrator shall be final and binding unless the Board of
Directors or its delegate should determine otherwise. 

No Employment
Rights .  Nothing herein shall constitute a contract of
continuing employment or in any manner obligate AT T or any Executive
Officer to continue the employment relationship of, or obligate an Executive
Officer to continue in the service of AT T or any Affiliate. 

Non-Transferability .  No
recipient of benefits under this Plan nor any other person shall have any right
to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber,
transfer, hypothecate or convey any of the benefits hereunder, or any part
thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be
unassignable and non-transferable. 

Notice .  Any
notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrator under the Plan
shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by certified mail,
to the principal office of AT T, directed to the attention of the Senior
Executive Vice President-Human Resources.  Any notice required or
permitted to be given to any other person shall be sufficient if in writing and
hand delivered, or sent by certified mail, to the person at the person's last
known mailing address as reflected on the records of his or her employing
company.  Notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or,
if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the
receipt for certification. 

Validity .  In
the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the
same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this plan. 

Applicable
Law .  This Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of Texas to the extent not preempted by the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder
("ERISA"). 

Automobile .  Each
Executive Officer may receive the use of a four-door automobile or an automobile
allowance and expenses associated with the operation of the
automobile.  The Administrator shall determine the amount of the
allowance for each Executive Officer provided that the allowance shall not
exceed $2,000 per month. 

Communications .  Each
Executive Officer may receive reasonable communications services including
local, long distance, DSL, Internet, wireless, satellite television/video and
related equipment. 

Financial
Counseling.   Executive Officers may receive income tax
preparation services and financial planning services from a list of designated
providers not to exceed $14,000 per year. 

Estate
Planning.   Executive Officers may receive estate planning
documentation services not to exceed $10,000 per year.  The Estate
Planning limit restarts in the even of a company-initiated relocation to another
state. 

Clubs.   Executive
Officers may receive initiation fees, dues, assessments and other charges for
reasonable memberships as approved by the CEO or the Administrator, in each case
in his or her sole discretion. AT T does not reimburse for dues, initiation
fees or other expenses incurred in connection with a membership in a club that
discriminates in its membership policies based on race, creed, gender or ethnic
origin.  The Administrator shall report annually to the Human
Resources Committee as to the usage of this benefit by the Chief Executive
Officer and to the Chief Executive Officer on the usage by all other Executive
Officers. 

Executive
Protection .  Based upon the concern for the security of
Executive Officers, the need to secure their optimum availability for business
purposes and to permit uninterrupted communications between them, the Executive
Officers are authorized to receive home security services, and, whenever
feasible, to use AT T provided aircraft in connection with business travel
and to use such aircraft for the personal travel of Executive Officers where the
Chief Executive Officer, in his or her sole discretion, deems such use
appropriate because of similar considerations. 

Retirement.   Upon
the Retirement of an Executive Officer , he or she may receive up to an
additional amount for financial consulting reasonably in connection with his/her
Retirement, as follows:  In any given year, 1. for retirements
occurring from January 1 through June 30 (inclusive), the amount will be $20,000
in the calendar year of retirement; 2. for retirements occurring from July 1
through November 30 (inclusive), the amount will be $10,000 in the calendar year
of retirement and $10,000 in the immediately following calendar year; and 3. For
retirements occurring from December 1 through December 31 (inclusive), the
amount will be $20,000 in the year following retirement.  After the
Retirement of an Executive Officer he or she shall continue to receive the
communications, financial counseling and estate planning benefits until his or
her death.  After the death of an Executive Officer or Retired
Executive Officer, his or her survivor shall receive the communications benefit
for 6 billing cycles and shall receive the financial counseling and estate
planning benefits for the remainder of the year of death and the immediately
following calendar year. 

Taxes.   Each
recipient of benefits under this Plan shall receive an amount equal to that
necessary to offset the Federal, state and local income taxes, as well as
associated employment taxes, of the recipient (including taxes on tax
reimbursements) resulting from the benefits in this Plan, other than (1) the
monthly automobile allowance for Executive Officers; and (2) personal use of
aircraft. 

Annual
Limits.  Expenses will be charged against the annual limits for the
calendar year based on the date of the invoice. 

Administrative
Plan Addendum for Calendar Years 2005 - 2008 

Estate
Planning 

The
annual limit for Estate Planning services provided under this Plan for the years
2005 through 2008 is $25,000. 

The
Estate Planning limit restarts in the event of a company-initiated relocation to
another state. 

Financial
Consulting in Connection with Retirement 

For
Retirements with a pension effective date from January 1, 2005 through December
31, 2007, the annual limit is based on the participant's distribution election
under the  Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP"), as follows
: 

For
Retirements with a pension effective date from January 1, 2008 through December
31, 2008, the annual limit shall be as follows: 

</EX-10.K>

<EX-10.N>
 13
 ex10n.htm
 1996 STOCK AND INCENTIVE PLAN

ex10n.htm 

Exhibit 10-n  

1996
STOCK AND INCENTIVE PLAN 

Plan
Effective:  January 1, 1996 

      Revisions
Effective:  November 2, 2002 

AT T
INC. 

      1996
STOCK AND INCENTIVE PLAN 

Article
      1 

Establishment and
      Purpose . 

1.1 

Establishment of the
      Plan .  AT T Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
       Company  or  AT T ), hereby establishes an incentive compensation
      plan (the  Plan ), as set forth in this document. No awards may be granted
      under this Plan on or after April 27,
2001. 

1.2 

Purpose of the
      Plan .  The purpose of the Plan is to promote the success
      and enhance the value of the Company by linking the personal interests of
      Participants to those of the Company s shareowners, and by providing
      Participants with an incentive for outstanding
  performance. 

The Plan
is further intended to attract and retain the services of Participants upon
whose judgment, interest, and special efforts the successful operation of
AT T and its subsidiaries is dependent. 

1.3 

Effective Date of the
      Plan .  The Plan shall become effective on January 1,
      1996; however, grants may be made before that time subject to becoming
      effective on or after that date.  During the first year this
      Plan is effective, Awards shall be issued only to the extent the potential
      payout of Shares shall not exceed 10% of the Shares approved for issuance
      under this Plan. 

Article
      2 

Definitions . 

Whenever
used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below
and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is
capitalized: 

(a)   Award 
means, individually or collectively, a grant under this Plan of Nonqualified
Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Performance Units, or
Performance Shares. 

(b)   Award
Agreement  means an agreement which may be entered into by each Participant and
the Company, setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted
to Participants under this Plan. 

(c)   Board 
or  Board of Directors  means the AT T Board of Directors. 

(d)   Cause  shall
mean willful and gross misconduct on the part of a Participant that is
materially and demonstrably detrimental to the Company or any Subsidiary as
determined by the Company in its sole discretion. 

(e)   Change
in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any  person  (as such term
is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the shareowners of the
Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the
Company, is or becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under
said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing
twenty percent (20%) or more of the total voting power represented by the
Company's then outstanding voting securities, or (ii) during any period of two
(2) consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period
constitute the Board of Directors of the Company and any new Director whose
election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's
shareowners was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Directors
then still in office who either were Directors at the beginning of the period or
whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for
any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the shareowners of the
Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other
corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the
voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted
into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least eighty percent (80%) of
the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or
such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or
consolidation, or the shareowners of the Company approve a plan of complete
liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the
Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets. 

(f)  Code 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time. 

(g)   Committee 
means the committee or committees, as specified in Article 3, appointed by the
Board to administer the Plan with respect to grants of Awards. 

(h)  Director 
means any individual who is a member of the AT T Board of
Directors. 

(i)    Disability 
shall mean absence of an Employee from work under the relevant Company or
Subsidiary disability plan. 

(j)    Employee 
means any management employee of the Company or of one of the Company's
Subsidiaries.   Employment  means the employment of an Employee by the
Company or one of its Subsidiaries.  Directors who are not otherwise
employed by the Company shall not be considered Employees under this
Plan. 

(k)   Exchange
Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or
any successor Act thereto. 

(l)    Exercise
Price  means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant
pursuant to an Option, as determined by the Committee. 

(m) 
 Fair Market Value  shall mean the closing price on the New York Stock
Exchange ( NYSE ) for Shares on the relevant date, or if such date was not a
trading day, the next preceding trading date, all as determined by the
Company.  A trading day is any day that the Shares are traded on the
NYSE.  In lieu of the foregoing, the Committee may select any other
index or measurement to determine the Fair Market Value of Shares under the
Plan. 

(n) 
 Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO  means an option to purchase Shares from
AT T, granted under this Plan, which is designated as an Incentive Stock
Option and is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the
Code. 

(o) 
 Insider  shall mean an Employee who is, on the relevant date, an officer,
director, or ten percent (10%) beneficial owner of the Company, as those terms
are defined under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 

(p)   Key
Executive Officer Short Term Award  means a Performance Unit expressed in
dollars. 

(q)   Nonqualified
Stock Option  or  NQSO  means the option to purchase Shares from AT T,
granted under this Plan, which is not intended to be an Incentive Stock
Option. 

(r)    Option 
or  Stock Option  shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock
Option, and shall include a Restoration Option. 

(s)    Participant 
shall mean an Employee or former Employee that participates in this
Plan. 

(t)     Performance
Unit  and  Performance Share  shall each mean an Award granted to an Employee
pursuant to Article 8 herein. 

(u)    Plan 
means this 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.  The Plan may also be
referred to as the  AT T 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan  or as the  AT T
Inc. 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.  

(v)  
 Restricted Stock  means an Award of Stock granted to an Employee pursuant to
Article 7 herein. 

(w)   Restriction
Period  means the period during which Shares of Restricted Stock are subject to
restrictions or conditions under Article 7. 

(x)    Retirement 
or to  Retire  shall mean the termination of a Participant s employment with the
Company or one of its Subsidiaries, for any reason other than death, Disability
or for Cause, on or after the earlier of the following dates, or as otherwise
provided by the Committee: (1) for Officer Level Employees (Participants deemed
officer level Employees for compensation purposes as indicated on the records of
AT T), the date the Participant attains age 55 (individuals who become
Officer Level Employees on or after January 1, 2002, must also have five (5)
years of service); or (2) the date the Participant has attained one of the
following combinations of age and service at termination of employment on or
after April 1, 1997, except as otherwise indicated below: 

Net Credited
      Service  

Age  

With
respect to a Participant who is granted an EMP Service Pension under and
pursuant to the provisions of the AT T Pension Benefit Plan   Nonbargained
Program upon termination of employment, the terms  Retirement  or to  Retire 
shall include such Participant s termination of employment. 

Termination Under
EPR .  In determining whether an Eligible Employee s termination
of employment under the Enhanced Pension and Retirement Program ( EPR ) is a
Retirement for purposes of this Plan, five years shall be added to each of age
and net credited service ( NCS ).  If with such additional age and
years of service, (1) an Eligible Employee upon such termination of employment
under EPR is Retirement Eligible according to the AT T Supplemental
Retirement Income Plan ( SRIP ) or (2) the Eligible Employee upon such
termination of employment under EPR has attained one of the following
combinations of age and service, 

Actual NCS + 5
      Years  

Actual Age + 5 Years 

then such
termination of employment shall be a Retirement for all purposes under this Plan
and the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to the treatment under this Plan
afforded in the case of a termination of employment which is a
Retirement. 

(y)  Rotational
Work Assignment Company ( RWAC ) shall mean any entity with which AT T Inc.
or any of its Subsidiaries may enter into an agreement to provide an employee
for a rotational work assignment. 

(z)   Shares 
or  Stock  means the shares of common stock of the Company. 

(aa)   Subsidiary 
shall mean any corporation in which the Company owns directly, or indirectly
through subsidiaries, more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting
power of all classes of Stock, or any other entity (including, but not limited
to, partnerships and joint ventures) in which the Company owns more than fifty
percent (50%) of the combined equity thereof. 

(bb)  Window
Period  means the period beginning on the third business day following the date
of public release of the Company's quarterly sales and earnings information, and
ending on the twelfth business day following such date. 

Article
      3 

Administration . 

3.1 

The
      Committee .  Administration of the Plan shall be
      bifurcated as follows: 

(a)  With
respect to Insiders, the Plan and all Awards hereunder shall be administered
only by the Human Resources Committee of the Board or such other Committee as
may be appointed by the Board for this purpose (the  Disinterested Committee ),
where each Director on such Disinterested Committee is a  Disinterested Person 
(or any successor designation for determining who may administer plans,
transactions or awards exempt under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act), as that
term is used in Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, as that rule may be modified
from time to time. 

(b) 
The Disinterested Committee and such other Committee as the Board may create, if
any, specifically to administer the Plan with respect to non-Insiders (the
 Non-Insider Committee ) shall each have full authority to administer the Plan
and all Awards hereunder with respect to all persons who are not Insiders,
except as otherwise provided herein or by the Board.  Either Committee
may be replaced by the Board at any time. 

3.2   

Authority of the
      Committee . The Committee shall have full power, except as
      limited by law and subject to the provisions herein, in its sole and
      exclusive discretion: to grant Awards; to select the recipients of Awards;
      to determine the eligibility of a person to participate in the Plan or to
      receive a particular Award; to determine the sizes and types of Awards; to
      determine the terms and conditions of such Awards in a manner consistent
      with the Plan; to construe and interpret the Plan and any agreement or
      instrument entered into under the Plan; to establish, amend, or waive
      rules and regulations for the Plan's administration; and (subject to the
      provisions of Article 13 herein) to amend the terms and conditions of any
      outstanding Award to the extent such terms and conditions are within the
      discretion of the Committee as provided in the Plan.  Further,
      the Committee shall make all other determinations in its discretion which
      may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the
      Plan. 

References
to determinations or other actions by the Company, herein, shall mean actions
authorized by the Committee, the Chairman of the Board of the Company, the
Senior Executive Vice President of the Company in charge of Human Resources or
their respective successors or duly authorized delegates, in each case in the
discretion of such person. 

All
determinations and decisions made by the Company pursuant to the provisions of
the Plan, and all related orders and resolutions of the Board shall be final,
conclusive, and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders,
Employees, Participants, and their estates and beneficiaries. 

Article
      4 

Shares Subject to the
      Plan . 

4.1 

Number of
      Shares .  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3
      herein, the number of Shares available for grant under the Plan shall not
      exceed 60 million Shares of Stock.  No more than 10% of the
      Shares approved for issuance under this Plan may be Shares of Restricted
      Stock.  No more than 40% of the Shares approved for issuance
      under this Plan may be issued to Participants as a result of Performance
      Share or Restricted Stock Awards.  The Shares granted under this
      Plan may be either authorized but unissued or reacquired
      Shares.  The Disinterested Committee shall have full discretion
      to determine the manner in which Shares available for grant are counted in
      this Plan. 

Without
limiting the discretion of the Committee under this section, unless otherwise
provided by the Committee, the following rules will apply for purposes of the
determination of the number of Shares available for grant under the Plan or
compliance with the foregoing limits: 

(a)  The
grant of a Stock Option or a Restricted Stock Award shall reduce the Shares
available for grant under the Plan by the number of Shares subject to such
Award.  However, to the extent the Participant uses previously owned
Shares to pay the Exercise Price or any taxes, or Shares are withheld to pay
taxes, these Shares shall be available for regrant under the Plan. 

(b)  With
respect to Performance Shares, the number of Performance Shares granted under
the Plan shall be deducted from the number of Shares available for grant under
the Plan. The number of Performance Shares which cannot be, or are not,
converted into Shares and distributed (including deferrals) to the Participant
(after any applicable tax withholding) following the end of the Performance
Period shall increase the number of Shares available for regrant under the Plan
by an equal amount. 

(c) With
respect to Performance Units representing a fixed dollar amount that may only be
settled in cash, the Performance Units Award shall not affect the number of
Shares available under the Plan. 

4.2 

Lapsed
      Awards .  If any Award granted under this Plan is
      canceled, terminates, expires, or lapses for any reason, Shares subject to
      such Award shall be again available for the grant of an Award under the
      Plan. 

4.3 

Adjustments in
      Authorized Plan Shares .  In the event of any merger,
      reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, separation, liquidation,
      Stock dividend, split-up, Share combination, or other change in the
      corporate structure of the Company affecting the Shares, an adjustment
      shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered
      under the Plan (including individual limits), and in the number and class
      of and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the
      Plan, and/or the number of outstanding Options, Shares of Restricted
      Stock, and Performance Shares constituting outstanding Awards, as may be
      determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole
      discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of
  rights. 

Article
      5 

Eligibility and
      Participation . 

5.1 

Eligibility .  All
      management Employees are eligible to participate in this
    Plan. 

5.2 

Actual
      Participation .  Subject to the provisions of the Plan,
      the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible Employees,
      those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and
      amount of each Award.  No Employee is entitled to receive an
      Award unless selected by the
Committee. 

Article
      6 

Stock
      Options . 

6.1 

Grant of
      Options .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the
      Plan, Options may be granted to Employees at any time and from time to
      time, and under such terms and conditions, as shall be determined by the
      Committee.  In addition, the Committee may, from time to time,
      provide for the payment of dividend equivalents on Options, prospectively
      and/or retroactively, on such terms and conditions as the Committee may
      require.  The Committee shall have discretion in determining the
      number of Shares subject to Options granted to each Employee; provided,
      however, that the maximum number of Shares subject to Options which may be
      granted to any single Employee during any calendar year shall not exceed
      2% of the Shares approved for issuance under this Plan.  The
      Committee may grant ISOs, NQSOs, or a combination thereof; provided,
      however, that no ISO may be issued after January 1,
      2006.   The Committee may authorize the automatic grant of
      additional Options ( Restoration Options ) when a Participant exercises
      already outstanding Options, or options granted under a prior option plan
      of the Company, on such terms and conditions as it shall
      determine.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the
      number of Restoration Options granted to a Participant with respect to the
      exercise of an option (including an Option under this Plan) shall not
      exceed the number of Shares delivered by the Participant in payment of the
      Exercise Price of such option, and/or in payment of any tax withholding
      resulting from such exercise, and any Shares which are withheld to satisfy
      withholding tax liability arising out of such exercise.  A
      Restoration Option shall have an Exercise Price of not less than 100% of
      the per Share Fair Market Value on the date of grant of such Restoration
      Option, and shall be subject to all the terms and conditions of the
      original grant, including the expiration date, and such other terms and
      conditions as the Committee in its sole discretion shall
      determine. 

6.2 

Form of
      Issuance .  Each Option grant may be issued in the form of
      an Award Agreement and/or may be recorded on the books and records of the
      Company for the account of the Participant. If an Option is not issued in
      the form of an Award Agreement, then the Option shall be deemed granted as
      determined by the Committee.  The terms and conditions of an
      Option shall be set forth in the Award Agreement, in the notice of the
      issuance of the grant, or in such other documents as the Committee shall
      determine.  Such terms and conditions shall include the Exercise
      Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which an Option
      pertains (unless otherwise provided by the Committee, each Option may be
      exercised to purchase one Share), and such other provisions as the
      Committee shall determine, including, but not limited to whether the
      Option is intended to be an ISO or a
NQSO. 

6.3 

Exercise
      Price .  Unless a greater Exercise Price is determined by
      the Committee, the Exercise Price for each Option Awarded under this Plan
      shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a
      Share on the date the Option is
granted. 

6.4 

Duration of
      Options .  Each Option shall expire at such time as the
      Committee shall determine at the time of grant (which duration may be
      extended by the Committee); provided, however, that no Option shall be
      exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date of its
      grant. 

6.5 

Vesting of
      Options .  Options shall vest at such times and under such
      terms and conditions as determined by the Committee; provided, however,
      unless a later vesting period is provided by the Committee at or before
      the grant of an Option, one-third of the Options will vest on each of the
      first three anniversaries of the grant; if one Option remains after
      equally dividing the grant by three, it will vest on the first anniversary
      of the grant, if two Options remain, then one will vest on each of the
      first two anniversaries.  The Committee shall have the right to
      accelerate the vesting of any Option; however, the Chairman of the Board
      or the Senior Vice President-Human Resources, or their respective
      successors, or such other persons designated by the Committee, shall have
      the authority to accelerate the vesting of Options for any Participant who
      is not an Insider. 

6.6 

Exercise of
      Options . Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at
      such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the
      Committee or the Board shall in each instance approve, which need not be
      the same for each grant or for each Participant. Exercises of Options may
      be effected only on days and during the hours that the New York Stock
      Exchange is open for regular trading.  The Company may further
      change or limit the times or days Options may be exercised.  If
      an Option expires on a day or at a time when exercises are not permitted,
      then the Options may be exercised no later than the immediately preceding
      date and time that the Options were
exercisable. 

Options
shall be exercised by providing notice to the designated agent selected by the
Company (if no such agent has been designated, then to the Company), in the
manner and form determined by the Company, which notice shall be irrevocable,
setting forth the exact number of Shares with respect to which the Option is
being exercised and including with such notice payment of the Exercise
Price.  When Options have been transferred, the Company or its
designated agent may require appropriate documentation that the person or
persons exercising the Option, if other than the Participant, has the right to
exercise the Option.   No Option may be exercised with respect to
a fraction of a Share. 

6.7 

Payment .  The
      Exercise Price shall be paid in full at the time of
      exercise.  No Shares shall be issued or transferred until full
      payment has been received therefor. 

Payment
may be made: 

(a) in
cash, or 

(b) unless
otherwise provided by the Committee at any time, and subject to such additional
terms and conditions and/or modifications as the Committee or the Company may
impose from time to time, and further subject to suspension or termination of
this provision by the Committee or Company at any time, by: 

(i)                 delivery
of Shares of Stock owned by the Participant in partial (if in partial payment,
then together with cash) or full payment; provided, however, as a condition to
paying any part of the Exercise Price in Stock, at the time of exercise of the
Option, the Participant must establish to the satisfaction of the Company that
the Stock tendered to the Company must have been held by the Participant for a
minimum of six (6) months preceding the tender; or 

(ii)                 if
the Company has designated a stockbroker to act as the Company s agent to
process Option exercises, issuance of an exercise notice together with
instructions to such stockbroker irrevocably instructing the
stockbroker:  (A) to immediately sell (which shall include an exercise
notice that becomes effective upon execution of a sell order) a sufficient
portion of the Shares to pay the Exercise Price of the Options being exercised
and the required tax withholding, and (B) to deliver on the settlement date the
portion of the proceeds of the sale equal to the Exercise Price and tax
withholding to the Company.  In the event the stockbroker sells any
Shares on behalf of a Participant, the stockbroker shall be acting solely as the
agent of the Participant, and the Company disclaims any responsibility for the
actions of the stockbroker in making any such sales.  No Stock shall
be issued until the settlement date and until the proceeds (equal to the Option
Price and tax withholding) are paid to the Company. 

If
payment is made by the delivery of Shares of Stock, the value of the Shares
delivered shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the day
preceding the date of exercise of the Option. 

Restricted
Stock may not be used to pay the Option Price. 

6.8 

Termination of
      Employment . 

Unless
otherwise provided by the Committee, the following limitations on exercise of
Options shall apply upon termination of Employment: 

(a)   Termination by Death or
Disability .  In the event the Employment of a Participant shall
terminate by reason of death or Disability, all outstanding Options granted to
that Participant shall immediately vest as of the date of termination of
Employment and may be exercised, if at all, no more than three (3) years from
the date of the termination of Employment, unless the Options, by their terms,
expire earlier.  However, in the event the Participant was eligible to
Retire at the time of termination of Employment, notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Options may be exercised, if at all, no more than five (5) years from the
date of the termination of Employment, unless the Options, by their terms,
expire earlier. 

(b)   Termination for
Cause .  If the Employment of a Participant shall be terminated
by the Company for Cause, all outstanding Options held by the Participant shall
immediately be forfeited to the Company and no additional exercise period shall
be allowed, regardless of the vested status of the Options. 

(c)   Retirement or Other
Termination of Employment .  If the Employment of a Participant
shall terminate for any reason other than the reasons set forth in (a) or (b),
above: 

(i)         
If upon the Participant's termination of Employment, the Participant is not an
EPR Terminee (as that term is defined in the AT T Pension Benefit Plan or
the Ameritech Management Pension Plan), but is eligible to Retire (and if the
Participant is an officer level employee for compensation purposes as determined
by AT T, the employee must also be age 55 or older at termination of
Employment), then all outstanding unvested Options granted to that Participant
shall immediately vest as of the date of the Participant's termination of
Employment; provided, however, this vesting provision shall not apply to an
Option granted prior to September 28, 2001, unless and except for those Options
outstanding as of September 27, 2001, that have an Exercise Price equal to or
more than the Fair Market Value of Stock on such date; 

(ii)         
All outstanding Options which are vested as of the effective date of termination
of Employment may be exercised, if at all, no more than five (5) years from the
date of termination of Employment if the Participant is eligible to Retire, or
one (1) year from the date of the termination of Employment if the Participant
is not eligible to Retire, as the case may be, unless in either case the
Options, by their terms, expire earlier; and 

(iii)                   
In the event of the death of the Participant after termination of Employment,
this paragraph (c) shall still apply and not paragraph (a), above. 

(d)    Options not Vested at
Termination .  Except as provided in paragraph (a), above, all
Options held by the Participant which are not vested on or before the effective
date of termination of Employment shall immediately be forfeited to the Company
(and shall once again become available for grant under the Plan). 

(e)   Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, establish different
terms and conditions pertaining to the effect of termination of Employment, but
no such modification shall shorten the terms of Options issued prior to such
modification. 

6.9 

Employee
      Transfers .  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of
      employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its
      Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company or a
      Subsidiary and a RWAC, to the extent the period of employment at a RWAC is
      equal to or less than five (5) years, shall not be deemed a termination of
      Employment.  Provided, however, for purposes of this Article 6,
      termination of employment with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer to the
      Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a termination of
      Employment as that term is used herein.  Similarly, termination
      of an entity s status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall be deemed a
      termination of Employment of any Participants employed by such Subsidiary
      or RWAC. 

6.10 

Restrictions on
      Exercise and Transfer of Options .  Unless otherwise
      provided by the Committee: 

(a)  During
the Participant s lifetime, the Participant s Options shall be exercisable only
by the Participant or by the Participant s guardian or legal
representative.  After the death of the Participant, except as
otherwise provided by AT T s Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, as
the same may be amended from time to time, an Option shall only be exercised by
the holder thereof (including, but not limited to, an executor or administrator
of a decedent s estate) or his or her guardian or legal
representative. 

(b)  No
Option shall be transferable except: (a) in the case of the Participant, only
upon the Participant s death and in accordance with the Company's Rules for
Employee Beneficiary Designations, as the same may be amended from time to time;
and (b) in the case of any holder after the Participant s death, only by will or
by the laws of descent and distribution. 

6.11   

Competition and
      Solicitation .  In the event a Participant directly or
      indirectly, engages in competitive activity, or has become associated
      with, employed by, controls, or renders service to any business that is
      engaged in competitive activity, with (i) the Company, (ii) any
      Subsidiary, or (iii) any business in which any of the foregoing have a
      substantial interest, or if the Participant attempts, directly or
      indirectly, to induce any employee of the Company or a Subsidiary to be
      employed or perform services elsewhere without the permission of the
      Company, then the Company may (i) cancel any Option granted to such
      Participant, whether or not vested, in whole or in part; and/or (ii)
      rescind any exercise of the Participant s Options that occurred on or
      after that date six months prior to engaging in such activity, in which
      case the Participant shall pay the Company the gain realized or received
      upon such exercise of Options.   Has become associated with 
      shall include, among other things, beneficial ownership of 1/10 of 1% or
      more of a business engaged in competitive activity.  The
      determination of whether a Participant has engaged in any such activity
      and whether to cancel Options and/or rescind the exercise of Options may
      be made by the Committee, the Senior Executive Vice President of the
      Company in charge of Human Resources or such person s successor, or the
      delegate of or a committee appointed by any of the foregoing, and in each
      case such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding on all
      persons. 

Article
      7 

Restricted
      Stock . 

7.1 

Grant of Restricted
      Stock .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan,
      the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of
      Restricted Stock to eligible Employees in such amounts and upon such terms
      and conditions as the Committee shall determine.  In addition to
      any other terms and conditions imposed by the Committee, vesting of
      Restricted Stock may be conditioned upon the attainment of Performance
      Goals based on Performance Criteria in the same manner as provided in
      Section 8.4, herein, with respect to Performance Shares.  No
      Employee may receive, in any calendar year, in the form of Restricted
      Stock more than one-third of 1% of the Shares approved for issuance under
      this Plan. 

7.2 

Restricted Stock
      Agreement .  The Committee may require, as a condition to
      an Award, that a recipient of a Restricted Stock Award enter into a
      Restricted Stock Award Agreement, setting forth the terms and conditions
      of the Award.  In lieu of a Restricted Stock Award Agreement,
      the Committee may provide the terms and conditions of an Award in a notice
      to the Participant of the Award, on the Stock certificate representing the
      Restricted Stock, in the resolution approving the Award, or in such other
      manner as it deems appropriate. 

7.3 

Transferability .  Except
      as otherwise provided in this Article 7, the Shares of Restricted Stock
      granted herein may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or
      otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable
      Restriction Period established by the Committee, which shall not be less
      than a period of three years. 

7.4 

Other
      Restrictions .  The Committee shall impose such other
      conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock granted
      pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without
      limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase
      price for each Share of Restricted Stock and/or restrictions under
      applicable Federal or state securities laws; and may legend the
      certificates representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice of
      such restrictions. 

The
Company shall also have the right to retain the certificates representing Shares
of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession until such time as all
conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been
satisfied. 

7.5 

Removal of
      Restrictions .  Except as otherwise provided in this
      Article 7, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock
      grant made under the Plan shall become freely transferable by the
      Participant after the last day of the Restriction Period and completion of
      all conditions to vesting, if any.  However, unless otherwise
      provided by the Committee, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall
      have the right to immediately waive all or part of the restrictions and
      conditions with regard to all or part of the Shares held by any
      Participant at any time. 

7.6 

Voting Rights,
      Dividends and Other Distributions .  During the
      Restriction Period, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock
      granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights and shall receive all
      regular cash dividends paid with respect to such Shares.  Except
      as provided in the following sentence, in the sole discretion of the
      Committee, other cash dividends and other distributions paid to
      Participants with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock may be subject to
      the same restrictions and conditions as the Shares of Restricted Stock
      with respect to which they were paid.  If any such dividends or
      distributions are paid in Shares, the Shares shall be subject to the same
      restrictions and conditions as the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect
      to which they were paid. 

7.7 

Termination of
      Employment Due to Death or Disability .  In the event the
      Employment of a Participant shall terminate by reason of death or
      Disability, all Restriction Periods and all restrictions imposed on
      outstanding Shares of Restricted Stock held by the Participant shall
      immediately lapse and the Restricted Stock shall immediately become fully
      vested as of the date of termination of
  Employment. 

7.8 

Termination of
      Employment for Other Reasons .  If the Employment of a
      Participant shall terminate for any reason other than those specifically
      set forth in Section 7.7 herein, all Shares of Restricted Stock held by
      the Participant which are not vested as of the effective date of
      termination of Employment immediately shall be forfeited and returned to
      the Company. 

7.9 

Employee
      Transfers .  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of
      employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its
      Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company or a
      Subsidiary and a RWAC, to the extent the period of employment at a RWAC is
      equal to or less than five (5) years, shall not be deemed a termination of
      Employment.  Provided, however, for purposes of this Article,
      termination of employment with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer to the
      Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a termination of
      Employment as that term is used herein.  Similarly, termination
      of an entity s status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall be deemed a
      termination of Employment of any Participants employed by such Subsidiary
      or RWAC. 

7.10 

Other
      Grants .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan,
      the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may make grants of cash
      or other property to eligible Employees in such amounts and upon such
      terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.  If the
      grant is in the form of stock or shares in a company other than AT T,
      the award shall be subject to tax withholding in accordance with Article
      14, hereof, in the same manner as
Stock. 

Article
      8 

Performance Units and
      Performance Shares . 

8.1 

Grants of Performance
      Units and Performance Shares .  Subject to the terms of
      the Plan, Performance Shares and Performance Units may be granted to
      eligible Employees at any time and from time to time, as determined by the
      Committee.  The Committee shall have complete discretion in
      determining the number of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares
      Awarded to each Participant. 

8.2 

Value of Performance
      Shares and Units . 

(a) A
Performance Share is equivalent in value to a Share of Stock.  In any
calendar year, no individual may be Awarded Performance Shares having a
potential payout of Shares of Stock exceeding two-thirds of 1% of the Shares
approved for issuance under this Plan. 

(b) A
Performance Unit shall be equal in value to a fixed dollar amount determined by
the Committee.  In any calendar year, no individual may be Awarded
Performance Units having a potential payout equivalent exceeding the Fair Market
Value of two-thirds of 1% of the Shares approved for issuance under this
Plan.  The number of Shares equivalent to the potential payout of a
Performance Unit shall be determined by dividing the maximum cash payout of the
Award by the Fair Market Value per Share on the effective date of the
grant.  In the event the Committee denominates a Performance Unit
Award in dollars instead of Performance Units, the Award may be referred to as a
Key Executive Officer Short Term Award.  In all other respects, the
Key Executive Officer Short Term Award will be treated in the same manner as
Performance Units under this Plan. 

8.3 

Performance
      Period .  The Performance Period for Performance Shares
      and Performance Units is the period over which the Performance Goals are
      measured.  The Performance Period is set by the Committee for
      each Award; however, in no event shall an Award have a Performance Period
      of less than one year. 

8.4 

Performance
      Goals .  For each Award of Performance Shares or
      Performance Units, the Committee shall establish performance objectives
      ( Performance Goals ) for the Company, its Subsidiaries, and/or divisions
      of any of foregoing, based on the Performance Criteria and other factors
      set forth in (a) through (d), below.  Performance Goals shall
      include payout tables, formulas or other standards to be used in
      determining the extent to which the Performance Goals are met, and, if
      met, the number of Performance Shares and/or Performance Units which would
      be converted into Stock and/or cash (or the rate of such conversion) and
      distributed to Participants in accordance with
      Section 8.6.  All Performance Shares and Performance Units
      which may not be converted under the Performance Goals or which are
      reduced by the Committee under Section 8.6 or which may not be converted
      for any other reason after the end of the Performance Period shall be
      canceled at the time they would otherwise be
      distributable.  When the Committee desires an Award to qualify
      under Section 162(m) of the Code, as amended, the Committee shall
      establish the Performance Goals for the respective Performance Shares and
      Performance Units prior to or within 90 days of the beginning of the
      service relating to such Performance Goal, and not later than after 25% of
      such period of service has elapsed.  For all other Awards, the
      Performance Goals must be established before the end of the respective
      Performance Period. 

(a)  The
Performance Criteria which the Committee is authorized to use, in its sole
discretion, are any of the following criteria or any combination
thereof: 

(1)                  Financial
performance of the Company (on a consolidated basis), of one or more of its
Subsidiaries, and/or a division of any of the foregoing.  Such
financial performance may be based on net income and/or Value Added (after-tax
cash operating profit less depreciation and less a capital charge). 

(2)                  Service
performance of the Company (on a consolidated basis), of one or more of its
Subsidiaries, and/or of a division of any of the foregoing.  Such
service performance may be based upon measured customer perceptions of service
quality. 

(3)                  The
Company s Stock price; return on shareholders  equity; total shareholder return
(Stock price appreciation plus dividends, assuming the reinvestment of
dividends); and/or earnings per share. 

(4)                  With
respect to the Company (on a consolidated basis), to one or more of its
Subsidiaries, and/or to a division of any of the foregoing: sales; costs; market
share of a product or service; return on net assets; return on assets; return on
capital; profit margin; and/or operating revenues, expenses or
earnings. 

(b)   If
the performance of more than one Subsidiary is being measured to determine the
attainment of performance goals, then a weighted average of the Subsidiaries 
results shall be used, as determined by the Committee, including, but not
limited to, basing such weighting upon the revenues, assets or net income for
each Subsidiary for any year prior to the Performance Period or by using budgets
to weight such Subsidiaries. 

(c)   Except
to the extent otherwise provided by the Committee in full or in part, if any of
the following events occur during a Performance Period and would directly affect
the determination of whether or the extent to which Performance Goals are met,
they shall be disregarded in any such computation: changes in accounting
principles; extraordinary items; changes in tax laws affecting net income and/or
Value Added; natural disasters, including floods, hurricanes, and earthquakes;
and intentionally inflicted damage to property which directly or indirectly
damages the property of the Company or its Subsidiaries.  No such
adjustment shall be made to the extent such adjustment would cause the
Performance Shares or Performance Units to fail to satisfy the performance based
exemption of Section 162(m) of the Code. 

8.5 

Dividend Equivalents
      on Performance Shares .  Unless reduced or eliminated by
      the Committee, a cash payment in an amount equal to the dividend payable
      on one Share will be made to each Participant for each Performance Share
      which on the record date for the dividend had been awarded to the
      Participant and not converted, distributed (or deferred) or
      canceled. 

8.6 

Form and Timing of
      Payment of Performance Units and Performance Shares .  As
      soon as practicable after the applicable Performance Period has ended and
      all other conditions (other than Committee actions) to conversion and
      distribution of a Performance Share and/or Performance Unit Award have
      been satisfied (or, if applicable, at such other time determined by the
      Committee at or before the establishment of the Performance Goals for such
      Performance Period), the Committee shall determine whether and the extent
      to which the Performance Goals were met for the applicable Performance
      Units and Performance Shares.  If Performance Goals have been
      met, then the number of Performance Units and Performance Shares to be
      converted into Stock and/or cash and distributed to the Participants shall
      be determined in accordance with the Performance Goals for such Awards,
      subject to any limits imposed by the Committee.  Unless the
      Participant has elected to defer all or part of his Performance Units or
      Performance Shares as provided in Article 10, herein, payment of
      Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be made in a single lump
      sum, as soon as reasonably administratively possible following the
      determination of the number of Shares or amount of cash to which the
      Participant is entitled.  Performance Units will be distributed
      to Participants in the form of cash.  Performance Shares will be
      distributed to Participants in the form of 50% Stock and 50% Cash, or at
      the Participant s election, 100% Stock or 100% Cash.  In the
      event the Participant is no longer an Employee at the time of the
      distribution, then the distribution shall be 100% in cash, provided the
      Participant may elect to take 50% or 100% in Stock.  At any time
      prior to the distribution of the Performance Shares and/or Performance
      Units (or if distribution has been deferred, then prior to the time the
      Awards would have been distributed), unless otherwise provided by the
      Committee, the Committee shall have the authority to reduce or eliminate
      the number of Performance Units or Performance Shares to be converted and
      distributed or to mandate the form in which the Award shall be paid (i.e.,
      in cash, in Stock or both, in any proportions determined by the
      Committee). 

Unless
otherwise provided by the Committee, any election to take a greater amount of
cash or Stock with respect to Performance Shares must be made in the calendar
year prior to the calendar year in which the Performance Shares are distributed
(or if distribution has been deferred, then in the year prior to the year the
Performance Shares would have been distributed absent such
deferral).  In addition, if required in order to exempt the
transaction from the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, any
election by an Insider to take a greater amount in cash must be made during a
Window Period and shall be subject to Committee approval. 

For the
purpose of converting Performance Shares into cash and distributing the same to
the holders thereof (or for determining the amount of cash to be deferred), the
value of a Performance Share shall be the Fair Market Value of a Share on the
date the Committee authorizes the payout of Awards.  Performance
Shares to be distributed in the form of Stock will be converted at the rate of
one (1) Share of Stock per Performance Share. 

8.7 

Termination of
      Employment Due to Death, Disability, or Retirement .  If
      the Employment of a Participant shall terminate by reason of death or
      Disability, the Participant shall receive a lump sum payout of all
      outstanding Performance Units and Performance Shares calculated as if all
      unfinished Performance Periods had ended with 100% of the Performance
      Goals achieved, payable in the year following the date of termination of
      Employment.  In the event of Retirement, the full Performance
      Units and Performance Shares shall be converted and distributed based on
      and subject to the achievement of the Performance Goals and in accordance
      with all other terms of the Award and this
Plan. 

8.8 

Termination of
      Employment for Other Reasons .  If the Employment of a
      Participant shall terminate for other than a reason set forth in Section
      8.7 (and other than for Cause), the number of Performance Units and
      Performance Shares to be converted and distributed shall be converted and
      distributed based upon the achievement of the Performance Goals and in
      accordance with all other terms of the Award and the Plan; however, the
      Participant may receive no more than a prorated payout of all Performance
      Units and Performance Shares, based on the portions of the respective
      Performance Periods that have been
completed. 

8.9 

Termination of
      Employment for Cause .  In the event that a Participant's
      Employment shall be terminated by the Company for Cause, all Performance
      Units and Performance Shares shall be forfeited by the Participant to the
      Company. 

8.10 

Nontransferability .  Performance
      Units and Performance Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged,
      assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than in accordance
      with the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary
    Designations. 

Article
      9 

Beneficiary
      Designation .  In the event of the death of a Participant,
      distributions or Awards under this Plan, other than Restricted Stock,
      shall pass in accordance with the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary
      Designations, as the same may be amended from time to
  time. 

Article
      10 

Deferrals .   Unless
      otherwise provided by the Committee, a Participant may, as permitted by
      the Stock Savings Plan or the Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan,
      defer all or part of awards made under this Plan in accordance with and
      subject to the terms of such plans. 

Article
      11. 

Employee
      Matters . 

11.1 

Employment Not
      Guaranteed .  Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or
      limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate
      any Participant's Employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant
      any right to continue in the employ of the Company or one of its
      Subsidiaries. 

11.2 

Participation .  No
      Employee shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under
      this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future
      Award. 

Article
      12 

Change in
      Control . 

Upon the
occurrence of a Change in Control: 

(a) Any
and all Options granted hereunder immediately shall become vested and
exercisable; 

(b) Any
Restriction Periods and all restrictions imposed on Restricted Shares shall
lapse and they shall immediately become fully vested; 

(c) The
100% Performance Goal for all Performance Units and Performance Shares relating
to incomplete Performance Periods shall be deemed to have been fully achieved
and shall be converted and distributed in accordance with all other terms of the
Award and this Plan; provided, however, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in this Plan, no outstanding Performance Unit or Performance Share may be
reduced. 

Article
      13. 

Amendment,
      Modification, and
Termination . 

13.1 

Amendment,
      Modification, and Termination .  The Board may at any time
      suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; the Disinterested
      Committee may at any time and from time to time, alter or amend the Plan
      in whole or in part. 

13.2 

Awards Previously
      Granted .  No termination, amendment, or modification of
      the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously
      granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant
      holding such Award. 

Article
      14 

Withholding . 

14.1 

Tax
      Withholding .  The Company shall deduct or withhold an
      amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local taxes (including
      the Participant's employment tax obligations) required by law to be
      withheld with respect to any taxable event arising or as a result of this
      Plan ( Withholding Taxes ). 

14.2   

Share
      Withholding .  Upon the exercise of Options, the lapse of
      restrictions on Restricted Stock, the distribution of Performance Shares
      in the form of Stock, or any other taxable event hereunder involving the
      transfer of Stock to a Participant, the Company shall withhold Stock equal
      in value, using the Fair Market Value on the date determined by the
      Company to be used to value the Stock for tax purposes, to the Withholding
      Taxes applicable to such
transaction. 

Any
fractional Share of Stock payable to a Participant shall be withheld as
additional Federal withholding, or, at the option of the Company, paid in cash
to the Participant. 

Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method of payment for the
Exercise Price is from the sale by a stockbroker pursuant to Section 6.7(b)(ii),
herein, of the Stock acquired through the Option exercise, then the tax
withholding shall be satisfied out of the proceeds.  For
administrative purposes in determining the amount of taxes due, the sale price
of such Stock shall be deemed to be the Fair Market Value of the
Stock. 

Prior to
the end of any Performance Period a Participant may elect to have a greater
amount of Stock withheld from the distribution of Performance Shares to pay
withholding taxes; provided, however, the Committee may prohibit or limit any
individual election or all such elections at any time.   In
addition, if required in order to exempt the transaction from the provisions of
Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, any such election by an Insider must be made
during a Window Period and shall be subject to Committee approval. 

All
obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted
hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the
existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase,
merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business
and/or assets of the Company. 

Article
      16 

Legal
      Construction . 

16.1 

Gender and
      Number .  Except where otherwise indicated by the context,
      any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural
      shall include the singular and the singular shall include the
      plural. 

16.2 

Severability .  In
      the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for
      any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining
      parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the
      illegal or invalid provision had not been
  included. 

16.3 

Requirements of
      Law .  The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares
      under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and
      regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or
      national securities exchanges as may be
  required. 

16.4 

Securities Law
      Compliance .  With respect to Insiders, transactions under
      this Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions or Rule
      16b-3 or its successors under the Exchange Act.  To the extent
      any provision of the plan or action by the Committee fails to comply with
      a condition of Rule 16b-3 or its successors, it shall not apply to the
      Insiders or transactions thereby. 

16.5 

Governing
      Law .  This Plan shall be governed by and construed in
      accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Texas, excluding any
      conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer
      constructive or interpretation of this Plan to provisions of the
      substantive law of any jurisdiction other than the State of Texas. Any
      action seeking to enforce the rights of an employee, former employee or
      person who holds such rights through, from or on behalf of such employee
      or former employee under this Plan may be brought only in a Federal or
      state court located in Bexar County,
Texas. 

</EX-10.N>

<EX-10.T>
 14
 ex10t.htm
 2001 INCENTIVE PLAN

ex10t.htm 

Exhibit
10-t 

2001
INCENTIVE PLAN 

Plan
Effective:  April 27, 2001 

           Revisions
Effective:  November 18, 2005 

AT T
INC. 

        2001
INCENTIVE PLAN 

Article
      1 

Establishment and
      Purpose . 

1.1 

Establishment of the
      Plan .  AT T Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
      "Company" or "AT T"), hereby establishes an incentive compensation
      plan (the "Plan"), as set forth in this
  document. 

1.2 

Purpose of the
      Plan .  The purpose of the Plan is to promote the success
      and enhance the value of the Company by linking the personal interests of
      Participants to those of the Company s shareowners, and by providing
      Participants with an incentive for outstanding
  performance. 

1.3 

Effective Date of the
      Plan .  The Plan shall become effective on April 27,
      2001; however, grants may be made before that time subject to becoming
      effective on or after that date. 

Article
      2 

Definitions .  Whenever
      used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
      below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is
      capitalized: 

(a)           "Award"
means, individually or collectively, a grant or award under this Plan of Stock
Options, Restricted Stock, Performance Units, or Performance
Shares. 

(b)           "Award
Agreement" means an agreement which may be entered into by each Participant and
the Company, setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted
to Participants under this Plan. 

(c)           "Board"
or "Board of Directors" means the AT T Board of Directors. 

(d)           "Cause"
shall mean willful and gross misconduct on the part of an Employee that is
materially and demonstrably detrimental to the Company or any Subsidiary as
determined by the Company in its sole discretion. 

(e)           "Change
in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any "person" (as such term
is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the shareowners of the
Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the
Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under
said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing
twenty percent (20%) or more of the total voting power represented by the
Company's then outstanding voting securities, or (ii) during any period of two
(2) consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period
constitute the Board of Directors of the Company and any new Director whose
election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's
shareowners was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Directors
then still in office who either were Directors at the beginning of the period or
whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for
any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the shareowners of the
Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other
corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the
voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted
into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least eighty percent (80%) of
the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or
such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or
consolidation, or the shareowners of the Company approve a plan of complete
liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the
Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets. 

(f)           "Code"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time. 

(g)           "Committee"
means the committee or committees of the Board of Directors given authority to
administer the Plan as provided in Article 3. 

(h)           "Director"
means any individual who is a member of the AT T Board of
Directors. 

(i)           "Disability"
shall mean absence of an Employee from work under the relevant Company or
Subsidiary disability plan. 

(j)           "Employee"
means any employee of the Company or of one of the Company's
Subsidiaries.  "Employment" means the employment of an Employee by the
Company or one of its Subsidiaries.  Directors who are not otherwise
employed by the Company shall not be considered Employees under this
Plan. 

(k)           "Exchange
Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or
any successor Act thereto. 

(l)           "Exercise
Price" means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant
pursuant to an Option, as determined by the Committee. 

(m)           "Fair
Market Value" shall mean the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") for Shares on the relevant date, or if such date was not a trading day,
the next preceding trading date, all as determined by the Company.  A
trading day is any day that the Shares are traded on the NYSE.  In
lieu of the foregoing, the Committee may select any other index or measurement
to determine the Fair Market Value of Shares under the Plan. 

(n)           "Insider"
shall mean an Employee who is, on the relevant date, an officer, director, or
ten percent (10%) beneficial owner of the Company, as those terms are defined
under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 

(o)           "Key
Executive Officer Short Term Award" or "KEO Award" means a Performance
Unit. 

(p)            Option 
means an option to purchase Shares from AT T. 

(q)           "Participant"
means an Employee or former Employee who holds an outstanding Award granted
under the Plan. 

(r)           "Performance
Unit" and "Performance Share" shall each mean an Award granted to an Employee
pursuant to Article 8 herein. 

(s)           "Plan"
means this 2001 Incentive Plan.  The Plan may also be referred to as
the "AT T 2001 Incentive Plan" or as the "AT T Inc. 2001 Incentive
Plan." 

(t)           "Restricted
Stock" means an Award of Stock granted to an Employee pursuant to Article 7
herein. 

(u)           "Retirement"
or to "Retire" shall mean the Participant s Termination of Employment for any
reason other than death, Disability or for Cause, on or after the earlier of the
following dates, or as otherwise provided by the Committee: (1) for Officer
Level Employees (Participants deemed officer level Employees for compensation
purposes as indicated on the records of AT T), the date the Participant
attains age 55 (individuals who become Officer Level Employees on or after
January 1, 2002, must also have five (5) years of service); or (2) the date the
Participant has attained one of the following combinations of age and service,
except as otherwise indicated below: 

In
determining whether a Participant's Termination of Employment under the Enhanced
Pension and Retirement Program ("EPR") is a Retirement as defined above, 5 years
shall be added to each of Age and Net Credited Service. 

(v)           "Rotational
Work Assignment Company" ("RWAC") shall mean any entity with which AT T Inc.
or any of its Subsidiaries may enter into an agreement to provide an employee
for a rotational work assignment. 

(w)           "Shares"
or "Stock" means the shares of common stock of the Company. 

(x)           "Subsidiary"
shall mean any corporation in which the Company owns directly, or indirectly
through subsidiaries, more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined
voting power of all classes of Stock, or any other entity (including, but not
limited to, partnerships and joint ventures) in which the Company owns more than
fifty percent (50%) of the combined equity thereof. 

(y)           "Termination
of Employment" or a similar reference shall mean the event where the Employee is
no longer an Employee of the Company or of any Subsidiary, including but not
limited to where the employing company ceases to be a Subsidiary. 

Article
      3 

Administration . 

3.1 

The
      Committee .  Administration of the Plan shall be as
      follows: 

(a)           With
respect to Insiders, the Plan and all Awards hereunder shall be administered by
the Human Resources Committee of the Board or such other Committee as may be
appointed by the Board for this purpose (each of the Human Resources Committee
and such other committee is the "Disinterested Committee"), where each Director
on such Disinterested Committee is a "Non-Employee Director", as that term is
used in Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act (or any successor designation for
determining who may administer plans, transactions or awards exempt under
Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act), as that rule may be modified from time to
time. 

(b)           The
Disinterested Committee and such other Committee as the Board may create, if
any, to administer the Plan with respect to non-Insiders (such other Committee
shall be the "Non-Insider Committee") shall each have full authority to
administer the Plan and all Awards hereunder with respect to all persons who are
not Insiders, except as otherwise provided herein or by the
Board.  Any Committee may be replaced by the Board at any
time. 

3.2 

Authority of the
      Committee .  The Committee shall have full power, except
      as limited by law and subject to the provisions herein, in its sole and
      exclusive discretion:  to grant Awards; to select the recipients
      of Awards; to determine the eligibility of a person to participate in the
      Plan or to receive a particular Award; to determine the sizes and types of
      Awards; to determine the terms and conditions of such Awards in a manner
      consistent with the Plan; to construe and interpret the Plan and any
      agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; to establish, amend,
      or waive rules and regulations for the Plan's administration; and (subject
      to the provisions of Article 13 herein) to amend the terms and conditions
      of any outstanding Award to the extent such terms and conditions are
      within the discretion of the Committee as provided in the
      Plan.  Further, the Committee shall make all other
      determinations in its discretion, which may be necessary or advisable for
      the administration of the Plan. 

No Award
other than Restoration Options may be made under the Plan after April 2,
2011. 

References
to determinations or other actions by AT T or the Company, herein, shall
mean actions authorized by the Committee, the Chairman of the Board of AT T,
the Senior Executive Vice President of AT T in charge of Human Resources or
their respective successors or duly authorized delegates, in each case in the
discretion of such person. 

All
determinations and decisions made by AT T pursuant to the provisions of the
Plan and all related orders or resolutions of the Board shall be final,
conclusive, and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders,
Employees, Participants, and their estates and beneficiaries. 

Subject
to the terms of this Plan, the Committee is authorized, and shall not be limited
in its discretion, to use any of the Performance Criteria specified herein in
its determination of any Award under this Plan. 

Article
      4 

Shares Subject to the
      Plan . 

4.1 

Number of
      Shares .  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3
      herein, the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall
      not exceed 60 million Shares of Stock.  No more than 10% of the
      Shares approved for issuance under this Plan may be Shares of Restricted
      Stock.  No more than 40% of the Shares approved for issuance
      under this Plan may be issued to Participants as a result of Performance
      Share and Restricted Stock Awards.  The Shares granted under
      this Plan may be either authorized but unissued or reacquired
      Shares.  The Disinterested Committee shall have full discretion
      to determine the manner in which Shares available for grant are counted in
      this Plan. 

Without
limiting the discretion of the Committee under this section, unless otherwise
provided by the Committee, the following rules will apply for purposes of the
determination of the number of Shares available for grant under the Plan or
compliance with the foregoing limits: 

(a)           The
grant of a Stock Option or a Restricted Stock Award shall reduce the Shares
available for grant under the Plan by the number of Shares subject to such
Award.  However, to the extent the Participant uses previously owned
Shares to pay the Exercise Price or any taxes, or Shares are withheld to pay
taxes, these Shares shall be available for regrant under the Plan. 

(b)           With
respect to Performance Shares, the number of Performance Shares granted under
the Plan shall be deducted from the number of Shares available for grant under
the Plan. The number of Performance Shares which cannot be, or are not,
converted into Shares and distributed (including deferrals) to the Participant
or deferred through another plan following the end of the Performance Period, or
which are withheld for taxes, shall increase the number of Shares available for
regrant under the Plan by an equal amount. 

(c)           With
respect to Performance Units representing a fixed dollar amount that may only be
settled in cash, the Performance Units Award shall not affect the number of
Shares available under the Plan. 

4.2 

Lapsed
      Awards .  If any Award granted under this Plan is
      canceled, terminates, expires, or lapses for any reason, Shares subject to
      such Award shall be again available for the grant of an Award under the
      Plan. 

4.3 

Adjustments in
      Authorized Plan Shares .  In the event of any merger,
      reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, separation, liquidation,
      Stock dividend, split-up, Share combination, or other change in the
      corporate structure of the Company affecting the Shares, an adjustment
      shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered
      under the Plan (including individual limits), and in the number and class
      of and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the
      Plan, and/or the number of outstanding Options, Shares of Restricted
      Stock, and Performance Shares constituting outstanding Awards, as may be
      determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Disinterested Committee,
      in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of
      rights. 

Article
      5 

Eligibility and
      Participation . 

5.1 

Eligibility .  All
      management Employees are eligible to receive Awards under this
      Plan. 

5.2 

Actual
      Participation .  Subject to the provisions of the Plan,
      the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible Employees,
      those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and
      amount of each Award.  No Employee is entitled to receive an
      Award unless selected by the
Committee. 

Article
      6 

Stock
      Options . 

6.1 

Grant of
      Options .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the
      Plan, Options may be granted to Employees at any time and from time to
      time, and under such terms and conditions, as shall be determined by the
      Committee. In addition, the Committee may, from time to time, provide for
      the payment of dividend equivalents on Options, prospectively and/or
      retroactively, on such terms and conditions as the Committee may require.
      The Committee shall have discretion in determining the number of Shares
      subject to Options granted to each Employee; provided, however, that the
      maximum number of Shares subject to Options which may be granted to any
      single Employee during any calendar year shall not exceed 2% of the Shares
      approved for issuance under this Plan.  The Committee may not
      grant Incentive Stock Options, as described in Section 422 of the Code,
      under this Plan.  The Committee may authorize the automatic
      grant of additional Options ("Restoration Options") when a Participant
      exercises already outstanding Options, or options granted under a prior
      option plan of the Company, on such terms and conditions as it shall
      determine.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the
      number of Restoration Options granted to a Participant with respect to the
      exercise of an option (including an Option under this Plan) shall not
      exceed the number of Shares delivered by the Participant in payment of the
      Exercise Price of such option, and/or in payment of any tax withholding
      resulting from such exercise, and any Shares which are withheld to satisfy
      withholding tax liability arising out of such exercise.  A
      Restoration Option shall have an Exercise Price of not less than 100% of
      the per Share Fair Market Value on the date of grant of such Restoration
      Option, and shall be subject to all the terms and conditions of the
      original grant, including the expiration date, and such other terms and
      conditions as the Committee in its sole discretion shall
      determine. 

6.2 

Form of
      Issuance .  Each Option grant may be issued in the form of
      an Award Agreement and/or may be recorded on the books and records of the
      Company for the account of the Participant. If an Option is not issued in
      the form of an Award Agreement, then the Option shall be deemed granted as
      determined by the Committee.  The terms and conditions of an
      Option shall be set forth in the Award Agreement, in the notice of the
      issuance of the grant, or in such other documents as the Committee shall
      determine.  Such terms and conditions shall include the Exercise
      Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which an Option
      pertains (unless otherwise provided by the Committee, each Option may be
      exercised to purchase one Share), and such other provisions as the
      Committee shall determine. 

6.3 

Exercise
      Price .  Unless a greater Exercise Price is determined by
      the Committee, the Exercise Price for each Option Awarded under this Plan
      shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a
      Share on the date the Option is
granted. 

6.4   

Duration of
      Options .  Each Option shall expire at such time as the
      Committee shall determine at the time of grant (which duration may be
      extended by the Committee); provided, however, that no Option shall be
      exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date of its
      grant.  In the event the Committee does not specify the
      expiration date of an Option, then such Option will expire on the tenth
      (10 th )
      anniversary date of its grant, except as otherwise provided
      herein. 

6.5 

Vesting of
      Options .  Options shall vest at such times and under such
      terms and conditions as determined by the Committee; provided, however,
      unless another vesting period is provided by the Committee at or before
      the grant of an Option, one-third of the Options will vest on each of the
      first three anniversaries of the grant; if one Option remains after
      equally dividing the grant by three, it will vest on the first anniversary
      of the grant, if two Options remain, then one will vest on each of the
      first two anniversaries.  The Committee shall have the right to
      accelerate the vesting of any Option; however, the Chairman of the Board
      or the Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources, or their
      respective successors, or such other persons designated by the Committee,
      shall have the authority to accelerate the vesting of Options for any
      Participant who is not an Insider. 

6.6 

Exercise of
      Options .  Options granted under the Plan shall be
      exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and
      conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not
      be the same for each grant or for each Participant. Exercises of Options
      may be effected only on days and during the hours that the New York Stock
      Exchange is open for regular trading.  The Company may change or
      limit the times or days Options may be exercised.  If an Option
      expires on a day or at a time when exercises are not permitted, then the
      Options may be exercised no later than the immediately preceding date and
      time that the Options were
exercisable. 

Options
shall be exercised by providing notice to the designated agent selected by the
Company (if no such agent has been designated, then to the Company), in the
manner and form determined by the Company, which notice shall be irrevocable,
setting forth the exact number of Shares with respect to which the Option is
being exercised and including with such notice payment of the Exercise
Price.  When Options have been transferred, the Company or its
designated agent may require appropriate documentation that the person or
persons exercising the Option, if other than the Participant, has the right to
exercise the Option.   No Option may be exercised with respect to
a fraction of a Share. 

6.7 

Payment .  The
      Exercise Price shall be paid in full at the time of
      exercise.  No Shares shall be issued or transferred until full
      payment has been received therefor. 

Payment
may be made: 

(a)           in
cash, or 

(b)           unless
otherwise provided by the Committee at any time, and subject to such additional
terms and conditions and/or modifications as the Committee or the Company may
impose from time to time, and further subject to suspension or termination of
this provision by the Committee or Company at any time, by: 

(i)           delivery
of Shares of Stock owned by the Participant in partial (if in partial payment,
then together with cash) or full payment; provided, however, as a condition to
paying any part of the Exercise Price in Stock, at the time of exercise of the
Option, the Participant must establish to the satisfaction of the Company that
the Stock tendered to the Company must have been held by the Participant for a
minimum of six (6) months preceding the tender; or 

(ii)           if
the Company has designated a stockbroker to act as the Company s agent to
process Option exercises, issuance of an exercise notice together with
instructions to such stockbroker irrevocably instructing the
stockbroker:  (A) to immediately sell (which shall include an exercise
notice that becomes effective upon execution of a sale order) a sufficient
portion of the Shares to be received from the Option exercise to pay the
Exercise Price of the Options being exercised and the required tax withholding,
and (B) to deliver on the settlement date the portion of the proceeds of the
sale equal to the Exercise Price and tax withholding to the
Company.  In the event the stockbroker sells any Shares on behalf of a
Participant, the stockbroker shall be acting solely as the agent of the
Participant, and the Company disclaims any responsibility for the actions of the
stockbroker in making any such sales.  No Stock shall be issued until
the settlement date and until the proceeds (equal to the Option Price and tax
withholding) are paid to the Company. 

If
payment is made by the delivery of Shares of Stock, the value of the Shares
delivered shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the day
preceding the date of exercise of the Option. 

Restricted
Stock may not be used to pay the Option Price. 

6.8 

Termination of
      Employment .  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee,
      the following limitations on exercise of Options shall apply upon
      Termination of Employment: 

(a)            Termination by Death or
Disability .  In the event of the Participant's Termination of
Employment by reason of death or Disability, all outstanding Options granted to
that Participant shall immediately vest as of the date of Termination of
Employment and may be exercised, if at all, no more than three (3) years from
the date of the Termination of Employment, unless the Options, by their terms,
expire earlier.  However, in the event the Participant was eligible to
Retire at the time of Termination of Employment, notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Options may be exercised, if at all, no more than five (5) years from the
date of the Termination of Employment, unless the Options, by their terms,
expire earlier. 

(b)            Termination for
Cause .  In the event of the Participant's Termination of
Employment by the Company for Cause, all outstanding Options held by the
Participant shall immediately be forfeited to the Company and no additional
exercise period shall be allowed, regardless of the vested status of the
Options. 

(c)            Retirement or Other
Termination of Employment .  In the event of the Participant's
Termination of Employment for any reason other than the reasons set forth in (a)
or (b), above: 

(i)           If
upon the Participant's Termination of Employment, the Participant is not an EPR
Terminee (as that term is defined in the AT T Pension Benefit Plan or the
Ameritech Management Pension Plan), but is eligible to Retire (and if the
Participant is an officer level employee for compensation purposes as determined
by AT T, the employee must also be age 55 or older at Termination of
Employment), then all outstanding unvested Options granted to that Participant
shall immediately vest as of the date of the Participant's Termination of
Employment; provided, however, this vesting provision shall not apply to Options
granted prior to September 28, 2001, unless and except for those Options
outstanding as of September 27, 2001, that have an Exercise Price equal to or
more than the Fair Market Value of Stock on such date; 

(ii)           
All outstanding Options which are vested as of the effective date of Termination
of Employment may be exercised, if at all, no more than five (5) years from the
date of Termination of Employment if the Participant is eligible to Retire, or
three (3) months from the date of the Termination of Employment if the
Participant is not eligible to Retire, as the case may be, unless in either case
the Options, by their terms, expire earlier; and 

(iii)           
In the event of the death of the Participant after Termination of Employment,
this paragraph (c) shall still apply and not paragraph (a), above. 

(d)            Options not Vested at
Termination .  Except as provided in paragraph (a), above, all
Options held by the Participant which are not vested on or before the effective
date of Termination of Employment shall immediately be forfeited to the Company
(and shall once again become available for grant under the Plan). 

(e)           Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, establish different
terms and conditions pertaining to the effect of Termination of Employment, but
no such modification shall shorten the terms of Options issued prior to such
modification. 

6.9 

Employee
      Transfers .  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of
      employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its
      Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company or a
      Subsidiary and a RWAC, to the extent the period of employment at a RWAC is
      equal to or less than five (5) years, shall not be deemed a Termination of
      Employment.  Provided, however, for purposes of this Article 6,
      termination of employment with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer to the
      Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a Termination of
      Employment as that term is used herein.  Similarly, termination
      of an entity s status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall be deemed a
      Termination of Employment of any Participants employed by such Subsidiary
      or RWAC. 

6.10 

Restrictions on
      Exercise and Transfer of Options .  Unless otherwise
      provided by the Committee: 

(a)           During
the Participant s lifetime, the Participant s Options shall be exercisable only
by the Participant or by the Participant s guardian or legal
representative.  After the death of the Participant, except as
otherwise provided by AT T s Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, an
Option shall only be exercised by the holder thereof (including, but not limited
to, an executor or administrator of a decedent s estate) or his or her guardian
or legal representative. 

(b)           No
Option shall be transferable except: (i) in the case of the Participant, only
upon the Participant s death and in accordance with the AT T Rules for
Employee Beneficiary Designations; and (ii) in the case of any holder after the
Participant s death, only by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution. 

6.11   

Competition and
      Solicitation .  In the event a Participant directly or
      indirectly, engages in competitive activity, or has become associated
      with, employed by, controls, or renders service to any business that is
      engaged in competitive activity, with (i) the Company, (ii) any
      Subsidiary, or (iii) any business in which any of the foregoing have a
      substantial interest, or if the Participant attempts, directly or
      indirectly, to induce any employee of the Company or a Subsidiary to be
      employed or perform services elsewhere without the permission of the
      Company, then the Company may (i) cancel any Option granted to such
      Participant, whether or not vested, in whole or in part; and/or (ii)
      rescind any exercise of the Participant s Options that occurred on or
      after that date six months prior to engaging in such activity, in which
      case the Participant shall pay the Company the gain realized or received
      upon such exercise of Options.  "Has become associated with"
      shall include, among other things, beneficial ownership of 1/10 of 1% or
      more of a business engaged in competitive activity.  The
      determination of whether a Participant has engaged in any such activity
      and whether to cancel Options and/or rescind the exercise of Options shall
      be made by AT T, and in each case such determination shall be final,
      conclusive and binding on all
persons. 

Article
      7 

Restricted
      Stock . 

7.1 

Grant of Restricted
      Stock .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan,
      the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of
      Restricted Stock to eligible Employees in such amounts and upon such terms
      and conditions as the Committee shall determine.  In addition to
      any other terms and conditions imposed by the Committee, vesting of
      Restricted Stock may be conditioned upon the attainment of Performance
      Goals based on Performance Criteria in the same manner as provided in
      Section 8.4, herein, with respect to Performance Shares.  No
      Employee may receive, in any calendar year, in the form of Restricted
      Stock more than one-third of 1% of the Shares approved for issuance under
      this Plan. 

7.2 

Restricted Stock
      Agreement .  The Committee may require, as a condition to
      an Award, that a recipient of a Restricted Stock Award enter into a
      Restricted Stock Award Agreement, setting forth the terms and conditions
      of the Award.  In lieu of a Restricted Stock Award Agreement,
      the Committee may provide the terms and conditions of an Award in a notice
      to the Participant of the Award, on the Stock certificate representing the
      Restricted Stock, in the resolution approving the Award, or in such other
      manner as it deems appropriate. 

7.3 

Transferability .  Except
      as otherwise provided in this Article 7, and subject to any additional
      terms in the grant thereof, Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may
      not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
      hypothecated until fully vested. 

7.4 

Restrictions .  The
      Restricted Stock shall be subject to such vesting terms as may be
      determined by the Committee.  The Committee may impose such
      other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock
      granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without
      limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase
      price for each Share of Restricted Stock and/or restrictions under
      applicable Federal or state securities laws; and may legend the
      certificates representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice of
      such restrictions. 

The
Company shall also have the right to retain the certificates representing Shares
of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession until such time as the shares
are fully vested and all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such
Shares have been satisfied. 

7.5 

Removal of
      Restrictions .  Except as otherwise provided in this
      Article 7 or otherwise provided in the grant thereof, Shares of Restricted
      Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall
      become freely transferable by the Participant after completion of all
      conditions to vesting, if any.  However, the Committee, in its
      sole discretion, shall have the right to immediately vest the shares and
      waive all or part of the restrictions and conditions with regard to all or
      part of the Shares held by any Participant at any
  time. 

7.6 

Voting Rights,
      Dividends and Other Distributions .  Participants holding
      Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting
      rights and shall receive all regular cash dividends paid with respect to
      such Shares.  Except as provided in the following sentence, in
      the sole discretion of the Committee, other cash dividends and other
      distributions paid to Participants with respect to Shares of Restricted
      Stock may be subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Shares
      of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid.  If
      any such dividends or distributions are paid in Shares, the Shares shall
      be subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Shares of
      Restricted Stock with respect to which they were
  paid. 

7.7 

Termination of
      Employment Due to Death or Disability .  In the event of
      the Participant's Termination of Employment by reason of death or
      Disability, all restrictions imposed on outstanding Shares of Restricted
      Stock held by the Participant shall immediately lapse and the Restricted
      Stock shall immediately become fully vested as of the date of Termination
      of Employment. 

7.8 

Termination of
      Employment for Other Reasons .  In the event of the
      Participant's Termination of Employment for any reason other than those
      specifically set forth in Section 7.7 herein, all Shares of Restricted
      Stock held by the Participant which are not vested as of the effective
      date of Termination of Employment immediately shall be forfeited and
      returned to the Company. 

7.9 

Employee
      Transfers .  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of
      employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its
      Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company or a
      Subsidiary and a RWAC, to the extent the period of employment at a RWAC is
      equal to or less than five (5) years, shall not be deemed a Termination of
      Employment.  Provided, however, for purposes of this Article,
      termination of employment with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer to the
      Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a Termination of
      Employment as that term is used herein.  Similarly, termination
      of an entity s status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall be deemed a
      Termination of Employment of any Participants employed by such Subsidiary
      or RWAC. 

Article
      8 

Performance Units and
      Performance Shares . 

8.1 

Grants of Performance
      Units and Performance Shares .  Subject to the terms of
      the Plan, Performance Shares and Performance Units may be granted to
      eligible Employees at any time and from time to time, as determined by the
      Committee.  The Committee shall have complete discretion in
      determining the number of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares
      Awarded to each Participant. 

8.2 

Value of Performance
      Shares and Units . 

(a)           A
Performance Share is equivalent in value to a Share of Stock.  In any
calendar year, no individual may be Awarded Performance Shares having a
potential payout of Shares of Stock exceeding two-thirds of 1% of the Shares
approved for issuance under this Plan. 

(b)           A
Performance Unit shall be equal in value to a fixed dollar amount determined by
the Committee.  In any calendar year, no individual may be Awarded
Performance Units having a potential payout equivalent exceeding the Fair Market
Value of two-thirds of 1% of the Shares approved for issuance under this
Plan.  The number of Shares equivalent to the potential payout of a
Performance Unit shall be determined by dividing the maximum cash payout of the
Award by the Fair Market Value per Share on the effective date of the
grant.  The Committee may denominate a Performance Unit Award in
dollars instead of Performance Units.  A Performance Unit Award may be
referred to as a "Key Executive Officer Short Term Award" or "KEO
Award". 

8.3 

Performance
      Period .  The Performance Period for Performance Shares
      and Performance Units is the period over which the Performance Goals are
      measured.  The Performance Period is set by the Committee for
      each Award; however, in no event shall an Award have a Performance Period
      of less than one year. 

8.4 

Performance
      Goals .  For each Award of Performance Shares or
      Performance Units, the Committee shall establish performance objectives
      ("Performance Goals") for the Company, its Subsidiaries, and/or divisions
      of any of foregoing, based on the Performance Criteria and other factors
      set forth in (a) through (d), below.  Performance Goals shall
      include payout tables, formulas or other standards to be used in
      determining the extent to which the Performance Goals are met, and, if
      met, the number of Performance Shares and/or Performance Units which would
      be converted into Stock and/or cash (or the rate of such conversion) and
      distributed to Participants in accordance with
      Section 8.6.  All Performance Shares and Performance Units
      which may not be converted under the Performance Goals or which are
      reduced by the Committee under Section 8.6 or which may not be converted
      for any other reason after the end of the Performance Period shall be
      canceled at the time they would otherwise be
      distributable.  When the Committee desires an Award to qualify
      under Section 162(m) of the Code, as amended, the Committee shall
      establish the Performance Goals for the respective Performance Shares and
      Performance Units prior to or within 90 days of the beginning of the
      service relating to such Performance Goal, and not later than after 25% of
      such period of service has elapsed.  For all other Awards, the
      Performance Goals must be established before the end of the respective
      Performance Period. 

(a)           The
Performance Criteria which the Committee is authorized to use, in its sole
discretion, are any of the following criteria or any combination
thereof: 

(1)   

Financial
      performance of the Company (on a consolidated basis), of one or more of
      its Subsidiaries, and/or a division of any of the
      foregoing.  Such financial performance may be based on net
      income, Value Added (after-tax cash operating profit less depreciation and
      less a capital charge), EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes,
      depreciation and amortization), revenues, sales, expenses, costs, market
      share, volumes of a particular product or service or category thereof,
      including but not limited to the product's life cycle (for example,
      products introduced in the last 2 years), return on net assets, return on
      assets, return on capital, profit margin, operating revenues, operating
      expenses, and/or operating income. 

(2)   

Service
      performance of the Company (on a consolidated basis), of one or more of
      its Subsidiaries, and/or of a division of any of the
      foregoing.  Such service performance may be based upon measured
      customer perceptions of service
quality. 

(3)   

The
      Company s Stock price, return on shareholders  equity, total shareholder
      return (Stock price appreciation plus dividends, assuming the reinvestment
      of dividends), and/or earnings per
share. 

(b)           Except
to the extent otherwise provided by the Committee in full or in part, if any of
the following events occur during a Performance Period and would directly affect
the determination of whether or the extent to which Performance Goals are met,
the effects of such events shall be disregarded in any such computation: changes
in accounting principles; extraordinary items; changes in tax laws affecting net
income and/or Value Added; natural disasters, including floods, hurricanes, and
earthquakes; and intentionally inflicted damage to property which directly or
indirectly damages the property of the Company or its
Subsidiaries.  No such adjustment shall be made to the extent such
adjustment would cause the Performance Shares or Performance Units to fail to
satisfy the performance based exemption of Section 162(m) of the
Code. 

8.5   

Dividend Equivalents
      on Performance Shares .  Unless reduced or eliminated by
      the Committee, a cash payment in an amount equal to the dividend payable
      on one Share will be made to each Participant for each Performance Share
      held by a Participant on the record date for the
  dividend. 

8.6 

Form and Timing of
      Payment of Performance Units and Performance Shares .  As
      soon as practicable after the applicable Performance Period has ended and
      all other conditions (other than Committee actions) to conversion and
      distribution of a Performance Share and/or Performance Unit Award have
      been satisfied (or, if applicable, at such other time determined by the
      Committee at or before the establishment of the Performance Goals for such
      Performance Period), the Committee shall determine whether and the extent
      to which the Performance Goals were met for the applicable Performance
      Units and Performance Shares.  If Performance Goals have been
      met, then the number of Performance Units and Performance Shares to be
      converted into Stock and/or cash and distributed to the Participants shall
      be determined in accordance with the Performance Goals for such Awards,
      subject to any limits imposed by the Committee.  Unless the
      Participant has elected to defer all or part of his Performance Units or
      Performance Shares as provided in Article 10, herein, payment of
      Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be made in a single lump
      sum, as soon as reasonably administratively possible following the
      determination of the number of Shares or amount of cash to which the
      Participant is entitled.  Performance Units will be distributed
      to Participants in the form of cash.  Performance Shares will be
      distributed to Participants in the form of 50% Stock and 50% Cash, or at
      the Participant s election, 100% Stock or 100% Cash.  In the
      event the Participant is no longer an Employee at the time of the
      distribution, then the distribution shall be 100% in cash, provided the
      Participant may elect to take 50% or 100% in Stock.  At any time
      prior to the distribution of the Performance Shares and/or Performance
      Units (or if distribution has been deferred, then prior to the time the
      Awards would have been distributed), unless otherwise provided by the
      Committee, the Committee shall have the authority to reduce or eliminate
      the number of Performance Units or Performance Shares to be converted and
      distributed or to mandate the form in which the Award shall be paid (i.e.,
      in cash, in Stock or both, in any proportions determined by the
      Committee). 

Unless
otherwise provided by the Committee, any election to take a greater amount of
cash or Stock with respect to Performance Shares must be made in the calendar
year prior to the calendar year in which the Performance Shares are distributed
(or if distribution has been deferred, then in the year prior to the year the
Performance Shares would have been distributed absent such
deferral). 

For the
purpose of converting Performance Shares into cash and distributing the same to
the holders thereof (or for determining the amount of cash to be deferred), the
value of a Performance Share shall be the Fair Market Value of a Share on the
date the Committee authorizes the payout of Awards.  Performance
Shares to be distributed in the form of Stock will be converted at the rate of
one (1) Share of Stock per Performance Share. 

8.7 

Termination of
      Employment Due to Death or Disability .  In the event of
      the Participant's Termination of Employment by reason of death or
      Disability, the Participant shall receive a lump sum payout of all
      outstanding Performance Units and Performance Shares calculated as if all
      unfinished Performance Periods had ended with 100% of the Performance
      Goals achieved, payable in the year following the date of Termination of
      Employment. 

8.8 

Termination of
      Employment for Other Reasons .  In the event of the
      Participant's Termination of Employment for other than a reason set forth
      in Section 8.7 (and other than for Cause), if the Participant is not
      Retirement eligible at Termination of Employment, the Participant may
      receive no more than a prorated payout of all Performance Units and
      Performance Shares, based on the number of months the Participant worked
      at least one day during the respective Performance Period divided by the
      number of months in the Performance
Period. 

8.9 

Termination of
      Employment for Cause .  In the event of the Participant's
      Termination of Employment of a Participant by the Company for Cause, all
      Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be forfeited by the
      Participant to the Company. 

8.10 

Nontransferability .  Performance
      Units and Performance Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged,
      assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than in accordance
      with the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary
    Designations. 

Article
      9 

Beneficiary
      Designation .  In the event of the death of a Participant,
      distributions or Awards under this Plan, other than Restricted Stock,
      shall pass in accordance with the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary
      Designations, as the same may be amended from time to
      time.  Beneficiary Designations of a Participant received by
      AT T prior to November 16, 2001, that were applicable to awards under
      the 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan will also apply to awards under this
      Plan unless and until the Participant provides to the
      contrary. 

Article
      10 

Deferrals .   Unless
      otherwise provided by the Committee, a Participant may, as permitted by
      the Stock Savings Plan or the Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan,
      defer all or part of Awards made under this Plan in accordance with and
      subject to the terms of such plans. 

Article
      11. 

Employee
      Matters . 

11.1 

Employment Not
      Guaranteed .  Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or
      limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate
      any Participant's Employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant
      any right to continue in the employ of the Company or one of its
      Subsidiaries. 

11.2 

Participation .  No
      Employee shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under
      this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future
      Award. 

Article
      12 

Change in
      Control . 

Upon the
occurrence of a Change in Control: 

(a)           Any
and all Options granted hereunder immediately shall become vested and
exercisable; 

(b)           Any
Restriction Periods and all restrictions imposed on Restricted Shares shall
lapse and they shall immediately become fully vested; 

(c)           The
100% Performance Goal for all Performance Units and Performance Shares relating
to incomplete Performance Periods shall be deemed to have been fully achieved
and shall be converted and distributed in accordance with all other terms of the
Award and this Plan; provided, however, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in this Plan, no outstanding Performance Unit or Performance Share may be
reduced. 

Article
      13. 

Amendment,
      Modification, and
Termination . 

13.1 

Amendment,
      Modification, and Termination .  The Board or the
      Disinterested Committee may at any time and from time to time, alter or
      amend the Plan in whole or in part or suspend or terminate the Plan in
      whole or in part. 

13.2 

Awards Previously
      Granted .  No termination, amendment, or modification of
      the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously
      granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant
      holding such Award. 

Article
      14 

Withholding . 

14.1 

Tax
      Withholding .  The Company shall deduct or withhold an
      amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local taxes (including
      the Participant's employment tax obligations) required by law to be
      withheld with respect to any taxable event arising or as a result of this
      Plan ("Withholding Taxes"). 

14.2   

Share
      Withholding .  Upon the exercise of Options, the lapse of
      restrictions on Restricted Stock, the distribution of Performance Shares
      in the form of Stock, or any other taxable event hereunder involving the
      transfer of Stock to a Participant, the Company shall withhold Stock equal
      in value, using the Fair Market Value on the date determined by the
      Company to be used to value the Stock for tax purposes, to the Withholding
      Taxes applicable to such
transaction. 

Any
fractional Share of Stock payable to a Participant shall be withheld as
additional Federal withholding, or, at the option of the Company, paid in cash
to the Participant. 

Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method of payment for the
Exercise Price is from the sale by a stockbroker pursuant to Section 6.7(b)(ii),
herein, of the Stock acquired through the Option exercise, then the tax
withholding shall be satisfied out of the proceeds.  For
administrative purposes in determining the amount of taxes due, the sale price
of such Stock shall be deemed to be the Fair Market Value of the
Stock. 

If
permitted by the Committee, prior to the end of any Performance Period a
Participant may elect to have a greater amount of Stock withheld from the
distribution of Performance Shares to pay withholding taxes; provided, however,
the Committee may prohibit or limit any individual election or all such
elections at any time. 

All
obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted
hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the
existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase,
merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business
and/or assets of the Company. 

Article
      16 

Legal
      Construction . 

16.1 

Gender and
      Number .  Except where otherwise indicated by the context,
      any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural
      shall include the singular and the singular shall include the
      plural. 

16.2 

Severability .  In
      the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for
      any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining
      parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the
      illegal or invalid provision had not been
  included. 

16.3   

Requirements of
      Law .  The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares
      under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and
      regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or
      national securities exchanges as may be
  required. 

16.4   

Errors .  At
      any time AT T may correct any error made under the Plan without
      prejudice to AT T.  Such corrections may include, among
      other things, changing or revoking an issuance of an
  Award. 

16.5   

Elections and
      Notices .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
      contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of every kind shall be
      made on forms prepared by AT T or the General Counsel, Secretary or
      Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates or shall be made in
      such other manner as permitted or required by AT T or the General
      Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates,
      including through electronic means, over the Internet or
      otherwise.  An election shall be deemed made when received by
      AT T (or its designated agent, but only in cases where the designated
      agent has been appointed for the purpose of receiving such election),
      which may waive any defects in form.  AT T may limit the
      time an election may be made in advance of any
  deadline. 

Where any
notice or filing required or permitted to be given to AT T under the Plan,
it shall be delivered to the principal office of AT T, directed to the
attention of the Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources of AT T or
his or her successor.  Such notice shall be deemed given on the date
of delivery. 

Notice to
the Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the
Participant's work or home address as shown on the records of AT T or, at
the option of AT T, to the Participant's e-mail address as shown on the
records of AT T.  It is the Participant's responsibility to ensure
that the Participant's addresses are kept up to date on the records of
AT T.  In the case of notices affecting multiple Participants, the
notices may be given by general distribution at the Participants' work
locations. 

16.6   

Governing
      Law .  To the extent not preempted by Federal law, the
      Plan, and all awards and agreements hereunder, and any and all disputes in
      connection therewith, shall be governed by and construed in accordance
      with the substantive laws of the State of Texas, without regard to
      conflict or choice of law principles which might otherwise refer the
      construction, interpretation or enforceability of this Plan to the
      substantive law of another
jurisdiction. 

16.7   

Venue  .   Because
      awards under the Plan are granted in Texas, records relating to the Plan
      and awards thereunder are located in Texas, and the Plan and awards
      thereunder are administered in Texas, the Company and the Participant to
      whom an award under this Plan is granted, for themselves and their
      successors and assigns, irrevocably submit to the exclusive and sole
      jurisdiction and venue of the state or federal courts of Texas with
      respect to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this Plan,
      the subject matter of this Plan or any awards under this Plan, including
      but not limited to any disputes arising out of or relating to the
      interpretation and enforceability of any awards or the terms and
      conditions of this Plan.  To achieve certainty regarding the
      appropriate forum in which to prosecute and defend actions arising out of
      or relating to this Plan, and to ensure consistency in application and
      interpretation of the Governing Law to the Plan, the parties agree that
      (a) sole and exclusive appropriate venue for any such action shall be an
      appropriate federal or state court in Bexar County, Texas, and no other,
      (b) all claims with respect to any such action shall be heard and
      determined exclusively in such Texas court, and no other, (c) such Texas
      court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over the person of such
      parties and over the subject matter of any dispute relating hereto and (d)
      that the parties waive any and all objections and defenses to bringing any
      such action before such Texas court, including but not limited to those
      relating to lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue or  forum non
      conveniens . 

</EX-10.T>

<EX-10.U>
 15
 ex10u.htm
 PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP 1996 EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL COMP PLAN

ex10u.htm 

Exhibit
10-u 

PACIFIC
TELESIS GROUP 

1996   EXECUTIVE DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN 

(Amended
Effective November 20, 2008) 

PACIFIC
TELESIS GROUP 

1996 EXECUTIVE DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN  

(Adopted
Effective December 1, 1995) 

SECTION
1.                                 Purpose . 

The
Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan )
provides certain Officers of the Company with an opportunity to defer
compensation and accrue earnings on a pre-tax basis and with an opportunity to
receive employer matching contributions that cannot be provided to them under
the Pacific Telesis Group Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Salaried
Employees ("the Savings Plan") because of the limitations imposed by section
401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( the
Code ). 

SECTION
2.                                 Eligibility to
Participate . 

The
following employees are eligible to participate in the Plan: 

(A) 

Officers
      of Pacific Telesis Group and/or Pacific
Bell; 

(B) 

The
      Officers of any Affiliate of Pacific Telesis Group who are specifically
      designated to participate by the PTG Board and the Board of Directors or
      other governing body of such
Affiliate. 

SECTION
3.                                 Plan
Accounts . 

3.1            Establishment of
Account . An account shall be established for each eligible employee who
elects to become a participant in the Plan in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Section 4 of the Plan. The account shall be credited with allocations
and earnings under Sections 4, 5 and 6 and debited with distributions under
Section 7 of the Plan. 

3.2            No Funding or
Assignment . For income tax purposes under the Code and for purposes of
Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
("ERISA"), it is intended that this Plan constitute an unfunded deferred
compensation arrangement. The amounts credited to Plan accounts for employees of
each participating Company shall be held in the general funds of such
participating Company. All amounts in such accounts, including all Compensation
deferred by an employee, shall remain an asset of the participating Company. A
participating Company shall not be required to reserve or otherwise set aside
funds for the payment of amounts credited to Plan accounts. The obligation of a
participating Company to pay benefits under the Plan constitutes a mere promise
to make benefit payments in the future, and shall be unfunded as to the
employee, whose rights shall be those of a general unsecured creditor. Title to
and beneficial ownership of any assets which a participating Company may set
aside or otherwise designate to make payments under the Plan shall at all times
remain in the participating Company, and the employee shall not have any
property interest in any specific assets of a participating Company. The rights
of an employee or his or her beneficiary to benefit payments under the Plan are
not subject in any manner to assignment, alienation, pledge or garnishment by
creditors. 

SECTION
4.  Deferred
Compensation . 

4.1            Annual Deferral and
Distribution Election . An eligible employee may elect to participate in
the Plan prior to the beginning of any calendar year, or within 30 days of first
becoming eligible to participate in the Plan, or within 30 days of becoming
eligible to participate in a feature of the Plan with respect to such Plan
feature. An employee's election shall direct that compensation in one or more of
the following categories (collectively  Compensation ) be deferred and credited
to an account under the Plan, subject to the limitations and effectiveness
prescribed for each category of Compensation, and shall direct that such
Compensation, together with all other amounts credited under the Plan with
respect to such Compensation under Section 5 (Company Match) and Section 6
(Earnings), shall be distributed in accordance with a distribution option set
forth in Section 7. 

(A) 

Salary . An
      employee may elect to defer part of his or her base annual compensation
      ( Salary ) otherwise payable for services performed in a calendar year,
      but not less than $2,500 nor more than 80% of salary. Such election shall
      become effective for Salary otherwise payable for services performed in
      the payroll period beginning, (i) in the case of an employee who makes an
      election within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in the
      Plan, immediately subsequent to the election or (ii) in all other cases,
      on the first day of the calendar year to which the election applies. An
      election related to Salary otherwise payable for services performed in any
      calendar year shall become irrevocable, (x) in the case of an election
      made within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan,
      on the last day before the applicable payroll period for which the
      election becomes effective, or (y) in all other cases, on the last day
      prior to the beginning of such calendar
year. 

(B) 

STIP . An
      employee may elect to defer all or part, but not less than $5,000, of his
      or her awards under the Pacific Telesis Group Short Term Incentive Plan,
      or a similar or successor incentive compensation plan or program of
      Pacific Telesis Group or an Affiliate ( STIP ), for services performed in
      a calendar year and otherwise payable in the calendar year following such
      calendar year. Such election may be made with respect to services to be
      performed (i) in the remainder of the year in which the employee first
      becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, provided the election is made
      prior to October 1st of such year, which election shall become effective
      for STIP earned with respect to services performed beginning with the
      payroll period immediately subsequent to the election, or (ii) in the next
      following calendar year, which election on shall become effective on the
      first day of the calendar year to which the election applies in all other
      cases. An election related to the STIP award for services performed in a
      calendar year shall become irrevocable (x) in the case of an election made
      within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan, on
      the last day before the applicable payroll period for which the election
      becomes effective, or (y) in all other cases, on the last day prior to the
      beginning of such calendar year. 

(C) 

LTIP . An
      employee may elect to defer all or part, but not less than $5,000, of his
      or her awards under the Pacific Telesis Group Senior Management Long Term
      Incentive Plan or a similar or successor long term incentive compensation
      plan of Pacific Telesis Group or an Affiliate ( LTIP ), for services
      performed in a multiple-year performance period and otherwise payable in a
      calendar year following such performance period. An election related to
      the LTIP award otherwise payable for services performed in a performance
      period shall become irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning of
      the performance period applicable to that LTIP
  award. 

(D) 

Other Awards .
      An employee may elect to defer all or part of his or her awards under any
      other bonus, special award, or any other similar form of compensation
      ( Other Awards ) otherwise payable to him or her by a participating
      Company with respect to services performed in a calendar year. An election
      related to Other Awards otherwise payable in a calendar year shall become
      irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning of such calendar
      year. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in no event shall deferrals under the Plan include that portion
of Compensation required for all applicable tax, Social Security and employee
benefit plan withholding, whether or not such withholding requirement is related
to this Plan. 

4.2             Form of Election,
Modification or Termination . An employee's election or written notice of
modification or termination of any prior election shall be made in accordance
with procedures established by the Plan Administrator, in the form of a document
approved by the Plan Administrator, executed by the employee and filed with the
Plan Administrator or his or her designee. An election which has not become
irrevocable may be modified, terminated or reinstated by the employee prior to
the time such election would have become irrevocable as provided in Section 4.1.
An election with respect to Salary, STIP or Other Awards for services performed
in a calendar year and/or with respect to LTIP for services performed in a
multiple-year performance period shall be deemed irrevocably terminated when the
employee, whether by transfer or termination of employment, ceases to be
eligible to participate in the Plan during such calendar year and/or such
multiple-year performance period (as applicable). 

4.3             Modification of Irrevocable
Election by the Committee . Upon receipt of a written request made by or
on behalf of an employee, the Committee in its sole discretion may modify or
terminate the employee's election with respect to Compensation otherwise payable
in a calendar year as it deems necessary to prevent extreme financial hardship
to the employee, notwithstanding that the election has become effective and
irrevocable as provided in Section 4.1. 

4.4             Allocation to
Accounts . Deferred amounts related to Compensation which would otherwise
have been paid by a participating Company shall be credited to the employee's
account as of the date the Compensation would otherwise have been paid. Deferred
amounts related to Compensation which would otherwise have been distributed in
Pacific Telesis Group common shares shall be credited to the employee's account
as deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares as of the date such Pacific Telesis
Group shares would otherwise have been transferred to the employee. 

SECTION
5.                                 Company
Match . 

5.1             Eligibility for Company
Match . An employee who (A) elects to defer Compensation under the Plan
for a calendar year, and (B) has made the maximum elective deferral under the
Savings Plan permitted by section 402(g) of the Code for such calendar year
(except to the extent that a further limitation is required by section 401
(k)(3) and/or section 415 of the Code), shall be eligible to have additional
amounts based on Compensation deferred pursuant to this Plan ("Company Match")
credited to his or her account hereunder. 

5.2             Amount of Company
Match . The Company Match credited to an employee's account under this
Plan with respect to Compensation deferred during a calendar year shall be equal
to 

(A) 

the
      amount of Compensation deferred into the employee's Plan account,
      multiplied by 

(B) 

the
      percentage in effect for that calendar year at which the employee's Basic
      Contributions to the Savings Plan are matched by employing Company
      contributions; 

provided,
however, that the maximum Company Match credited to the employee's account under
this Plan shall not exceed 

(C) 

6%
      of the employee's Savings Plan Salary, multiplied
  by 

(D) 

the
      percentage in effect for that calendar year at which the employee's Basic
      Contributions to the Savings Plan are matched by employing Company
      contributions, reduced by 

(E) 

the
      total amount of matching Company contributions credited to the employee's
      account under the Savings Plan. 

For
purposes of determining the amount of Compensation deferred into the employee's
Plan account, deferred Pacific Telesis Group common shares shall be valued by
multiplying the number of shares deferred by the Price of Pacific Telesis Group
common shares on the deferral date. 

5.3             Allocation to
Account . Until fully credited for the calendar year, and subject to the
delay provided in Section 5.4, Company Match shall be credited to an employee's
account under this Plan as of each date that deferred Compensation is credited
to the employee's account under this Plan. 

5.4             Maximum Pre-Tax Savings Plan
Deferrals Required . No Company Match shall be credited to an employee's
account for a calendar year until the employee has made before-tax contributions
under the Savings Plan equal to the maximum elective deferrals permitted under
section 402(g) of the Code, as further limited by section 401 (k)(3) of the
Code. Thereafter, the employee's account shall immediately be credited with
an amount equal to the Company Match that would otherwise have been previously
credited under Section 5.3. 

5.5             Savings Plan Provisions
Prevail . The provisions of this Section 5 shall not limit or affect the
application of the provisions regarding matching Company contributions in the
Savings Plan, which shall take precedence over the provisions of this Section
5. 

SECTION
6.             Earnings on
Accounts . 

6.1             Interest Allocations to
Accounts . Deferred amounts related to Compensation which would otherwise
have been paid in cash shall bear interest from the date the Compensation would
otherwise have been paid. Interest shall be applied to Company Match credited to
an employee's account as if such Company Match had been credited to the
employee's account at the same time that the related amounts of Compensation
deferred hereunder were credited to the employee's account. The interest
credited to an account shall be compounded annually at the end of each calendar
year. 

6.2             Rate of Interest . The
rate of interest to be applied to an employee's aggregate account balance under
the Plan for a calendar year shall be determined by the Committee from time to
time, and promptly communicated to eligible employees in advance of its
application, but in no event shall (A) the interest rate be decreased below the
average 10-Year Treasury note rate, (B) any reduction apply to interest already
credited to Plan accounts for periods prior to the Committee's action, or (C)
any interest rate previously guaranteed for a given period and communicated to
eligible employees be reduced during such period except as may be equitable in
light of any change in applicable law which substantially increases the burden
to the participating Companies of paying such guaranteed interest. 

6.3             Retroactive Limitation of
Interest Accrual in Case of Early Separation . Notwithstanding Section
6.2, an employee whose Separation occurs before he or she attains age 55 will
receive interest on all deferred cash Compensation and Company Match for all
years of participation in the Plan based on the average 10-Year Treasury note
rate, rather than the rate of interest established by the Committee for any
particular calendar year. 

6.4             Dividends and Adjustments
for Pacific Telesis Group Shares . An employee's account credited with
deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares shall be credited on each subsequent
dividend payment date for Pacific Telesis Group shares with an amount equivalent
to the dividend payable on the number of Pacific Telesis Group common shares
equal to the number of deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares in the employee's
account on the record date for such dividend. Such amount shall then be
converted to a number of additional deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares,
determined by dividing such amount by the Price of Pacific Telesis Group common
shares on the dividend payment date. In the event of any change in outstanding
Pacific Telesis Group common shares by reason of any stock dividend or split,
recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or
other similar corporate change, the Committee shall make such adjustments, if
any, that it deems appropriate in the number of deferred Pacific Telesis Group
shares then credited to an employee's account. Any and all such adjustments
shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned. 

SECTION
7.             Distribution . 

7.1             Distribution
Elections . At the time an eligible employee makes an election to defer
Compensation otherwise payable for services performed in a calendar year, the
employee also shall make an election with respect to the distribution, during
the employee's lifetime, of such deferred Compensation, together with Company
Match and earnings credited to the employee's Plan account with respect to such
deferred Compensation. Subject to the provisions on Hardship distributions in
Section 7.6.3 and the provisions on Options for Distribution in the Event of
Death in Section 7.3, distribution elections shall become effective and
irrevocable at the same time the election to defer such Compensation becomes
effective and irrevocable under Section 4.1. 

7.2             Options for Distribution
During Life . An employee may elect to receive the amounts credited to the
employee's Plan account with respect to a deferral election made pursuant to
Section 4.1 (a) in one payment, or (b) in a number of annual installments over a
period of 5, 10, or 15 years, calculated in accordance with procedures
established by the Plan Administrator. As specified by the employee,
distributions shall commence as soon as practicable after 

(A) 

the
      first day of the calendar year next following the employee's
      Separation; 

(B) 

the
      first day of the fifth calendar year next following the employee's
      Separation; or 

(C) 

the
      first day of the calendar year next following the employee's attainment of
      a specified age between 59 1/2 and
70. 

All
amounts credited to an employee's Plan account with respect to which he or she
has elected distribution in the same form and commencing at the same time shall
be aggregated as a single Distribution Account. Notwithstanding the employee's
election under this Section 7.2 with respect to the time and form of
distribution for each such Distribution Account, if the aggregate of all amounts
credited to an employee's Distribution Account is less than $50,000 at the time
of such employee's Separation, such Distribution Account shall be distributed in
a single payment as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar year
next following the employee's Separation. 

7.3             Options for Distribution In
the Event of Death . An employee may elect that, in the event the employee
should die before full payment of all amounts credited to the employee's Plan
account, the balance of the employee's Plan account shall be distributed to the
beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the employee 

(A) 

in
      one payment, paid as soon as practicable after the first day of the
      calendar year next following the year of the employee's
    death; 

(B) 

in
      10 annual installments, calculated in accordance with procedures
      established by the Plan Administrator, commencing as soon as practicable
      after the first day of the calendar year next following the year of the
      employee's death, provided that if the aggregate of all amounts credited
      to an employee's Plan Account is less than $50,000 at the time of such
      employee's death, such Distribution Account shall be distributed in a
      single payment as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar
      year next following the employee's death;
or 

(C) 

by
      a continuation of the distribution times and forms elected under Section
      7.2 (in the case of an employee who dies before commencement of
      distributions, using as any specified age the date the employee would have
      attained that age if he or she had continued to live), subject to the
      single payment distribution of a Distribution Account credited with less
      than $50,000 at the time of the employee's death, as set forth in Section
      7.2. 

If no
election has been made under this Section 7.3, the balance of the employee's
deferred account shall be distributed in one payment as soon as practicable
after the first day of the calendar year next following the year of the
employee's death. if no beneficiary designation has been made, distribution
shall be made to the estate of the employee. 

7.4             Form of Elections .
Distribution elections and beneficiary designations shall be made in writing in
the form of a document or documents approved by the Plan Administrator, executed
by the employee and filed with the Plan Administrator or his or her designee. An
employee may designate one or more individuals or a trust as his or her
beneficiary, and may change the beneficiary designation at any time, effective
upon receipt by the Plan Administrator or his or her designee. 

7.5             Form and Timing of
Distribution . Amounts credited to an employee's Plan account as cash plus
accumulated interest, less applicable withholding taxes, shall be distributed in
cash. Amounts credited as deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares, less applicable
withholding taxes, shall be distributed in the form of whole Pacific Telesis
Group common shares, plus cash for any fractional share. Installment
distributions subsequent to the first installment shall be paid on or about the
anniversary date of the first annual installment until the entire balance of the
employee's Plan account is paid. Account balances held pending distribution
shall continue to be credited with interest or additional deferred Pacific
Telesis Group shares, as applicable, determined in accordance with Section
6. 

7.6             Distributions Not in
Accordance with Elections . 

7.6.1          Postponement of
Payment . The Committee may postpone payment of Plan benefits to an
employee (A) who, in the year Plan benefits would otherwise be payable, is a
"covered employee" for purposes of the $1 million limitation on deductible
compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, and (B) whose compensation for
the year in which Plan benefits would otherwise be payable would, but for such
postponement, exceed the $1 million limit on deductibility. In addition,
notwithstanding an election pursuant to Section 7.2, at the sole discretion of
the Committee, in the event that an employee's Separation is on account of total
and permanent disability, as determined by the Committee, the Committee may
postpone payment of Plan benefits to such employee to commence in a year later
than the year in which his or her Plan benefits would otherwise be payable upon
such Separation, provided that no such postponement shall extend beyond the
earlier of (a) ten years from the date of Separation, or (b) the year in which
such employee attains age 65. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the following shall apply solely with respect to Plan
participants who, as of December 31, 2004, were employed by an affiliate of
AT T Inc. and who had not attained age fifty-five (55): 

7.6.1        Postponement of
Payment.    If the Committee reasonably anticipates that the
payment of any or all of an employee s Plan benefits, if made as scheduled,
would not be deductible due to the application of Code Section 162(m), the
distribution of such employee s Plan benefits may be delayed to (A) the end of
the employee s first taxable year in which the Committee reasonably anticipates
(or should reasonably anticipate) that the deduction of such payment would not
be barred by application of Code Section 162(m), or (B) the 15 th  day of
the third month of the year following the year of the employee s separation from
service; provided, however, this delayed payment provision shall apply only to
the extent all payments of non-qualified deferred compensation from plans
sponsored by AT T Inc. (or any affiliate) are similarly
delayed. 

7.6.2           Immediate Single
Payment . Notwithstanding an election Pursuant to Section 7.2, at the sole
discretion of the Committee the entire amount then credited to the employee's
account shall be paid as soon as practicable in a single payment if an employee
is involuntarily terminated by his or her Company or becomes employed by a
governmental agency having jurisdiction over the activities of Pacific Telesis
Group or any of its Affiliates. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the following shall apply solely with respect to Plan
participants who, as of December 31, 2004, were employed by an affiliate of
AT T Inc. and who had not attained age fifty-five (55): 

7.6.2        Immediate Single
Payment.   Notwithstanding an election pursuant to Section 7.2,
at the sole discretion of the Committee the entire amount then credited to the
employee's account shall be paid as soon as practicable in a single payment if
an employee becomes employed by a governmental agency having jurisdiction over
the activities of Pacific Telesis Group or any of its Affiliates to the extent
(A) necessary for any employee in the executive branch of the United States
government to comply with an ethics agreement with the Federal government, or
(B) reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of an applicable Federal, state
or local ethics law or conflicts of interest law (including where such payment
is reasonably necessary to permit the employee to participate in activities in
the normal course of the employee s position in which the employee would
otherwise not be able to participate under an applicable rule).  For
purposes of this section, a payment is reasonably necessary to avoid the
violation of a Federal, state or local ethics law or conflicts of interest law
if the payment is a necessary part of a course of action that results in
compliance with a Federal, state or local ethics law or conflicts of interest
law that would be violated absent such course of action, regardless of whether
other actions would also result in compliance with Federal, state or local
ethics law or conflicts of interest law. 

7.6.3             Hardship
Distribution . Upon receipt of a written request made by or on behalf of
an employee, the Committee in its sole discretion may authorize a Hardship
distribution from the employee's Plan account. For purposes of the Plan,
"Hardship" means an unanticipated emergency that is caused by an event beyond
the control of the employee and that would result in severe financial hardship
if early distribution were not permitted. As determined by the Committee in its
sole discretion, Hardship may include one or more of the following. 

(A) 

A
      sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the
  employee; 

(B) 

Extraordinary
      and unreimbursed medical or hospital expenses incurred by the employee or
      a member of his or her family or a
relative; 

(C) 

The
      loss of the employee's property due to casualty;
  or 

(D) 

Any
      other similar unforeseeable emergency that is caused by an event beyond
      the control of the employee and would impose a severe financial hardship
      if early distribution were not
permitted. 

A
distribution based on Hardship cannot exceed the amount required to meet the
immediate financial need created by the Hardship and not reasonably available
from other resources of the employee, including reimbursement or compensation by
insurance or otherwise; provided that an employee shall not be required to
request a hardship distribution from the Savings Plan in order to receive a
Hardship distribution under this Plan. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the following shall apply solely with respect to Plan
participants who, as of December 31, 2004, were employed by an affiliate of
AT T Inc. and who had not attained age fifty-five (55): 

7.6.3        Unforeseeable Emergency
Distribution.   Upon receipt of a written request made by or on
behalf of an employee, the Committee in its sole discretion may authorize a
distribution from the employee's Plan account in the event of an unforeseeable
emergency. For purposes of the Plan, "unforeseeable emergency" means (A) a
severe financial hardship to the employee resulting from an illness or accident
of the employee, the employee s spouse, the employee s beneficiary, or the
employee s dependent (as defined in Code Section 152 without regard to Code
Section 152(b)(1), (b)(2) and (d)(1)(B)), (B) loss of he employee s property due
to casualty, or (C) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances
arising as a result of events beyond the control of the employee.  As
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, Hardship may include one or
more of the following: 

(A) 

the
      imminent foreclosure of or eviction from the employee s primary residence;
      ; 

(B) 

the
      need to pay for medical expenses, including non-refundable deductibles, as
      well as for the costs of prescription drug medication;
  or 

(C) 

the
      need to pay for the funeral expense of a spouse, a beneficiary, or a
      dependent (as defined in Code Section 152 without regard to Code Section
      152(b)(1), (b)(2) and (d)(1)(B)) 

A
distribution on account of an unforeseeable emergency may not be made to the
extent that such emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or
compensation from insurance or otherwise, or by liquidation of the employee s
assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe
financial hardship. Distributions based on an unforeseeable emergency cannot
exceed the amount reasonably necessary to meet the emergency need (which may
include amounts necessary to pay any Federal, state or local income taxes or
penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the
distribution).  However, an employee shall not be required to request
a  hardship distribution or unforeseeable emergency distribution that
might be available from the 401(k) plan or other nonqualified deferred
compensation plan in which the employee participates. 

The
following two provisions shall apply with respect to Plan participants who, as
of December 31, 2004, were employed by an affiliate of AT T Inc. and who had
not attained age fifty-five (55): 

7.6.4        Distributions to Specified
Employees.   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to
the contrary (other than Plan Section 7.6.2), if an employee is a  specified
employee  within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i),
distribution shall be made in accordance with the employee s distribution
election, provided, however, that no distribution shall be made to such employee
on account of separation from service before the date that is six (6) months
after the date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of
such employee). 

7.6.5        Distributions Upon Income
Inclusion Under Code Section 409A.   Distributions to an
employee may commence at any time the Plan fails to meet the requirements of
Code Section 409A and the regulation issued thereunder, as applicable to and
with respect to such employee; provided, however, the amount of such
distribution shall exceed the amount required to be included in income as a
result of the failure to comply with such requirements. 

7.7            Payment Obligation .
The obligation to distribute benefits under the Plan shall be borne primarily by
the last Company to employ an employee in a position eligible to participate in
the Plan immediately prior to the distribution. A Company s withdrawal from
participation in the Plan shall not affect that Company's liability hereunder.
If for any reason the primarily liable Company fails to make timely payment of a
amount due under the Plan, Pacific Telesis Group shall be secondarily liable for
the obligation. 

SECTION
8.            Administration: Claims and
Review Procedures . 

8.1             Plan Administrator .
The Plan Administrator shall be the Executive Vice President- Human Resources
Pacific Telesis Group, or his or her deligee. The Plan Administrator shall have
the authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including sole discretion to
determine the rights of an employee or beneficiary under the Plan, and to
authorize disbursements under the Plan, except for decisions expressly reserved
by the Plan for the Committee or for the PTG Board or the Board of Directors of
an Affiliate. 

8.2             Initial Claim
Unnecessary . No claim for benefits shall be required for commencement of
distributions in accordance with an employee's election under Sections 7.2 and
7.3 of the Plan. The obligation of a Company to make distributions under the
Plan shall not be affected by any action or inaction (on the part of an
employee, his beneficiaries or any Company) with respect to amounts owed,
including but not limited to the failure to make timely demand, the granting of
extensions of time or other indulgences, the failure to make timely payment or
the failure to give notices other than those prescribed in Section
8.3. 

8.3             Review of   Adverse Decisions . An
employee or beneficiary who disagrees with a decision by the Plan Administrator
relating to the payment of benefits under the Plan may submit a claim requesting
Plan benefits in writing to the Committee, which shall respond in writing. A
claim shall be deemed denied unless the response is sent within 90 days (or
within 180 days, if the Committee extends the time to respond by notifying the
claimant in writing of the special circumstances requiring an extension and the
date by which the response is expected). If the claim is denied in whole or
part, the response shall state (A) the specific reasons, making specific
reference to pertinent provisions of the Plan; (B) what additional information,
if any, would help perfect the claim for benefits; and (C) what steps the
claimant must take to submit the claim for review. Within 60 days after the date
of a denial, a claimant may file a written request for the PTG Board of
Directors to review the denial. Notwithstanding Section 8.2 of the Plan, such
request for review must be made in a timely manner for the purpose of seeking
any further review of a decision or determining any entitlement to a benefit
under the Plan. The PTG Board shall notify the claimant in writing of the review
decision, specifying the reasons for the decision and the Plan provisions on
which it is based. A claim shall be deemed denied unless the decision on appeal
is sent within 60 days (or within 120 days, if the PTG Board extends the time to
respond by notifying the claimant in writing). The Plan Administrator, Committee
and PTG Board shall retain such right, authority and discretion as are provided
or not expressly limited in section 503 of ERISA and the regulations thereunder
and, if the Committee denies a claim upon review, the claimant shall have such
further rights of review as are provided therein. 

SECTION
9.             Amendment and
Termination . 

9.1             Amendment .  The
PTG Board of Directors may at any time make changes in the Plan, but such
amendment shall have prospective effect only and shall not adversely affect the
rights of any employee, without his or her consent, to any benefit under the
Plan to which such employee was entitled prior to the effective date of
amendment. Changes in the interest rate applied to Plan account balances as
determined by the Committee from time to time in accordance with Section 6.2 of
the Plan shall not be deemed to be Plan amendments, notwithstanding that they
apply to Compensation previously earned and deferred. The Executive Vice
President - Human Resources of Pacific Telesis Group, with the approval of the
Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Pacific Telesis Group, shall be
authorized to make minor or administrative changes to the Plan. 

9.2             Termination .  The
PTG Board of Directors may at any time terminate the Plan. Any termination of
the Plan shall not terminate the deferral of Compensation previously deferred
into a Plan account, but may prevent the deferral of Compensation not yet earned
notwithstanding the employee's prior election to defer such
Compensation. 

SECTION
10.           Definitions . 

For
purposes of this Plan, the following words shall have the meaning so defined
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

10.1              Affiliate   as the
term relates to Pacific Telesis Group, means a subsidiary of or other entity
that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with Pacific Telesis
Group, as the case may be. As used herein, "control" means the possession,
directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the
management and policies of such entity, whether through ownership of voting
securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise. 

10.2            " PTG Board of
Directors " or   PTG Board   means the
Board of Directors of Pacific Telesis Group. 

10.3              Code   means the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder. 

10.4              Committee   means the
Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of Pacific
Telesis Group. 

10.5              Company   shall mean
Pacific Telesis Group, Pacific Bell or any other corporation which is an
Affiliate of Pacific Telesis Group. 

10.6            "Officer"
means an officer of a Company, as determined by the Plan Administrator, but the
term shall not include Assistant Secretary, Assistant Treasurer, Assistant
Comptroller or any other assistant officer. 

10.7              Price   with respect
to Pacific Telesis Group common shares as of a particular date means the average
of the daily high and low sale prices of Pacific Telesis Group common shares on
the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") for the period of five trading days ending
on such date, or the period of five trading days immediately preceding such date
if the NYSE is closed on the date. 

10.8            " Savings Plan " means
the Pacific Telesis Group Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Salaried
Employees. 

10.9            " Savings Plan Salary "
means "Salary" as defined in the Pacific Telesis Group Supplemental Retirement
and Savings Plan for Salaried Employees, without reduction for deferrals of
salary under this Plan and without regard to the limit on compensation under
section 401(a)(17) of the Code. If an eligible employee is employed by a
participating Company for only a portion of a calendar year or is on a leave of
absence for a portion of a calendar year, the employee's Savings Plan Salary is
prorated to reflect only the period during which the employee was actively
employed by a participating Company. 

10.10             Separation   means
retirement or termination from all employment with Pacific Telesis Group or its
Affiliates. 

</EX-10.U>

<EX-10.W>
 16
 ex10w.htm
 1995 MANAGEMENT STOCK OPTION PLAN

ex10w.htm 

Exhibit 10-w 

1995
MANAGEMENT STOCK OPTION PLAN 

Plan
Effective:  January 1, 1996 

      Revisions
Effective:  November 16, 2001 

AT T
INC. 

      1995
MANAGEMENT STOCK OPTION PLAN 

ARTICLE
1.  PURPOSE, DEFINITIONS AND EFFECTIVE DATE  

1.1 

Purpose .  The
      purpose of the 1995 Management Stock Option Plan ("Plan") is to promote
      the success and enhance the value of AT T Inc. (the "Company") by
      linking the personal interests of the Employees of the Company and its
      Subsidiaries to the interests of the Company's shareowners, and by
      providing Employees with an additional incentive for outstanding
      performance. 

1.2 

Additional
      Definitions . In addition to definitions set forth elsewhere in the
      Plan, for purposes of the Plan: 

(a)   

"Cause"
      shall mean willful and gross misconduct on the part of a Participant that
      is materially and demonstrably detrimental to the Company or any
      Subsidiary as determined by the Company in its sole
      discretion. 

(b) 

Disability 
      shall mean absence of an Employee from work under the relevant Company or
      Subsidiary disability plan. 

(c) 

"Employee"
      shall mean any employee of the Company or of one of the Company s
      Subsidiaries.  Directors who are not otherwise employed by the
      Company or one of its Subsidiaries shall not be considered Employees under
      the Plan. 

(d) 

"Exchange
      Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any
      successor Act thereto. 

(e) 

"Fair
      Market Value" shall mean the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange
      ( NYSE ) for Shares on the relevant date, or if such date was not a
      trading day, the next preceding trading date, all as determined by the
      Company.  A trading day is any day that the Shares are traded on
      the NYSE.  In lieu of the foregoing, the Committee may select
      any other index or measurement to determine the Fair Market Value of
      Shares under the Plan. 

(f) 

"Option"
      shall mean the right to purchase one or more shares of the common stock of
      AT T Inc. on the terms and conditions contained in this Plan, the
      rules of the Committee, and the terms of the Option.   Awards 
      shall mean Options. 

(g) 

Participant 
      shall mean an Employee or former Employee that participates in this
      Plan. 

(h) 

"Retirement"
      shall mean the termination of a Participant's employment with the Company
      or one of its Subsidiaries, for reasons other than death, Disability or
      for Cause, on or after the date Participant has attained one of the
      following combinations of age and service at termination of employment on
      or after April 1, 1997, except as otherwise indicated
    below: 

With
respect to a Participant who is granted an EMP Service Pension under and
pursuant to the provisions of the AT T Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained
Program upon termination of employment, the term "Retirement" shall include such
Participant's termination of employment. 

In
determining whether a Participant's Termination of Employment under the Enhanced
Pension and Retirement Program ("EPR") is a Retirement as defined above, 5 years
shall be added to each of Age and Net Credited Service. 

(i) 

"Rotational
      Work Assignment Company"("RWAC") shall mean any entity with which AT T
      Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries may enter into an agreement to provide an
      employee for a rotational work
assignment. 

(j) 

"Shares"
      or "Stock" or "Shares of Stock" shall mean the common stock of AT T
      Inc. 

(k) 

"Subsidiary"
      shall mean any corporation in which the Company owns directly, or
      indirectly through subsidiaries, more than fifty percent (50%) of the
      total combined voting power of all classes of Stock, or any other entity
      (including, but not limited to, partnerships and joint ventures) in which
      the Company owns more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined equity
      thereof. 

1.3 

Effective
      Date .  The Plan shall be effective on the date it is
      approved by the Company's Board of
Directors. 

ARTICLE
2.  ADMINISTRATION  

2.1 

The
      Committee .  The Plan shall be administered by a committee
      (the "Committee") which shall be the Human Resources Committee or any
      other committee appointed by the Board of Directors (the
      "Board"). 

2.2   

Authority of the
      Committee . The Committee shall have full power, except as
      limited by law 

and
subject to the provisions herein, in its sole and exclusive discretion: to grant
Awards; to select the recipients of Awards; to determine the eligibility of a
person to participate in the Plan or to receive a particular Award; to determine
the sizes and types of Awards; to determine the terms and conditions of such
Awards in a manner consistent with the Plan; to construe and interpret the Plan
and any agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; to establish,
amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan's administration; and
(subject to the provisions of Article 5 herein) to amend the terms and
conditions of any outstanding Award to the extent such terms and conditions are
within the discretion of the Committee as provided in the
Plan.  Further, the Committee shall make all other determinations in
its discretion which may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the
Plan. 

References
to determinations or other actions by the Company, herein, shall mean actions
authorized by the Committee, the Chairman of the Board of the Company, the
Senior Executive Vice President of the Company in charge of Human Resources or
their respective successors or duly authorized delegates, in each case in the
discretion of such person. 

All
determinations and decisions made by the Company pursuant to the provisions of
the Plan, and all related orders and resolutions of the Board shall be final,
conclusive, and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders,
Employees, Participants, and their estates and beneficiaries. 

ARTICLE 3.  SHARES
SUBJECT TO THE PLAN  

3.1 

Number of
      Shares .  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.3
       Adjustments in
      Authorized Shares , herein, the total number of Shares of Stock for
      which Options may be granted under the Plan may not exceed 160,000,000
      Shares.  These Shares may be either authorized but unissued or
      reacquired Shares.  The Committee or the Board may amend this
      Plan to increase the number of authorized
  Shares. 

3.2 

Lapsed
      Options .  If any Option granted under the Plan is
      canceled, terminates, expires, or lapses for any reason, any Shares
      subject to such Option again shall be available for the grant of an Option
      under the Plan. 

3.3 

Adjustments in
      Authorized Shares .  In the event of a merger,
      reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, separation, liquidation,
      stock dividend, stock split, share combination, or other change in the
      corporate structure of the Company affecting the Shares, such adjustment
      shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered
      under the Plan, and in the number and class of and/or price of Shares
      subject to outstanding Options granted under the Plan, as may be
      determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole
      discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights; and provided
      that the number of Shares subject to any Option shall always be a whole
      number. 

ARTICLE 4.  STOCK
OPTIONS  

4.1 

Grant of
      Options .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the
      Plan, Options may be granted to such Employees, at such times and on such
      terms and conditions, as shall be determined by the Committee; provided,
      however, no Options may be granted after the 10th anniversary of the
      effective date of the Plan.  The Committee or the Board shall
      have discretion in determining the number of Options and the number of
      Shares subject to each Option granted to each
      Participant.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
      the Committee shall have the authority to establish guidelines setting
      forth anticipated grant levels which correspond to various salary grades,
      salary ranges or the equivalent
thereof. 

4.2 

Form of
      Issuance .  Options may be issued in the form of a
      certificate or may be recorded on the books and records of the Company for
      the account of the Participant.  If an Option is not issued in
      the form of a certificate, then the Option shall be deemed granted upon
      issuance of a notice of the grant addressed to the
      recipient.  The terms and conditions of an Option shall be set
      forth in the certificate, in the notice of the issuance of the grant, or
      in such other documents as the Committee shall determine.  The
      Committee may require a Participant to enter into a written agreement
      containing terms and conditions relating to the Option and its
      exercise. 

4.3 

Option
      Price .  The Option Price for each grant of an Option
      shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, that the minimum
      Option Price shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value
      of a Share on the date the Option is granted.  If the Committee
      does not specify an Option Price then the Option Price shall be the Fair
      Market Value of a Share on the date the Option is
  granted. 

4.4   

Duration of
      Options .  Each Option shall expire at such time as the
      Committee shall determine at the time of grant provided, however, that no
      Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date
      of its grant.  In the event the Committee does not specify the
      expiration date of an Option, then such Option will expire on the tenth
      (10 th )
      anniversary date of its grant, except as otherwise provided
      herein.  For options granted before June 29, 2001, the foregoing
      reference to  tenth (10 th )
      anniversary  shall be replaced with  fifth (5 th )
      anniversary . 

4.5 

Vesting of
      Options .  Options shall vest at such times and under such
      terms and conditions as determined by the Committee provided, however,
      unless another vesting period is provided by the Committee at or before
      the grant of an Option, one-third of the Options will vest on each of the
      first three anniversaries of the grant; if one Option remains after
      equally dividing the grant by three, it will vest on the first anniversary
      of the grant, if two Options remain, then one will vest on each of the
      first two anniversaries.  The Committee shall have the right to
      accelerate the vesting of any Option; however, the Chairman of the Board
      or the Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources, or their
      respective successors, or such other persons designated by the Committee,
      shall have the authority to accelerate the vesting of Options for any
      Employee who is not at that time an officer, director or ten percent
      beneficial owner, as those terms are defined under Section 16 of the
      Exchange Act. 

4.6. 

Exercise of
      Options .  Options granted under the Plan shall be
      exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and
      conditions as the Committee or the Board shall in each instance approve,
      which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.
      Exercises of Options may be effected only on days and during the hours
      that the New York Stock Exchange is open for regular
      trading.  The Company may further change or limit the times or
      days Options may be exercised.  If an Option expires on a day or
      at a time when exercises are not permitted, then the Options may be
      exercised no later than the immediately preceding date and time that the
      Options were exercisable. 

Options
      shall be exercised by providing notice to the designated agent selected by
      the Company (if no such agent has been designated, then to the Company),
      in the manner and form determined by the Company, which notice shall be
      irrevocable, setting forth the exact number of Shares with respect to
      which the Option is being exercised and including with such notice payment
      of the Option Price.  When Options have been transferred, the
      Company or its designated agent may require appropriate documentation that
      the person or persons exercising the Option, if other than the
      Participant, has the right to exercise the Option.  No Option
      may be exercised with respect to a fraction of a
  Share. 

4.7 

Payment .  The
      Option Price shall be paid in full at the time of exercise.  No
      Shares shall be issued or transferred until full payment has been received
      therefor. 

Payment may be made: 

(a)            in
cash, or 

(b) 

unless
      otherwise provided by the Committee at any time, and subject to such
      additional terms and conditions and/or modifications as the Committee or
      the Company may impose from time to time, and further subject to
      suspension or termination of this provision by the Committee or the
      Company at any time, by: 

(i) 

delivery
      of Shares of Stock owned by the Participant in partial (if in partial
      payment, then together with cash) or full payment; provided, however, as a
      condition to paying any part of the Option Price in Stock, at the time of
      exercise of the Option, the Participant must establish to the satisfaction
      of the Company that the Stock tendered to the Company must have been held
      by the Participant for a minimum of six (6) months preceding the tender;
      or 

(ii) 

if
      the Company has designated a stockbroker to act as the Company s agent to
      process Option exercises, issuance of an exercise notice to such
      stockbroker together with instructions irrevocably instructing the
      stockbroker:  (A) to immediately sell (which shall include an
      exercise notice that becomes effective upon execution of a sell order) a
      sufficient portion of the Shares to pay the Option Price of the Options
      being exercised and the required tax withholding, and (B) to deliver on
      the settlement date the portion of the proceeds of the sale equal to the
      Option Price and tax withholding to the Company.  In the event
      the stockbroker sells any Shares on behalf of a Participant, the
      stockbroker shall be acting solely as the agent of the Participant, and
      the Company disclaims any responsibility for the actions of the
      stockbroker in making any such sales.  No Stock shall be issued
      until the settlement date and until the proceeds (equal to the Option
      Price and tax withholding) are paid to the
  Company. 

If payment is made by the delivery
of Shares of Stock, the value of the Shares delivered shall be equal to the Fair
Market Value of the Shares on the day preceding the date of exercise of the
Option. 

Restricted Stock may not be used to pay
the Option Price. 

4.8   

Termination of
      Employment .  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee,
      the following limitations on exercise of Options shall apply upon
      termination of employment: 

(a) 

Termination by Reason
      of Death or Disability .  In the event the employment of a
      Participant is terminated by reason of death or Disability any outstanding
      Options granted to the Participant shall vest as of the date of
      termination of employment and may be exercised, if at all, no more than
      one (1) year following termination of employment, unless the Options, by
      their terms, expire earlier.  For options granted on and after
      May 1, 1997, the above referenced exercise period of  one (1) year  shall
      be  three (3) years.  

(b) 

Termination by
      Retirement .  In the event the employment of a Participant
      is terminated by reason of
Retirement: 

(i)           Upon
the Participant's termination of employment, all outstanding unvested Options
granted to the Participant shall vest as of the date of the Participant's
termination of employment; provided, however, this provision shall not apply to
a Participant who, as determined by AT T, is an officer level employee for
compensation purposes unless the employee is age 55 or older at termination of
employment, nor shall this provision apply to a Participant who is an EPR
Terminee (as that term is defined in the AT T Pension Benefit Plan or the
Ameritech Management Pension Plan); provided further, however, this vesting
provision shall not apply to an Option granted prior to September 28, 2001,
unless and except for those Options outstanding as of September 27, 2001, that
have an Option Price equal to or more than the Fair Market Value of Stock on
such date; and 

(ii)           Any
outstanding Options granted to the Participant which are vested as of the date
of termination of employment may be exercised, if at all, no more than three (3)
years following termination of employment, unless the Options, by their terms,
expire earlier.   For options granted on and after May 1, 1997,
the above referenced exercise period of  three (3) years  shall be  five (5)
years.   If the Participant is Retirement eligible at the time the
Participant terminates employment by reason of death or disability (as defined
above) after March 31, 2000, then for purposes of this section, the Participant
shall be deemed to have terminated employment by reason of
Retirement. 

(c) 

Termination of
      Employment for Other Reasons .  If the employment of a
      Participant shall terminate for any reason other than the reasons set
      forth in (a) or (b), above, and other than for Cause, all outstanding
      Options granted to the Participant which are vested as of the date of
      termination of employment may be exercised by the Participant within the
      period beginning on the effective date of termination of employment and
      ending three (3) months after such date, unless the Options, by their
      terms, expire earlier.  For options granted on and after May 1,
      1997 but before January 26, 2001, the above referenced exercise period of
       three (3) months  shall be  one (1)
year.  

(d) 

Termination for
      Cause .  If the employment of a Participant shall
      terminate for Cause, all outstanding Options held by the Participant shall
      immediately terminate and be forfeited to the Company, and no additional
      exercise period shall be allowed. 

(e) 

Options not Vested at
      Termination .  Any outstanding Options not vested as of
      the effective date of termination of employment shall expire immediately
      and shall be forfeited to the
Company. 

4.9 

Transfers .  For
      purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment of a Participant between the
      Company and any one of its Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) or
      between the Company or a Subsidiary and a RWAC, to the extent the term of
      employment at a RWAC is equal to or less than five (5) years, shall not be
      deemed a termination of employment under this Plan.  Provided,
      however termination of employment with a RWAC without a concurrent
      transfer to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a
      termination of employment as that term is used in this
      Plan.  Similarly, termination of an entity s status as a
      Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall be deemed a termination of employment of any
      Participants employed by such Subsidiary or
  RWAC. 

4.10 

Restrictions on
      Exercise and Transfer of Options . Unless otherwise provided by the
      Committee; 

(a) 

During
      the Participant s lifetime, the Participant s Options shall be exercisable
      only by the Participant or by the Participant s guardian or legal
      representative.  After the death of the Participant, except as
      otherwise provided by the Company s Rules for Employee Beneficiary
      Designations, as the same may be amended from time to time, an Option
      shall only be exercised by the holder thereof (including, but not limited
      to, an executor or administrator of a decedent s estate) or his or her
      guardian or legal representative. 

(b) 

No
      Option shall be transferable except: (a) in the case of the Participant,
      only upon the Participant s death and in accordance with the Company s
      Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, as the same may be amended
      from time to time; and (b) in the case of any holder after the
      Participant s death, only by will or by the laws of descent and
      distribution. 

4.11 

Change in
      Control . Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, unless
      otherwise determined by the Committee or the Board prior to such Change in
      Control, all Options held by Participants hereunder shall immediately
      become vested and exercisable, notwithstanding the provisions of Section
      4.6  Exercise of
      Options  to the contrary.  A "Change in Control" shall be
      deemed to have occurred if (i) any "person" (as such term is used in
      Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a trustee or
      other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
      Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the shareowners
      of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of
      stock of the Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in
      Rule 13d-3 under said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the
      Company representing twenty percent (20%) or more of the total voting
      power represented by the Company's then outstanding voting securities, or
      (ii) during any period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who at
      the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the
      Company and any new Director whose election by the Board of Directors or
      nomination for election by the Company's shareowners was approved by a
      vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Directors then still in office
      who either were Directors at the beginning of the period or whose election
      or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any
      reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the shareowners of the
      Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other
      corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in
      the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
      continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
      converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least eighty
      percent (80%) of the total voting power represented by the voting
      securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately
      after such merger or consolidation, or the shareowners of the Company
      approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for
      the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the
      Company's assets. 

4.12 

Competition
      and Solicitation.  In the event a Participant directly or
      indirectly, engages in competitive activity, or has become associated
      with, employed by, controls, or renders service to any business that is
      engaged in competitive activity, with (i) the Company, (ii) any
      Subsidiary, or (iii) any business in which any of the foregoing have a
      substantial interest, or if the Participant attempts, directly or
      indirectly, to induce any employee of the Company or a Subsidiary to be
      employed or perform services elsewhere without the permission of the
      Company, then the Company may (i) cancel any Option granted to such
      Participant, whether or not vested, in whole or in part; and/or (ii)
      rescind any exercise of the Participant s Options that occurred on or
      after that date six months prior to engaging in such activity, in which
      case the Participant shall pay the Company the gain realized or received
      upon such exercise of Options.  "Has become associated with"
      shall include, among other things, beneficial ownership of 1/10 of 1% or
      more of a business engaged in competitive activity.  The
      determination of whether a Participant has engaged in any such activity
      and whether to cancel Options and/or rescind the exercise of Options shall
      be made by AT T, and in each case such determination shall be final,
      conclusive and binding on all
persons. 

ARTICLE
5.  AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, AND TERMINATION  

5.1 

Amendment,
      Modification, and Termination .  The Committee or the
      Board, may at any time and from time to time, terminate, amend, or modify
      the Plan. 

5.2 

Awards Previously
      Granted .  No termination, amendment, or modification of
      the Plan shall in any material manner adversely affect any Option
      previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the
      Participant holding such Option. 

ARTICLE
6.  WITHHOLDING  

6.1   

Tax
      Withholding .  Upon exercise of an Option, the Company
      shall withhold Shares sufficient in value, using the Fair Market Value on
      the date determined by the Company to be used to value the Shares for tax
      purposes, to satisfy the minimum amount of Federal, state, and local taxes
      required by law to be withheld as a result of such
    exercise. 

Any
      fractional share of Stock payable to a Participant shall be withheld as
      additional Federal withholding, or, at the option of the Company, paid in
      cash to the Participant. 

Unless
      otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method of payment for the
      Option Price is from the sale by a stockbroker pursuant to Section
      4.7(b)(ii), hereof, of the Stock acquired through the Option exercise,
      then the tax withholding shall be satisfied out of the
      proceeds.  For administrative purposes in determining the amount
      of taxes due, the sale price of such Stock shall be deemed to be the Fair
      Market Value of the Stock. 

ARTICLE
7.  MISCELLANEOUS  

7.1 

Employment .  Nothing
      in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the
      Company or any Subsidiary thereof to terminate any Participant's
      employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to
      continue in the employment of the Company or any Subsidiary
      thereof. 

7.2 

Participation .  No
      Employee shall have the right to be selected to receive an Option under
      the Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future
      Option. 

7.3 

Successors .  All
      obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be binding on any
      successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the
      result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or
      otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of
      the Company. 

7.4   

Governing Law .
      To the extent not preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all awards and
      agreements hereunder, and any and all disputes in connection therewith,
      shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws
      of the State of Texas, without regard to conflict or choice of law
      principles which might otherwise refer the construction, interpretation or
      enforceability of this Plan to the substantive law of another
      jurisdiction. 

Because
awards under the Plan are granted in Texas, records relating to the Plan and
awards thereunder are located in Texas, and the Plan and awards thereunder are
administered in Texas, the Company and the Participant to whom an award under
this Plan is granted, for themselves and their successors and assigns,
irrevocably submit to the exclusive and sole jurisdiction and venue of the state
or federal courts of Texas with respect to any and all disputes arising out of
or relating to this Plan, the subject matter of this Plan or any awards under
this Plan, including but not limited to any disputes arising out of or relating
to the interpretation and enforceability of any awards or the terms and
conditions of this Plan.  To achieve certainty regarding the
appropriate forum in which to prosecute and defend actions arising out of or
relating to this Plan, and to ensure consistency in application and
interpretation of the Governing Law to the Plan, the parties agree that (a) sole
and exclusive appropriate venue for any such action shall be an appropriate
federal or state court in Bexar County, Texas, and no other, (b) all claims with
respect to any such action shall be heard and   determined exclusively in such Texas court,
and no other, (c) such Texas court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction
over the person of such parties and over the subject matter of any dispute
relating hereto and (d) that the parties waive any and all objections and
defenses to bringing any such action before such Texas court, including but not
limited to those relating to lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue or
 forum non
conveniens . 

7.5 

Gender and
      Number.   Except where otherwise indicated by the context,
      any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural
      shall include the singular and the singular shall include the
      plural. 

7.6 

Severability.   In
      the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for
      any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining
      parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the
      illegal or invalid provision had not been
  included. 

7.7 

Requirements of
      Law.   The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares
      under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and
      regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or
      national securities exchanges as may be
  required. 

7.8 

Errors.   At
      any time AT T may correct any error made under the Plan without
      prejudice to AT T.  Such corrections may include, among
      other things, changing or revoking an issuance of an
  Award. 

7.9 

Elections and
      Notices.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
      contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of every kind shall be
      made on forms prepared by AT T or the General Counsel, Secretary or
      Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates or shall be made in
      such other manner as permitted or required by AT T or the General
      Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates,
      including through electronic means, over the Internet or
      otherwise.  An election shall be deemed made when received by
      AT T (or its designated agent, but only in cases where the designated
      agent has been appointed for the purpose of receiving such election),
      which may waive any defects in form.  AT T may limit the
      time an election may be made in advance of any
  deadline. 

Where any
notice or filing required or permitted to be given to AT T under the Plan,
it shall be delivered to the principal office of AT T, directed to the
attention of the Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources of AT T or
his or her successor.  Such notice shall be deemed given on the date
of delivery. 

Notice to
the Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the
Participant's work or home address as shown on the records of AT T or, at
the option of AT T, to the Participant's e-mail address as shown on the
records of AT T.  It is the Participant's responsibility to ensure
that the Participant's addresses are kept up to date on the records of
AT T.  In the case of notices affecting multiple Participants, the
notices may be given by general distribution at the Participants' work
locations. 

</EX-10.W>

<EX-10.Z>
 17
 ex10z.htm
 PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10z.htm 

Exhibit
10-z 

PACIFIC
TELESIS GROUP 

EXECUTIVE
DEFERRAL PLAN 

(Amended
as of November 20, 2008) 

PACIFIC
TELESIS GROUP 

EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL
PLAN  

(Restated
as of December 1, 1995) 

SECTION
1.  Purpose.  

The
Pacific Telesis Group Executive Deferral Plan (the "Plan") provides certain
Officers of the Company with an opportunity to defer compensation and accrue
earnings on a pre-tax basis and with an opportunity to receive employer matching
contributions that cannot be provided to them under the Pacific Telesis Group
Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Salaried Employees ("the Savings
Plan") because of the limitations imposed by section 401(a)(17) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). 

SECTION
2.  Eligibility to
Participate  

The
following employees are eligible to participate in the Plan: 

(A)     Officers
of Pacific Telesis Group and/or Pacific Bell; 

(B)     The
Officers of any corporate Affiliate of Pacific Telesis Group who are
specifically designated to participate by the Board of Directors of Pacific
Telesis Group and the Board of Directors of such corporate
Affiliate. 

Prior to
April 1, 1994, certain employees of AirTouch Communications (formerly "PacTel
Corporation") were eligible to participate in the Plan, and they retain certain
rights to benefits as provided under the Plan. 

SECTION
3.  Plan
Accounts.  

3.1      Establishment of
Account.  An account shall be established for each eligible employee who
elects to become a participant in the Plan in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Section 4 of the Plan. The account shall be credited with allocations
and earnings under Sections 4, 5 and 6 and debited with distributions under
Section 7 of the Plan. 

3.2      Predecessor Plan
Accounts.  An employee's account under the Pacific Telesis Group Senior
Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan (the "Predecessor Plan") was
transferred to this Plan as of January 1, 1985 (the "Effective Date" of this
Plan), if the employee was then an eligible employee as provided in Section 2.
In such a case, the employee's account under this Plan was credited as of the
Effective Date with the amount credited to the employee's account under the
Predecessor Plan as of December 31, 1984, and such amount shall bear interest
from the Effective Date in accordance with Section 6. Elections regarding
distribution made under the Predecessor Plan shall not be affected by the
transfer of an employee's account to this Plan. 

3.3      No Funding or
Assignment.  For income tax purposes under the Code and for purposes of
Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
  ("ERISA"),
 it is intended that this
 Plan  constitute an
unfunded defer  r  ed compensation  arrangement. The
amounts credited to Plan accounts for employees of each participating Company
shall be held in the general funds of such participating Company. All amounts in
such accounts, including all Compensation deferred by an employee, shall remain
an asset of the participating Company. A participating Company shall not be
required to reserve or otherwise set aside funds for the payment of amounts
credited to Plan accounts. The obligation of a participating Company to pay
benefits under the Plan constitutes a mere promise to make benefit payments in
the future, and shall be unfunded as to the employee, whose rights shall be
those of a general unsecured creditor. Title to and beneficial ownership of any
assets which a participating Company may set aside or otherwise designate to
make payments under the Plan shall at all times remain in the participating
Company, and the employee shall not have any property interest in any specific
assets of a participating Company. The rights of an employee or his or her
beneficiary to benefit payments under the Plan are not subject in any manner to
assignment, alienation, pledge or garnishment by creditors. 

SECTION
4.  Deferred
Compensation.  

4.1      Annual Deferral and
Distribution Election.  An eligible employee may elect to participate in
the Plan prior to the beginning of any calendar year or within 30 days of first
becoming eligible to participate in the Plan or a feature of the Plan (with
respect to such Plan feature). An employee's election shall direct that
compensation in one or more of the following categories (collectively
"Compensation") be deferred and credited to an account under the Plan, subject
to the limitations and effectiveness prescribed for each category of
Compensation, and shall direct that such Compensation, together with all other
amounts credited under the Plan with respect to such Compensation under Section
5 (Company Match) and Section 6 (Earnings), shall be distributed in accordance
with a distribution option set forth in Section 7. 

(A)      Salary.  An employee
may elect to defer part of his or her salary otherwise payable for services
performed in a calendar year, but not less than $2,500 nor more than 80% of
salary. Such election shall become effective for salary otherwise payable for
services performed in the payroll period beginning (i) immediately subsequent to
the election, in the case of an employee who makes an election within 30 days of
first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan, or (ii) on or after the
first day of the calendar year to which the election applies in all other cases.
An election related to salary otherwise payable for services performed in any
calendar year shall become irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning of
such calendar year (or the applicable payroll period for which the election
becomes effective, in the case of an election made within 30 days of first
becoming eligible to participate in the Plan). 

(B)      STIP.  An employee may
elect to defer all or part, but not less than $5,000, of his or her awards under
the Short-Term Incentive Plan or Short-Term Incentive Compensation Plan of
Pacific Telesis Group or an Affiliate, or a similar or successor plan or program
("STIP"), for services performed in a calendar year and otherwise payable in the
calendar year following such calendar year. An election related to the STIP
award for services performed in a calendar year shall become irrevocable on the
last day prior to the year in which the services are performed. 

(C)      LTIP.  An employee may
elect to defer all or part, but not less than $5,000, of his or her awards under
the Pacific Telesis Group Senior Management Long-Term Incentive Plan or the
similar plan of an Affiliate ("LTIP"), for services performed in a three-year
performance period and otherwise payable in the calendar year following such
three-year performance period. An election related to the LTIP award otherwise
payable for services performed in a three-year performance period shall become
irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning of the three-year performance
period applicable to that LTIP award. 

(D)      Other Awards.  An
employee may elect to defer all or part of his or her awards under any other
bonus, special award, or any other similar form of compensation ("Other Awards")
otherwise payable to him or her by a participating Company with respect to
services performed in a calendar year. An election related to Other Awards
otherwise payable in a calendar year shall become irrevocable on the last day
prior to the beginning of such calendar year. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in no event shall deferrals under the Plan include that portion
of Compensation required for all applicable tax, Social Security and employee
benefit plan withholding, whether or not such withholding requirement is related
to this Plan, and no deferral election made under this Section 4.1 shall be
effective with respect to salary or other awards payable during any calendar
year after 1995, STIP payable during any calendar  year  after 1996 and LTIP payable
during any calendar year after 1998, except LTIP as may have already been
elected for deferral on forms on file as of December 31, 1994. 

4.2   Form of Election.
Modification or Termination.  An employee's election or written notice of
modification or termination shall be made in accordance with procedures
established by the Plan Administrator, in the form of a document approved by the
Plan Administrator, executed by the employee and filed with the Plan
Administrator or his or her designee. The Plan Administrator may permit an
employee to make a series of annual elections to be effective in future years,
in which case such elections shall become irrevocable as provided in Section
4.1. An election which has not become irrevocable may be modified, terminated or
reinstated by the employee prior to the time such election would have become
irrevocable as provided in Section 4.1. An election with respect to salary, ST1P
or her Awards for services performed in a calendar year and/or with respect to
LTIP for services performed in a three-year performance period shall be deemed
irrevocably terminated when the employee, whether by transfer or termination of
employment, ceases to be eligible to participate in the Plan during such
calendar year and/or such three-year performance period (as
applicable). 

4.3   Modification of Irrevocable
Election by the Committee.  Upon receipt of a written request made by or
on behalf of an employee, the Committee in its sole discretion may modify or
terminate the employee's election with respect to Compensation otherwise payable
in a calendar year   as
it deems necessary to prevent extreme financial hardship to the employee,
notwithstanding that the election has become effective and irrevocable as
provided in Section 4.1. 

4.4    Allocation
to Accounts.   Deferred
amounts related to Compensation  which would otherwise have been paid by a
participating Company shall be credited to the employee's account as of the date
the Compensation would otherwise have been paid. Deferred amounts related to
Compensation which would otherwise have been distributed in   Pacific Telesis Group
common shares shall be credited to the employee's account as deferred Pacific
Telesis Group shares as of the date such Pacific Telesis Group shares would
otherwise have been transferred to the employee. 

SECTION
5.  Company
Match.  

5.1   Eligibility for Company
Match.  An employee who (A) elects to defer Compensation under the Plan
for a calendar year, and (B) has made the maximum elective deferral under the
Savings Plan permitted by section 402(g) of the Code for such calendar year
(except to the extent that a further limitation is required by section 401(k)(3)
of the Code), shall be eligible to have additional amounts based on Compensation
deferred pursuant to this Plan ("Company Match") credited to his or her account
hereunder. 

5.2   Amount of Company
Match.  The Company Match credited to an employee's account under this
Plan with respect to Compensation deferred during a calendar year shall be equal
to 

(A)     the
amount of Compensation deferred into the employee's Plan account, multiplied
by 

(B)     the
percentage in effect for that calendar year at which the employee's Basic
Contributions to the Savings Plan are matched by employing Company
contributions; 

      provided,
however, that the maximum Company Match credited to the employee's account shall
not exceed 

(C)     6% of the
employee's Savings Plan Salary, multiplied by 

(D)     the
percentage in effect for that calendar year at which the    employee's     Basic   Contributions     to the Savings Plan are matched
  by   employing Company contributions,
reduced  by 

(E)     the total
amount of matching Company contributions credited to the employee's account
under the Savings Plan. 

For  purposes  of  determining  the amount of Compensation
defer  r  ed into the employee's  Plan
account, deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares shall be valued by multiplying
the number of shares deferred by the Price of Pacific Telesis Group common
shares on the deferral date. 

5.3 
 Allocation to
Account.  Until fully credited for the calendar year, and subject to the
delay provided in Section 5.4, Company Match shall be credited to an employee's
account under this Plan as of each date that deferred Compensation is credited
to the employee's account under this Plan. 

5.4    Maximum Pre-Tax Savings Plan
Deferrals Required.  No Company Match shall be credited to an employee's
account for a calendar year until the employee has made before-tax contributions
under the Savings Plan equal to the maximum elective deferrals permitted under
section 402(g) of the Code, as further limited by section 401(k)(3) of the Code.
Thereafter, the employee's account shall immediately be credited with an amount
equal to the Company Match that would otherwise have been previously credited
under Section 5.3. 

5.5  
 Savings Plan
Provisions Prevail  .  .  The provisions of
this Section 5 shall not limit or affect the application of the provisions
regarding matching Company contributions in the Savings Plan, which shall take
precedence over the provisions of this Section 5. 

SECTION
6.   Earnings on
Accounts.  

6.1   Interest Allocations to
Accounts.  Deferred amounts related to Compensation which would otherwise
have been paid in cash shall bear interest from the date the Compensation would
otherwise have been paid. Interest shall be applied to Company Match credited to
an employee's account as if such Company Match had been credited to the
employee's account at the same time that the related amounts of Compensation
deferred hereunder were credited to the employee's account. The interest
credited to an account shall be compounded annually at the end of each calendar
year. 

6.2   Rate of Interest.  The
rate of interest to be applied to account balances for a calendar year shall be
determined by the Committee from time to time, and promptly communicated to
eligible employees in advance of its application, but in no event shall (A) the
interest rate be decreased below the average 10-Year Treasury note rate, (B) any
reduction apply to interest already credited to Plan accounts for periods prior
to the Committee's action, or (C) any interest rate previously guaranteed for a
given period and communicated to eligible employees be reduced during such
period except as may be equitable in light of any change in applicable law which
substantially increases the burden to the participating Companies of paying such
guaranteed interest. 

6.3    Retroactive Limitation of
Interest Accrual in Case of Early Separation.  Notwithstanding Section
6.2, an employee whose Separation occurs before he or she attains age 55 will
receive interest on all deferred cash Compensation and Company Match based on
the average 10-Year Treasury note rate for all years of participation in this
Plan, rather than tt rate of interest established by the Committee for any
particular calendar year. 

6.4    Dividends and Adjustments
for Pacific Telesis Group Shares.  An employee's account credited with
deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares shall be credited on each subsequent
dividend payment date for Pacific Telesis Group shares with an amount equivalent
to the dividend payable on the number of Pacific Telesis Group common shares
equal to the number of deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares in the employee's
account on the record date for such dividend. Such amount shall then be
converted to a number of additional deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares,
determined by dividing such amount by the price of Pacific Telesis Group common
shares on the dividend payment date. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the
price of Pacific Telesis Group common shares as of a particular date shall be
the average of the daily high and low sale prices of Pacific Telesis Group
common shares on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") for the period of five
trading days ending on such date, or the period of five trading days immediately
preceding such date if the NYSE is closed on the date. In the event of any
change in outstanding Pacific Telesis Group common shares by reason of any stock
dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination or
exchange of shares or other similar corporate change, the Committee shall make
such adjustments, if any, that it deems appropriate in the number of deferred
Pacific Telesis Group shares then credited to an employee's account. Any and all
such adjustments shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties
concerned. 

SECTION
7.  Distribution.  

7.1    Distribution
Elections.  At the time an eligible employee makes an election to defer
Compensation otherwise payable for services performed in a calendar year, the
employee also shall make an election with respect to the distribution (during
the employee's lifetime and in the event of the employee's death) of such
deferred Compensation and Company Match and earnings credited to the employee's
Plan account with respect to such deferred Compensation. Subject to the
provisions on Hardship distributions in Section 7.6.3 and the provisions on
Options for Distribution in the Event of Death in Section 7.3, distribution
elections shall become effective and irrevocable at the same times the election
to defer such Compensation becomes effective and irrevocable under Section
4.1. 

7.2    Options for Distribution
During Life.  An employee may elect to receive the amounts credited to the
employee's account in one payment or in a number of monthly or annual
installments (over a period not exceeding 15 years) calculated in accordance
with procedures established by the Plan Administrator. As specified by the
employee, distributions shall commence as soon as practicable after the first
day of the calendar quarter next following the employee's 

(A)     Separation; 

(B)     attainment
of a specified age between 59 1/2 and 70; 

(C)     the
earlier of attainment of a specified age not less than age 59 1/2 or Separation;
or 

(D)     the
earlier of age 70 or a specified number of years (maximum of 5) after
Separation. 

7.3   Options for Distribution In
the Event of Death.  An employee may elect that, in the event the employee
should die before full payment of all amounts credited to the employee's
account, the balance of the deferred account shall be distributed to the
beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the employee 

(A)     in one
payment; 

(B)     in a
number of monthly or annual installments (over a period not exceeding 10 years),
calculated in accordance with procedures established by the Plan Administrator;
or 

(C)     by a
continuation of the monthly or annual installment distributions elected under
Section 7.2. 

A single
payment or first installment elected under paragraphs (A) or (8) of this Section
shall be paid as soon as practicable after the first day of the next calendar
quarter beginning after the employee's death. If an employee who has elected to
continue installment distributions under paragraph (C) of this Section dies
before commencement of such distributions, the distributions shall commence in
accordance with the employee's election under Section 7.2, using as any
specified age the date the employee would have attained that age if he or she
had continued to live. If no election has been made under this Section 7.3, the
balance of the deferred account shall be distributed in one payment. If no
beneficiary designation has been made, distribution shall be made to the estate
of the employee. 

At any
time an employee who is a participant in the Pacific Telesis Group 1996
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan may revoke all elections made with respect
to the time and form of distribution of all remaining amounts credited to the
employee's account in the event of death, and make an irrevocable election
directing that all remaining amounts credited to the employee's account in the
event of death shall be distributed at the same time and in the same manner as
such employee has elected with respect to distribution of his or her account
under the Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan in the
event of death. At any time an employee who is not a participant in the Pacific
Telesis Group 1996 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan may revoke all elections
made with respect to the time and form of distribution of all remaining amounts
credited to the employee's account in the event of death, and make an
irrevocable election directing that all remaining amounts credited to the
employee's account in the event of death shall be distributed at the same time
and in the same form, in accordance with one of the above methods described in
(A), (B) or (C) above. Such election shall be effective upon receipt by the Plan
Administrator or his or her designee. 

7.4    Form of Elections. 
Distribution elections and beneficiary designations shall be made in writing in
the form of a document or documents approved by the Plan Administrator, executed
by the employee and filed with the Plan Administrator or his or her designee. An
employee may designate one or more individuals or a trust as his or her
beneficiary, and may change the beneficiary designation at any time, effective
upon receipt by the Plan Administrator or his or her designee. 

7.5   Form and Timing of
Distribution.  Amounts credited to an employee's Plan account as cash plus
accumulated interest, less applicable withholding taxes, shall be distributed in
cash. Amounts credited as deferred Pacific Telesis Group shares, less applicable
withholding taxes, shall be distributed in the form of whole Pacific Telesis
Group common shares, plus cash for any fractional share. Installment
distributions subsequent to the first installment shall be paid on or about the
anniversary date of the first annual installment or on or about the first day of
each succeeding month, whichever is applicable, until the entire balance of the
employee's Plan account is paid. Account balances held pending distribution
shall continue to be credited with interest or additional deferred Pacific
Telesis Group shares, as applicable, determined in accordance with Section 6.
Monthly distribution payments within a single calendar year will be uniform, but
the total amount paid each year will vary with changes in the yield on the
account during the prior year. 

7.6   Distributions   Not   in   Accordance   with   Elections.  

7.6.1   Postponement of
Payment.  With respect to Plan account balances accrued pursuant to
elections filed after February 17, 1993, the Committee may postpone payment of
Plan benefits to an employee (A) who, in the year Plan benefits would otherwise
be payable, is a "covered employee" for purposes of the $1 million limitation on
deductible compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, and
(B) whose compensation for the year in which Plan benefits would otherwise be
payable would, but for such postponement, exceed the $1 million limit on
deductibility. In addition, notwithstanding an election pursuant to Section 7.2,
at the sole discretion of the Committee, in the event an employee's Separation
is on account of total and permanent disability, the Committee may postpone
payment of benefits to such employee to commence in a year later than the year
in which his or her Plan benefits would otherwise be payable, provided that no
such postponement shall extend beyond the earlier of (a) 10 years from the date
of Separation or (b) the year in which such employee attains age
65. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the following shall apply with respect to Plan participants who,
as of December 31, 2004, were employed by an affiliate of AT T Inc. and who
had not attained age fifty-five (55): 

7.6.1      Postponement of
Payment.   If the Committee reasonably anticipates that the
payment of any or all of an employee s Plan benefits, if made as scheduled,
would not be deductible due to the application of Code Section 162(m), the
distribution of such employee s Plan benefits may be delayed to (A) the end of
the employee s first taxable year in which the Committee reasonably anticipates
(or should reasonably anticipate) that the deduction of such payment would not
be barred by application of Code Section 162(m), or (B) the 15 th  day of
the third month of the year following the year of the employee s separation from
service; provided, however, this delayed payment provision shall apply only to
the extent all payments of non-qualified deferred compensation from plans
sponsored by AT T Inc. (or any affiliate) are similarly
delayed. 

7.6.2   Immediate Single
Payment.  Notwithstanding an election pursuant to Section 7.2, at the sole
discretion of the Committee the entire amount then credited to the employee's
account shall be paid as soon as practicable in a single payment if an employee
is involuntarily terminated by his or her Company or becomes employed by a
governmental agency having jurisdiction over the activities of Pacific Telesis
Group or any of its Affiliates. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the following shall apply with respect to Plan participants who,
as of December 31, 2004, were employed by an affiliate of AT T Inc. and who
had not attained age fifty-five (55): 

7.6.2      Immediate Single
Payment.   Notwithstanding an election pursuant to Section 7.2,
at the sole discretion of the Committee the entire amount then credited to the
employee's account shall be paid as soon as practicable in a single payment if
an employee becomes employed by a governmental agency having jurisdiction over
the activities of Pacific Telesis Group or any of its Affiliates to the extent
(A) necessary for any employee in the executive branch of the United States
government to comply with an ethics agreement with the Federal government, or
(B) reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of an applicable Federal, state
or local ethics law or conflicts of interest law (including where such payment
is reasonably necessary to permit the employee to participate in activities in
the normal course of the employee s position in which the employee would
otherwise not be able to participate under an applicable rule).  For
purposes of this section, a payment is reasonably necessary to avoid the
violation of a Federal, state or local ethics law or conflicts of interest law
if the payment is a necessary part of a course of action that results in
compliance with a Federal, state or local ethics law or conflicts of interest
law that would be violated absent such course of action, regardless of whether
other actions would also result in compliance with Federal, state or local
ethics law or conflicts of interest law. 

7.6.3  Hardship
Distribution.  Upon receipt of a written request made by or on behalf of
an employee, the Committee in its sole discretion may authorize a Hardship
distribution from the employee's Plan account. For purposes of the Plan,
"Hardship" means an unanticipated emergency that is caused by an event beyond
the control of the employee and that would result in severe financial hardship
if early distribution were not permitted. As determined by the Committee in its
sole discretion, Hardship may include one or more of the following: 

(A)     A sudden
and unexpected illness or accident of the employee; 

(B)     Extraordinary
and unreimbursed medical or hospital expenses incurred by the employee or a
member of his or her family or a relative; 

(C)     The loss
of the employee's property due to casualty; or 

(D)     Any other
similar unforeseeable emergency that is caused by and event beyond the control
of the employee and would impose a severe financial hardship if early
distribution were not permitted. 

A
distribution based on Hardship cannot exceed the amount required to meet the
immediate financial need created by the Hardship and not reasonably available
from other resources of the employee, including reimbursement or compensation by
insurance or otherwise. However, an employee shall not be required to request a
hardship distribution from the Savings Plan in order to receive a Hardship
distribution under this Plan. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the following shall apply with respect to Plan participants who,
as of December 31, 2004, were employed by an affiliate of AT T Inc. and who
had not attained age fifty-five (55): 

7.6.3      Unforeseeable Emergency
Distribution.   Upon receipt of a written request made by or on
behalf of an employee, the Committee in its sole discretion may authorize a
distribution from the employee's Plan account in the event of an unforeseeable
emergency. For purposes of the Plan, "unforeseeable emergency" means (A) a
severe financial hardship to the employee resulting from an illness or accident
of the employee, the employee s spouse, the employee s beneficiary, or the
employee s dependent (as defined in Code Section 152 without regard to Code
Section 152(b)(1), (b)(2) and (d)(1)(B)), (B) loss of he employee s property due
to casualty, or (C) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances
arising as a result of events beyond the control of the employee.  As
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, Hardship may include one or
more of the following: 

(A) 

the
      imminent foreclosure of or eviction from the employee s primary residence;
      ; 

(B) 

the
      need to pay for medical expenses, including non-refundable deductibles, as
      well as for the costs of prescription drug medication;
  or 

(C) 

the
      need to pay for the funeral expense of a spouse, a beneficiary, or a
      dependent (as defined in Code Section 152 without regard to Code Section
      152(b)(1), (b)(2) and (d)(1)(B)) 

A
distribution on account of an unforeseeable emergency may not be made to the
extent that such emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or
compensation from insurance or otherwise, or by liquidation of the employee s
assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe
financial hardship. Distributions based on an unforeseeable emergency cannot
exceed the amount reasonably necessary to meet the emergency need (which may
include amounts necessary to pay any Federal, state or local income taxes or
penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the
distribution).  However, an employee shall not be required to request
a  hardship distribution or unforeseeable emergency distribution that
might be available from the 401(k) plan or other nonqualified deferred
compensation plan in which the employee participates. 

The
following two provisions shall apply with respect to Plan participants who, as
of December 31, 2004, were employed by an affiliate of AT T Inc. and who had
not attained age fifty-five (55): 

7.6.4      Distributions to Specified
Employees.    Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan to the contrary (other than Plan Section 7.6.2), if an employee is a
 specified employee  within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section
1.409A-1(i), distribution shall be made in accordance with the employee s
distribution election, provided, however, that no distribution shall be made to
such employee on account of separation from service before the date that is six
(6) months after the date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date
of death of such employee). 

7.6.5      Distributions Upon Income
Inclusion Under Code Section 409A.    Distributions to an
employee may commence at any time the Plan fails to meet the requirements of
Code Section 409A and the regulations issued thereunder, as applicable to and
with respect to such employee; provided, however, the amount of such
distribution shall not exceed the amount required to be included in income as a
result of the failure to comply with such requirements. 

7.7    Payment   Obligation.  The
obligation to distribute benefits under the Plan shall be borne primarily by the
last Company to employ an employee in a position eligible to participate in the
Plan immediately prior to the distribution. A Company's withdrawal from
participation in the Plan shall not affect that Company's liability hereunder.
If for any reason the primarily liable Company fails to make timely payment of a
amount due under the Plan, Pacific Telesis Group shall be secondarily liable for
the obligation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Pacific Telesis Group shall be
solely and exclusively responsible for providing the benefits accrued under the
Plan by a Post-Separation AirTouch Employee. 

SECTION
8.  Administration:
Claims and Review Procedures.  

8.1   
  Plan
Administrator.  The Plan Administrator shall be the Executive Vice
President, Human Resources Department of Pacific Telesis Group. The Plan
Administrator shall have the authority to administer and interpret the Plan,
including sole discretion to determine the rights of an employee or beneficiary
under the Plan, and to authorize disbursements under the Plan, except for
decisions expressly reserved by the Plan for the Committee or for the Board of
Directors of Pacific Telesis Group or of an Affiliate. 

8.2   
  Initial Claim
Unnecessary.  No claim for benefits shall be required for commencement of
distributions in accordance with an employee's election under Sections 7.2 and
7.3 of the Plan. The obligation of a Company to make distributions under the
Plan shall not be affected by any action or inaction (on the part of an
employee, his beneficiaries or any Company) with respect to amounts owed,
including but not limited to the failure to make timely demand, the granting of
extensions of time or other indulgences, the failure to make timely payment or
the failure to give notices other than those prescribed in Section
8.3. 

8.3      Review of Adverse
Decisions.  An employee or beneficiary who disagrees with a decision by
the Plan Administrator relating to the payment of benefits under the Plan may
submit a claim requesting Plan benefits in writing to the Committee, which shall
respond in writing. A claim shall be deemed denied unless the response is sent
within 90 days (or within 180 days, if the Committee extends the time to respond
by notifying the claimant in writing of the special circumstances requiring an
extension and the date by which the response is expected). If the claim is
denied in whole or part, the response shall state (A) the specific reasons,
making specific reference to pertinent provisions of the Plan; (B) at additional
information, if any, would help perfect the claim for benefits; and (C) what
steps the claimant must take to submit the claim for review :  Within 60
days after the date of a denial, a claimant may file a written request for the
Pacific Telesis Group Board of Directors to review the denial. Notwithstanding
Section 8.2 of the Plan, such request for review must be made in a timely manner
for the purpose of seeking any further review of a decision or determining any
entitlement to a benefit under the Plan. The Board of Directors shall notify the
claimant in writing of the review decision, specifying the reasons for the
decision and the Plan provisions on which it is based. A claim shall be deemed
denied unless the decision on appeal is sent within 60 days (or within 120 days,
if the Board extends the time to respond by notifying the claimant in writing).
The Plan Administrator, Committee and Board shall retain such right, authority
and discretion as are provided or not expressly limited in section 503 of ERISA
and the regulations thereunder and, if the Committee denies a claim upon review,
the claimant shall have such further rights of review as are provided
therein. 

SECTION
9.  Amendment and
Termination.  

The
Pacific Telesis Group Board of Directors may at any time make changes in the
Plan or terminate the Plan, but such changes or termination shall have
prospective effect only and shall not adversely affect the rights of any
employee, without his or her consent, to any benefit under the Plan to which
such employee was entitled prior to the effective date of such change or  termination. Any  termination
 of the  Plan  shall not terminate the
defer  r  al of  Compensation previously
deferred into a Plan account, but may prevent the deferral of Compensation not
yet earned and the crediting of Company Match thereon, notwithstanding the
employee's prior election to defer such Compensation. Changes in the interest
rate applied to account balances which are made by the Committee in accordance
with Section 6.2 of the Plan shall not be deemed to be Plan amendments,
notwithstanding that they apply to Compensation previously earned and deferred.
The Executive Vice President, Human Resources Department of Pacific Telesis
Group, with the approval of the Executive Vice President and General Counsel of
Pacific Telesis Group, shall be authorized to make minor or administrative
changes to the Plan. 

SECTION
10.  Definitions.  

For
purposes of this Plan, the following words shall have the meaning so defined
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

10.1     "Affiliate"  as the
term relates to Pacific Telesis Group or to AirTouch Communications (formerly
"PacTel Corporation"), means a subsidiary of or other entity that controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with Pacific Telesis Group or AirTouch
Communications, as the case may be. As used herein, "control" means the
possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or use the direction
of the management and policies of such entity, whether through ownership of
voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise. 

10.2     "AirTouch Group" 
means AirTouch Communications (or its successor) and its Affiliates immediately
after the total and complete separation of AirTouch Communications from Pacific
Telesis Group. 

10.3      "Committee"  shall
mean the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of
Pacific Telesis Group. 

10.4      "Company"  shall mean
Pacific Telesis Group, Pacific Bell or any other corporation which is an
Affiliate of Pacific Telesis Group. Prior to April 1, 1994, Company also
included PacTel Corporation (now "AirTouch Communications") and any other
corporation; which was an Affiliate of PacTel Corporation. 

10.5    
 "Effective
Date"  means January 1, 1985, the effective date of the Plan. 

10.6       "Officer'  means an
officer of a Company, as determined by the Plan 

      Administrator,
but the term shall not include Assistant Secretary, Assistant Treasurer,
Assistant Comptroller or any other assistant officer. 

10.7       "Post-Separation AirTouch
Employee"  means an employee who, immediately after the total and complete
separation of PacTel Corporation from Pacific Telesis Group, was employed by a
member of the AirTouch Group. 

      10.8       "  Savings Plan"  means
the Pacific Telesis Group Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Salaried
Employees. Prior to April 1, 1994, "Savings Plan" also means the PacTel
Corporation Retirement Plan (for employees who were eligible to participate
therein). 

10.9        "  Savings Plan Salary" 
means "Salary" as defined in the Pacific Telesis Group Supplemental Retirement
and Savings Plan for Salaried Employees and, prior to April 1, 1994,  " Compensation"
as defined in the PacTel Corporation Retirement Plan, whichever is applicable to
the employee, without reduction for deferrals of salary under this Plan and
without regard to the limit on compensation under section 401(a)(17) of the
Code. If an eligible employee is employed by a participating Company for only a
portion of a calendar year or is on a leave of absence for a portion of a
calendar year, the employee's Savings Plan Salary is prorated to reflect only
the period during which the employee was actively employed by a participating
Company. 

10.10       "Separation"  means
retirement or termination from all employment with Pacific Telesis Group or its
Affiliates. With respect to a Post-Separation AirTouch Employee, "Separation"
means retirement or termination from all employment with the AirTouch Group
without employment by Pacific Telesis Group or its
Affiliates. 

</EX-10.Z>

<EX-10.BB>
 18
 ex10bb.htm
 STOCK PURCHASE AND DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10bb.htm 

Exhibit
10-bb 

AT T
INC. 

STOCK
PURCHASE AND DEFERRAL PLAN 

Adopted
November 19, 2004 

      As
amended through November 20, 2008 

Article
1 - Statement of Purpose 

The
purpose of the Stock Purchase and Deferral Plan ( Plan ) is to increase stock
ownership by, and to provide savings opportunities to, a select group of
management employees of AT T Inc. ( AT T ) and its
Subsidiaries. 

Article
2 - Definitions 

For the
purpose of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context indicates otherwise: 

Annual Bonus .  The
award designated the  Annual Bonus  by AT T (including but not limited to an
award that may be paid in more frequent installments than annually), together
with any individual discretionary award made in connection therewith, or
comparable awards, if any, determined by AT T to be used in lieu of these
awards. 

Base
Compensation.   The following types of cash-based compensation
paid by an Employer (but not including payments made by a non-Employer, such as
state disability payments), before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to
this Plan or reduction pursuant to any deferral plan of an Employer, including
but not limited to a plan that includes a qualified cash or deferral arrangement
under Section 401(k) of the Code: 

(a)   

base
      salary; 

(b)  lump sum payments in
lieu of a base salary increase;  and 

(c) 
Annual Bonus. 

Payments
by an Employer under a disability plan made in lieu of any compensation
described above, shall be deemed to be a part of the respective form of
compensation it replaces for purposes of this definition.  Base
Compensation does not include zone allowances or any other geographical
differential and shall not include payments made in lieu of unused vacation or
other paid days off, and such payments shall not be contributed to this
Plan. 

Determinations
by AT T (the Committee with respect to Officer Level Employees) of the items
that make up Base Compensation shall be final.  The Committee may,
from time to time, add or subtract types of compensation to or from the
definition of  Base Compensation  provided, however, any such addition or
subtraction shall be effective only with respect to the next period in which a
Participant may make an election to establish a Share Deferral
Account.  Base Compensation that was payable in a prior Plan Year but
paid in a later Plan Year shall not be used to determine Employee Contributions
or Matching Contributions in such later Plan Year. 

Business Day.   Any
day during regular business hours that AT T is open for
business. 

Change in
Control.   With respect to AT T s direct and indirect
ownership of an Employer, a  Change in the effective control of a Corporation, 
as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)(A)(1), regardless
of whether the Employer is a corporation or non corporate entity as permitted by
the regulation, and using  50 percent  in lieu of  30 percent  in such
regulation.  A Change in Control will not apply to AT T
itself. 

Chief Executive
Officer.   The Chief Executive Officer of AT T
Inc. 

Code.   References to
the Code shall be to provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, including regulations promulgated thereunder and successor
provisions.  Similarly, references to regulations shall include
amendments and successor provisions. 

Committee.   The
Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of AT T
Inc. 

Disability.  Absence of an
Employee from work with an Employer under the relevant Employer's disability
plan. 

Eligible
Employee.   An Employee who: 

      (a) is a
full or part time, salaried Employee of AT T or an Employer in which
AT T has a direct or indirect 100% ownership interest and who is on active
duty or Leave of Absence (but only while such Employee is deemed by the Employer
to be an Employee of such Employer); 

(b) is,
as determined by AT T, a member of Employer's  select group of management or
highly compensated employees  within the meaning of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder ( ERISA ),
which is deemed to include each Officer Level Employee; and 

(c) has
an employment status which has been approved by AT T to be eligible to
participate in this Plan or is an Officer Level Employee. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, AT T (the Committee with respect to Officer Level Employees)
may, from time to time, exclude any Employee or group of Employees from being
deemed an  Eligible Employee  under this Plan. 

In the
event a court or other governmental authority determines that an individual was
improperly excluded from the class of persons who would be permitted to make
Employee Contributions during a particular time for any reason, that individual
shall not be permitted to make such contributions for purposes of the Plan for
the period of time prior to such determination. 

Employee.   Any
person employed by an Employer and paid on an Employer s payroll system,
excluding persons hired for a fixed maximum term and excluding persons who are
neither citizens nor permanent residents of the United States, all as determined
by AT T.   For
purposes of this Plan, a person on Leave of Absence who otherwise would be an
Employee shall be deemed to be an Employee. 

Employee
Contributions.   Amounts credited to a Share Deferral Account
pursuant to Section 4.1 (Election to Make Contributions) of the
Plan. 

Employer.   AT T
Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries. 

Exercise
Price.   The price per share of Stock purchasable under an
Option. 

Fair Market Value or
FMV.   In valuing Stock or any other item subject to valuation
under this Plan, the Committee may use such index or measurement as the
Committee may reasonably determine from time to time, and such index or
measurement shall be the FMV of such Stock or other item, provided that for
purposes of determining the Exercise Price of Stock Options, the Committee shall
use a value consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.  In the
absence of such action by the Committee, FMV means, with respect to Stock, the
closing price on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) of the Stock on the
relevant date, or if on such date the Stock is not traded on the NYSE, then the
closing price on the immediately preceding date such Stock is so
traded. 

Leave of
Absence.   Where a person is absent from employment with an
Employer on a leave of absence, military leave, sick leave, or Disability where
the leave is given in order to prevent a break in the continuity of term of
employment, and permission for such leave is granted (and not revoked) in
conformity with the rules of the Employer that employs the individual, as
adopted from time to time, and the Employee is reasonably expected to return to
service.  Except as set forth below, the leave shall not exceed six
(6) months for purposes of this Plan, and the Employee shall Terminate
Employment upon termination of such leave if the Employee does not return to
work prior to or upon expiration of such six (6) month period, unless the
individual retains a right to reemployment under law or by
contract.  A twenty-nine (29) month limitation shall apply in lieu of
such six (6) month limitation if the leave is due to the Employee being
"disabled" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation
 1.409A-3(i)(4)).  A Leave of Absence shall not commence or shall be
deemed to cease under the Plan where the Employee has incurred a Termination of
Employment. 

Officer Level
Employee.   Any executive officer of AT T, as that term is
used under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any Employee
that is an  officer level  Employee for compensation purposes as shown on the
records of AT T. 

Options or Stock
Options.   Options to purchase Stock issued pursuant to this
Plan. 

Participant.   An
Employee or former Employee who participates in this Plan. 

Plan
Year.   Each of the following shall be a Plan
Year:  the period January 1, 2005, through January 15, 2006; the
period January 16, 2006, through December 31, 2006; and, for all later Plan
Years, it is defined as the period from January 1 through December
31. 

Retirement or
Retire.   Termination of Employment on or after the earlier of
the following dates, unless otherwise provided by the Committee:  (a)
for Officer Level Employees, the date the Participant is at least age 55 and has
five (5) years of Net Credited Service; or (b) the date the Participant has
attained one of the following combinations of age and Net Credited
Service: 

Net Credited
      Service  

Age 

For
purposes of this Plan only, Net Credited Service shall be calculated in the same
manner as  Pension Eligibility Service  under the AT T Pension Benefit Plan
  Nonbargained Program ( Pension Plan ), as amended from time to time, except
that service with an Employer shall be counted as though the Employer were a
 Participating Company  under the Pension Plan and the Employee was a
participant in the Pension Plan. 

Shares or Share
Units.   An accounting entry representing the right to receive
an equivalent number of shares of Stock. 

Share Deferral Account  or  Account.    The
Account or Accounts established annually by an election by a Participant to make
Employee Contributions to the Plan, with each Account relating to a Plan
Year.  For each Plan Year after 2008, there shall be (1) a separate
Share Deferral Account for Share Units purchased with Employee Contributions of
Base Compensation (excluding Annual Bonus) and related Matching Share Units and
(2) a separate Share Deferral Account for Share Units purchased with Employee
Contributions of Short Term Incentive Award and/or Annual Bonus and any related
Matching Share Units.  Earnings on Share Units and Matching Share
Units shall accrue to the respective Share Deferral Accounts where they are
earned. 

Short Term Incentive
Award.   A cash award paid by an Employer (and not by a
non-Employer, such as state disability payments) under the Short Term Incentive
Plan or any successor plan, together with any individual discretionary award
made in connection therewith; an award under a similar plan intended by the
Committee to be in lieu of an award under such Short Term Incentive Plan,
including, but not limited to, Performance Units granted under the 2006
Incentive Plan or any successor plan.  It shall also include any other
award that the Committee designates as a Short Term Incentive Award specifically
for purposes of this Plan (regardless of the purpose of the award) provided the
deferral election is made in accordance with Section 409A. 

Specified
Employee .  Any Participant who is a  Key Employee  (as defined
in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), as determined
by AT T in accordance with its uniform policy with respect to all
arrangements subject to Code Section 409A, based upon the 12-month period ending
on each December 31st (such 12-month period is referred to below as the
 identification period ).  All Participants who are determined to be
Key Employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5)
thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Key Employees for
purposes of the Plan during the 12-month period that begins on the first day of
the 4th month following the close of such identification period. 

Stock.   The common
stock of AT T Inc. 

Subsidiary.   Any
corporation, partnership, venture or other entity or business with which
AT T would be considered a single employer under Sections 414(a) and (c) of
the Code, using 50% as the ownership threshold as provided under Section 409A of
the Code. 

Termination of Employment. 
References herein to  Termination of Employment,"  Terminate Employment  or a
similar reference, shall mean the event where the Employee has a  separation
from service,  as defined under Section 409A, with all Employers. For purposes
of this Plan, a Termination of Employment with respect to an Employer shall be
deemed to also occur when such Employer incurs a Change in Control. 

Article
3 - Administration of the Plan 

3.1             The Committee . 

      Except as
delegated by this Plan or by the Committee, the Committee shall be the
administrator of the Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and
apply its provisions and determine all questions of administration,
interpretation and application of the Plan, including, without limitation,
questions and determinations of eligibility, entitlement to benefits and payment
of benefits, all in its sole and absolute discretion.  The Committee
may further establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations and such
additional terms and conditions regarding participation in the Plan as it may
deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the
Plan.  References in this Plan to determinations or other actions by
AT T, herein, shall mean actions authorized by the Committee, the Chief
Executive Officer, the Senior Executive Vice President of AT T in charge of
Human Resources, or their respective successors or duly authorized delegates, in
each case in the discretion of such person.  All decisions by the
Committee, its delegate or AT T, as applicable, shall be final and
binding. 

3.2           Authorized
Shares of Stock. 

      (a)
Except as provided below, the number of shares of Stock which may be distributed
pursuant to the Plan, exclusive of Article 8 - Options, is
21,000,000.  The number of shares of Stock which may be issued
pursuant to the exercise of Stock Options is 34,000,000 (together with an equal
number of Stock Options).  Only the actual number of shares of Stock
that are issued (shares issued would not include, for example, any reduction in
shares to be issued as a result of tax withholding in connection with a
distribution of Stock, exercise of options, or otherwise) shall be counted
against the authorized number of shares of Stock. To the extent an Option issued
under this Plan is canceled, terminates, expires, or lapses for any reason, such
Option shall again be available for issuance under the
Plan.  Conversions of Stock awards into Share Units and their eventual
distribution (excluding the effects of any dividends on such Share Units) shall
count only against the limits of the plans from which they originated and shall
not be applied against the limits in this Plan.  To the extent Share
Units are credited through deferrals of Stock or Employee Contributions where
the distribution of which would be deductible by AT T under Section 162(m)
of the Code without regard to the size of the distribution, and such deductible
Share Units are available for distribution, such Share Units shall be
distributed first. 

(b)  In
the event the Committee determines that continuing the issuance of Share Units
under the Plan or Stock Options under the Plan may cause the number of shares of
Stock that are to be distributed under this Plan or the number of Stock Options
(as determined pursuant to subsection (a), above) to exceed the number of
authorized shares of Stock, then in lieu of distributing Stock, the Committee
may provide after such determination and only with respect to Share Units that
have not theretofore been credited to a Share Deferral Account, that such Share
Units may be settled in cash equal to the value of the Stock that would
otherwise be distributed based on the FMV of the Stock on the date of the
distribution of such Share Unit.  The Committee may also provide after
such determination and only with respect to Stock Options that have not
theretofore been issued that such Stock Options may only be settled on a
Net-Settled basis in cash equal to the value of the Stock that would otherwise
be distributed based on the FMV of the Stock on the day of
exercise. 

(c) In
the event of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization,
separation, liquidation, stock dividend, stock split, share combination, or
other change in the corporate structure of AT T affecting the shares of
Stock (including a conversion of Stock into cash or other property), such
adjustment shall be made to the number and class of the shares of Stock which
may be delivered under the Plan (including but not limited to individual
limits), and in the number and class of and/or price of shares of Stock subject
to outstanding Options granted under the Plan, and/or in the number of
outstanding Options and Share Units, or such other adjustment determined by the
Committee, in each case as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable by
the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of
rights. 

3.3           Claims
Procedure. 

      Subject
to the authority of the Committee over the Plan, AT T shall appoint a Claims
Board to adjudicate claims brought by or in respect to Participants and their
beneficiaries relating to benefits under the Plan.  A Participant may
apply in writing to the Claims Board to make a claim under this
Plan.  The Claims Board shall provide written notice within 90 days to
a Participant whose claim hereunder has been denied, setting forth reasons for
such denial or explaining that an extension of the time for processing the claim
is necessary, written in a manner calculated to be understood by such
person.  After receipt of such notice, or expiration of 90 days
without any response from the Claims Board, the Participant may appeal the
decision in writing to the Senior Executive Vice President of AT T in charge
of Human Resources, or to the person s successor, within 90 days, except that if
the Participant is an Insider, as that term is used in the 2006 Incentive Plan,
then the Participant's appeal shall be to the Committee.  The
Participant shall receive written notice within 60 days of the resolution of the
appeal, and if denied, setting forth reasons for the denial or explaining that
an extension of time for processing the appeal is necessary, written in a manner
calculated to be understood by such person.  If no notice of the
decision on the Participant s appeal is furnished within the required time
frame, the appeal will be deemed denied. The Participant shall receive a full
and fair review of the decision denying the claim in accordance with the
requirements of ERISA. 

All
interpretations, determinations and decisions of the Claims Board with respect
to any claim, including without limitation the appeal of any claim, shall be
made by the Claims Board, in its sole discretion, based on the Plan and
comments, documents, records, and other information presented to it, and shall
be final, conclusive and binding. 

The
claims procedures set forth in this section are intended to comply with United
States Department of Labor Regulation   2560.503-1 and should be construed
in accordance with such regulation.  In no event shall it be
interpreted as expanding the rights of claimants beyond what is required by
United States Department of Labor Regulation   2560.503-1. 

Article
4 - Contributions 

4.1             Election to Make
Contributions.  

      (a)     The
Committee shall establish dates and other conditions for participation in the
Plan and making contributions as it deems appropriate.  Except as
otherwise provided by the Committee, each year an Employee who is an Eligible
Employee as of September 30 may thereafter make an election on or prior to the
last Business Day of the immediately following November (such election shall be
cancelled if the Employee is not an Eligible Employee on the last day such an
election may be made) to contribute on a pre-tax basis, through payroll
deductions, any combination of the following: 

(1)  From
6% to 30% (in whole percentage increments) of the Participant s monthly Base
Compensation, other than Annual Bonus, during the calendar year (the Plan Year
for such contributions) following the calendar year of such
election.  The Employee Contributions shall be used to acquire Share
Units to be credited to the Share Deferral Account for that Plan
Year. 

      (2)  Up
to 95% (in whole percentage increments or limited to the target amount) of a
Short Term Incentive Award, or from 6% to 30% (in whole percentage increments)
of Annual Bonus, in each case such contributions shall be made during the second
calendar year (which is the Plan Year for such contributions) following the year
of such election, except that in 2008 a separate election may be made with
respect to contributions to be made in 2009. An Employee may make such an
election with respect to the type of Award (Short Term Incentive Award or Annual
Bonus) that the Employee is under as of the time the Employee s eligibility to
make such election is determined.  If because of a promotion or
otherwise, the Employee receives a different type of Award instead of, or in
partial or full replacement for, the type of Award subject to the Employee s
election for the relevant Plan Year, the election will apply to the other Award
as well, including but not limited to any individual discretionary award related
thereto. 

(b)  The Committee may permit
an Eligible Employee to make an election to purchase Share Units under this Plan
with compensation other than Base Compensation or Short Term Incentive Awards on
such terms and conditions as such Committee may permit from time to time,
provided that any such election is made in accordance with Section 409A of the
Code.  In no event shall an acquisition of Share Units pursuant to
this paragraph (b) or pursuant to the conversion of a right to receive Stock
into Share Units (such as through a distribution of Stock under the 2001
Incentive Plan) result in the crediting of an AT T Matching Contribution or
Options. 

(c)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, no election shall be
effective to the extent it would permit an Employee Contribution or distribution
to be made that is not in compliance with Section 409A of the
Code.  To the extent such election related to Employee Contributions
that complied with such statute and regulations thereunder, that portion of the
election shall remain valid, except as otherwise provided under this
Plan. 

(d)  To
the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, AT T may refuse or
terminate, in whole or in part, any election to purchase Share Units in the Plan
at any time; provided, however, that only the Committee may take such action
with respect to persons who are Officer Level Employees. 

(e)  In
the event the Participant takes a hardship withdrawal pursuant to Treasury
Regulation  1.401(k)-1 from a benefit plan qualified under the Code and
sponsored by an Employer, any election to make Employee Contributions by such
Participant shall be cancelled on a prospective basis, and the Participant shall
not be permitted to make a new election with respect to Employee Contributions
that would be contributed during the then current and immediately following
calendar year. 

4.2           Purchase
of Share Units. 

      (a)
Employee Contributions (as well as any corresponding AT T Matching
Contributions) shall be made pursuant to a proper election, only during the
Participant s lifetime; provided, however, with respect to Employee Contribution
elections made prior to 2007, the Employee must remain an Eligible Employee
while making any such contributions.  In the event of a Change in
Control of an Employer, subsequent compensation from the Employer may not be
contributed to the Plan.  The Employer may continue the then current
elections of the participants under a subsequent plan in order to comply with
applicable tax laws. 

(b)  The
number of Share Units purchased by a Participant during a calendar month shall
be found by dividing the Participant's Employee Contributions during the month
by the FMV of a share of Stock on the last day of such month. 

(c)  A
contribution to the Plan shall be made when the compensation   from which the
contribution is to be deducted   is to be paid ( paid,  as used in this Plan,
includes amounts contributed to the Plan that would have been paid were it not
for an election under this Plan), as determined by the relevant
Employer.   The Committee may modify or change this paragraph (c)
from time to time. 

4.3             Reinvestment of
Dividends.  

      In the
month containing a record date for a cash dividend on Stock, each Share Deferral
Account shall be credited with that number of Share Units equal to the declared
dividend per share of Stock, multiplied by the number of Share Units held in
such Share Deferral Account as of such record date, and dividing the product by
the FMV of a share of Stock on the last day of such month. 

Article
5 - AT T Matching Contributions 

5.1             AT T Match.  

        (a) Each month AT T shall credit
the Participant's relevant Share Deferral Account with  the number of
 Matching Share Units  found by taking eighty percent (80%) of the Participant's
Employee Contributions from Base Compensation made to this Plan and to the Cash
Deferral Plan during the month with respect to the first six percent (6%) of the
Participant s monthly Match Eligible Compensation (as defined below) and
dividing the resulting figure by the FMV of the Stock on the last day of such
month. The monthly  Match Eligible Compensation  shall be the sum
of: 

(1) the
monthly Employee Contributions from Base Compensation to this Plan and the Cash
Deferral Plan (in the aggregate,  Deferred BC ), plus 

(2) the
amount of the Participant s monthly Base Compensation in excess of the Deferred
BC ( Non-Deferred BC ) but only to the extent such monthly Non-Deferred BC, when
aggregated with the Participant s total Non-Deferred BC for prior months in such
Plan Year, as determined by the relevant Employer, exceeds the limit in effect
under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code applicable with respect to such Plan
Year. 

The
foregoing formula shall apply regardless of whether or not the Participant makes
contributions to a 401(k) plan. 

A Participant may receive Matching
Share Units in a Share Deferral Account for a particular form of compensation
only if the Participant is then making contributions to the same Share Deferral
Account; provided, however, this condition shall not apply for purposes of
determining under Section 5.1(a)(2) whether the limit described therein has been
reached. 

As provided in the definition of Share
Deferral Account, Matching Share Units shall be credited to the respective Share
Deferral Account that is related to the same form of Employee Contributions
(either (1) Base Compensation excluding Annual Bonus or (2) Annual
Bonus). 

(b) In the sole discretion of the
Committee, in the event the Committee reduces the number of Options that
AT T issues for each Share Unit purchased, the Committee may provide for the
contribution of a Bonus Matching Contribution on such terms as the Committee
determines.  Such Bonus Matching Contribution may not exceed 20% of
the Participant s Employee Contributions for the month.  The Bonus
Matching Contribution shall be subject to such terms and conditions as required
by the Committee and, unless otherwise provided by the Committee, to the same
vesting and distribution requirements as AT T Matching
Contributions. 

5.2             Distribution of Share Units Acquired
with Matching Contributions . 

      A
Participant's Matching Share Units shall be distributed in a lump sum, in
accordance with the Plan's distribution provisions, in the earlier of: (a) the
calendar year following the calendar year of the Termination of Employment of
the Participant, or (b) the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age
55, in each case only with respect to Matching Share Units relating to Share
Deferral Accounts for Plan Years before such distribution calendar
year. 

Matching
Share Units acquired as part of a Share Deferral Account that commences in or
after the calendar year the Employee reaches age 55 or after the calendar year
in which the Employee Terminates Employment will be distributed in the same
manner and time as other Share Units in such Share Deferral
Account. 

Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this section, Matching Share Units acquired in 2008
and later shall be distributed at the same time as other Share Units (including
those acquired with Employee Contributions) in the same Share Deferral
Account. 

Article
6 - Distributions 

6.1  

Distributions of Share
      Units.  

(a)  Initial
Election with Respect to a Share Deferral Account.  At the time the
Participant makes an election to make Employee Contributions with respect to a
Share Deferral Account, the Participant shall also elect the calendar year the
Share Deferral Account shall be distributed, which may be from the first through
fifth calendar years after the Plan Year the Account commenced (except as
otherwise provided in this Plan with respect to Matching Share
Units).  For example, if an Account commenced in 2005, the Participant
may elect to commence the distribution in any calendar year from and including
2006 to and including 2010.  If no timely distribution election is
made by the Participant, then the Participant will be deemed to have made an
election to have the Share Deferral Account distributed in a single installment
in the first calendar year after the calendar year the Account
commenced.  However, for purposes of Initial Elections with respect to
Plan Years prior to 2008 only, in the event the Participant Terminates
Employment, the distribution of the Share Deferral Unit shall occur in the
calendar year following the calendar year of the Participant s Termination of
Employment unless the Employee has made an irrevocable election under (b),
below. 

(b)  Election
to Delay a Scheduled Distribution.  A Participant may elect to defer a
scheduled distribution of a Share Deferral Account for five (5) additional
calendar years beyond that previously elected (except as otherwise provided in
this Plan with respect to Matching Share Units).  Unless otherwise
provided by the Committee, the election to defer the distribution must be made
on or after October 1, and on or before the last Business Day of the next
following December, of the calendar year that is the second calendar year
preceding the calendar year of the relevant scheduled
distribution.  To make this election, the Participant must be an
Eligible Employee both on the September 30 immediately preceding such election
and on the last day such an election may be made.  For example, an
election to defer a scheduled distribution in 2010 must be made during the
period from October 1, 2008, through the last business day of December 2008, and
the Participant must be an Eligible Employee both on September 30, 2008, and the
last business day of December 2008.  An election to defer the
distribution of a Share Deferral Account may not be made in the same calendar
year that the election to establish the Share Deferral Account is
made.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, (1) an
election to defer the distribution of a Share Deferral Account must be made at
least 12 months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment under the prior
distribution election and (2) the election shall not take effect until at least
12 months after the date on which the election is made. 

(c)  A
Participant s Share Deferral Account shall be distributed to the Participant on
March 10 (or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable as determined by
AT T) of the calendar year elected by the Participant for that
Account.  In the event the distribution is to be made to a  Specified
Employee  as a result of the Participant s Termination of Employment (other than
as a result of a Change in Control), the distribution shall not occur until the
later of such March 10 or six (6) months after the Termination of Employment,
except it shall be distributed upon the Participant s earlier death in
accordance with this Plan. 

6.2           Death
of the Participant. 

      In the
event of the death of a Participant, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this Plan, all undistributed Share Deferral Accounts shall be distributed to the
Participant's beneficiary in accordance with the AT T Rules for Employee
Beneficiary Designations, as the same may be amended from time to time, within
the later of 90 days following such determination or the end of the calendar
year in which determination was made. 

6.3             Unforeseeable Emergency
Distribution . 

      If a
Participant experiences an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  the Participant may submit
a written petition to AT T (the Committee in the case of Officer Level
Employees), to receive a partial or full distribution of his Share Deferral
Account(s).  In the event that AT T (the Committee in the case of
Officer Level Employees), upon review of the written petition of the
Participant, determines in its sole discretion that the Participant has suffered
an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  AT T shall make a distribution to the
Participant from the Participant s Share Deferral Accounts (other than Matching
Share Units), on a pro-rata basis, within the later of 90 days following such
determination or the end of the calendar year in which determination was made,
subject to the following: 

(a)            Unforeseeable
Emergency  shall mean a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting
from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s legal spouse,
the Participant s beneficiary, or the Participant s dependent (as defined in
Code Section 152, without regard to Code Section 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and
(d)(1)(B)); loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or other similar
extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events
beyond the control of the Participant, all as determined in the sole discretion
of the Committee.  Whether a Participant is faced with an
Unforeseeable Emergency permitting a distribution is to be determined based on
the relevant facts and circumstances of each case, but, in any case, a
distribution on account of Unforeseeable Emergency shall not be made to the
extent that such emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or
compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s
assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe
financial hardship, or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan. 

(b)           The
amount of a distribution to be made because of an Unforeseeable Emergency shall
not exceed the lesser of (i) the FMV of the Participant's vested Share Deferral
Account, calculated as the date on which the amount becomes payable, as
determined by AT T (the Committee in the case of Officer Level Employees) in
its sole discretion, and (ii) the amount reasonably necessary, as determined by
the AT T (the Committee in the case of Officer Level Employees) in its sole
discretion, to satisfy the emergency need (which may include amounts necessary
to pay any Federal, state, local, or foreign income taxes or penalties
reasonably anticipated to result from the
distribution).  Determinations of the amount reasonably necessary to
satisfy the emergency need shall take into account any additional compensation
that is available if the plan provides for cancellation of a deferral election
upon a payment due to an Unforeseeable Emergency.  The determination
of amounts reasonably necessary to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency need is
not required to, but may, take into account any additional compensation that,
due to the Unforeseeable Emergency, is available under another nonqualified
deferred compensation plan but has not actually been paid, or that is available
due to the Unforeseeable Emergency under another plan that would provide for
deferred compensation except due to the application of the effective date
provisions under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-6. 

(c)           Upon
such distribution on account of an Unforeseeable Emergency under this Plan, any
election to make Employee Contributions by such Participant shall be immediately
cancelled, and the Participant shall not be permitted to make a new election
with respect to Employee Contributions that would be contributed during the then
current and immediately following calendar year. 

6.4           Ineligible
Participant. 

      Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if AT T receives an
opinion from counsel selected by AT T, or a final determination is made by a
Federal, state or local government or agency, acting within its scope of
authority, to the effect that an individual s continued participation in the
Plan would violate applicable law, then such person shall not make further
contributions to the Plan to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the
Code. 

6.5 

Distribution
      Process. 

A Share
Deferral Account shall be distributed under this Plan by taking the number of
Share Units comprising the Account to be distributed and converting them into an
equal number of shares of Stock.  (Once distributed, a Share Unit
shall be canceled.) 

Article
7 - Transition Provisions 

7.1  

Stockholder Approval

The Plan
was approved by Stockholders at the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. 

7.2             2005 Share Deferral
Accounts.  

      Notwithstanding
Article 4 to the contrary, if an Employee is an Eligible Employee on September
30, 2004, the Employee may make an election under Article 4 on or prior to
December 15, 2004, with respect to the establishment of a Share Deferral Account
for the (i) contribution of Base Compensation and/or Short Term Incentive Awards
paid during the period from January 1, 2005, through January 15, 2006, which
shall be the Plan Year for such Share Deferral Account; and/or (ii) the
conversion of a distribution of Stock that would be made during the same Plan
Year pursuant to the 2001 Incentive Plan into an equal number of Share Units, so
long as such conversion would not cause the recognition of income for Federal
income tax purposes in respect of such distribution of Stock prior to
distribution of Share Units under this Plan. 

7.3           2007
Amendments. 

      (a)
Amendments made to the Plan on November 15, 2007, shall be effective January 1,
2008. except for amendments to this Article 7, which shall be effective upon
adoption.  Any Participants electing prior to November 15, 2007, to
make Employee Contributions in 2008 shall have their elections canceled if they
do not consent by December 14, 2007, to all prior amendments to this Plan and to
the Cash Deferral Plan.  Subject to the foregoing consent
requirements, all Employee Contribution elections made prior to 2008, including
but not limited to elections to contribute Stock that would be distributed under
the 2001 Incentive Plan or a successor plan, shall remain in force, subject to
all other terms of the amended Plan. In addition, all unvested but not forfeited
Matching Share Units shall vest on November 15, 2007.  Matching Shares
that have been forfeited shall not be reinstated, and no amendment to this Plan
shall be interpreted as reinstating such forfeitures. 

(b)  Not
withstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, a Participant who as of
December 29, 2006, was eligible for an additional payment pursuant to Section 4A
of the BellSouth Corporation Executive Incentive Award Deferral Plan shall not,
with respect to the 2008 Plan Year, receive Matching Share Units on Base
Compensation that exceeds $230,000. 

7.4           2008
Amendments. 

        For Plan Years prior to 2009,
Participants who, at the time of the determination of their eligibility to
participate in an Account, are paid through a  sales plan  involving the use of
commissions may elect to contribute up to 40% of Base
Compensation.  For the 2008 Plan Year, only Salary and Short Term
Incentive Awards paid after Termination of Employment may be contributed to the
Plan. 

Article
8 - Options 

8.1            Grants.  

      Options
may be issued in definitive form or recorded on the books and records of
AT T for the account of the Participant, at the discretion of
AT T.  If AT T elects not to issue the Options in definitive
form, they shall be deemed issued, and the Participants shall have all rights
incident thereto as if they were issued on the dates provided herein, without
further action on the part of AT T or the Participant.  In
addition to the terms herein, all Options shall be subject to such additional
provisions and limitations as provided in any Administrative Procedures adopted
by the Committee prior to the issuance of such Options.  The number of
Options issued to a Participant shall be reflected on the Participant's annual
statement of account. 

8.2             Term of Options.  

      The
Options may only be exercised:  (a) after the earlier of (i) the
expiration of one (1) year from date of issue or (ii) the Participant's
Termination of Employment, and (b) no later than the tenth (10 th )
anniversary of their issue; and Options shall be subject to earlier termination
as provided herein. 

8.3             Exercise Price.  

      The
Exercise Price of an Option shall be the FMV of the Stock on the date of
issuance of the Option, and an Option may not be repriced. 

8.4             Issuance of
Options . 

(a)  For
each Share Deferral Account established by a Participant: 

(1)  on
June 15 of the Plan Year for the Share Deferral Account, the Participant shall
receive two (2) Options for each Share Unit acquired by the Participant as part
of such Share Deferral Account during the immediately preceding January through
May period with Employee Contributions of Base Compensation and/or Short Term
Incentive Award.  A fractional number of Options shall be rounded up
to the next whole number. 

(2)  on
the February 15 immediately following the Plan Year for the Share Deferral
Account, a Participant shall receive: 

(i)       two (2)
Options for each Share Unit acquired by the Participant as part of such Share
Deferral Account during the immediately preceding June through the remainder of
the relevant Plan Year with Employee Contributions of Base Compensation and/or
Short Term Incentive Award; and 

(ii)           two
(2) Options for each Share Unit acquired prior to such date by the Participant
with dividend equivalents that were derived, directly or indirectly (such as
dividend equivalents paid on Share Units acquired with dividend equivalents),
from Share Units acquired with Employee Contributions as part of such Share
Deferral Account. 

(b) A
fractional number of Options shall be rounded up to the next whole
number. 

(c) If
Stock is not traded on the NYSE on any of the foregoing Option issuance dates,
then the Options shall not be issued until the next such day on which Stock is
so traded. 

(d) If a
Participant Terminates Employment other than (i) while Retirement eligible or
(ii) because of death or Disability, no further Options shall be issued to or
with respect to such Participant.  In the event of re-Employment
following a Termination of Employment, the preceding sentence shall not apply to
those Options resulting from participation in the Plan after such re-Employment
until a subsequent Termination of Employment. 

(e) No
more than 400,000 Options shall be issued to any individual under this Plan
during a calendar year.  No Share Unit may be counted more than once
for the issuance of Options. 

(f) The
Committee may, in its sole discretion, at any time, increase or lower the number
of Options that are to be issued for each Share Unit acquired, not to exceed two
(2) Options per Share Unit purchased.  However, if the Committee
lowers the number of Options, then such change shall only be effective with
respect to the next Share Deferral Account a Participant may elect to
establish. 

(g) The
Committee may also, at any time and in any manner, limit the number of Options
which may be acquired as a result of the Short Term Incentive Award being
contributed to the Plan.  Further, except as otherwise provided by the
Committee, in determining the number of Options to be issued to a Participant
with respect to a Participant's contribution of a Short Term Incentive Award to
the Plan and subsequent crediting of Share Units, Options may be issued only
with respect to an amount which does not exceed the target amount of such award
(or such other portion of the award as may be determined by the
Committee).  Where a Participant s election to contribute a Short Term
Incentive Award to the Plan becomes applicable to Annual Bonus, the above
limitation on options shall apply to the contribution of Annual Bonus as though
it were a Short Term Incentive Award. 

(h) No
options shall be issued to or in respect of a Participant for a particular
issuance, unless at least ten (10) Options will be issued to that
Participant. 

8.5             Exercise and Payment of
Options . 

      Options
shall be exercised by providing notice to the designated agent selected by
AT T (if no such agent has been designated, then to AT T), in the manner
and form determined by AT T, which notice shall be irrevocable, setting
forth the exact number of shares of Stock with respect to which the Option is
being exercised and including with such notice payment of the Exercise
Price.  When Options have been transferred, AT T or its designated
agent may require appropriate documentation that the person or persons
exercising the Option, if other than the Participant, has the right to exercise
the Option.  No Option may be exercised with respect to a fraction of
a share of Stock. 

Exercises
of Options may be effected only on days and during the hours that the New York
Stock Exchange is open for regular trading or as otherwise provided or limited
by AT T.  If an Option expires on a day or at a time when
exercises are not permitted, then the Options may be exercised no later than the
immediately preceding date and time that the Options were
exercisable. 

The
Exercise Price shall be paid in full at the time of exercise.  No
Stock shall be issued or transferred until full payment has been received
therefore. 

Payment
may be made: 

(a) in
cash, or 

(b)
unless otherwise provided by the Committee at any time, and subject to such
additional terms and conditions and/or modifications as AT T may impose from
time to time, and further subject to suspension or termination of this provision
by AT T at any time, by: 

(i) delivery
of Stock owned by the Participant in partial (if in partial payment, then
together with cash) or full payment; provided, however, as a condition to paying
any part of the Exercise Price in Stock, at the time of exercise of the Option,
the Participant must establish to the satisfaction of AT T that the Stock
tendered to AT T must have been held by the Participant for a minimum of six
(6) months preceding the tender; or 

(ii) if
AT T has designated a stockbroker to act as AT T's agent to process
Option exercises, issuance of an exercise notice to such stockbroker together
with instructions irrevocably instructing the stockbroker:  (A) to
immediately sell (which shall include an exercise notice that becomes effective
upon execution of a sell order) a sufficient portion of the Stock to pay the
Exercise Price of the Options being exercised and the required tax withholding,
and (B) to deliver on the settlement date the portion of the proceeds of the
sale equal to the Exercise Price and tax withholding to AT T.  In
the event the stockbroker sells any Stock on behalf of a Participant, the
stockbroker shall be acting solely as the agent of the Participant, and AT T
disclaims any responsibility for the actions of the stockbroker in making any
such sales.  No Stock shall be issued until the settlement date and
until the proceeds (equal to the Exercise Price and tax withholding) are paid to
AT T. 

If
payment is made by the delivery of Stock, the value of the Stock delivered shall
be equal to the FMV of the Stock on the day preceding the date of exercise of
the Option. 

Restricted
Stock may not be used to pay the Option exercise price. 

8.6             Restrictions on Exercise and
Transfer.  

      No Option
shall be transferable except: (a) upon the death of a Participant in accordance
with AT T's Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and (b) in the case of any holder after the
Participant's death, only by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution.  During the Participant's lifetime, the Participant's
Options shall be exercisable only by the Participant or by the Participant's
guardian or legal representative.  After the death of the Participant,
an Option shall only be exercised by the holder thereof (including but not
limited to an executor or administrator of a decedent's estate) or his or her
guardian or legal representative.  In each such case the Option holder
shall be considered a Participant for the limited purpose of exercising such
Options. 

8.7             Termination of
Employment . 

      (a)   Not Retirement
Eligible.   Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, if a
Participant Terminates Employment while not Retirement eligible, a Participant's
Options may be exercised, to the extent then exercisable: 

(i) if
such Termination of Employment is by reason of death or Disability, then for a
period of three (3) years from the date of such Termination of Employment or
until the expiration of the stated term of such Option, whichever period is
shorter; or 

(ii) if
such Termination of Employment is for any other reason, then for a period of one
(1) year from the date of such Termination of Employment or until the expiration
of the stated term of such Option, whichever period is shorter. 

(b)   Retirement
Eligible.   Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, if a
Participant Terminates Employment while Retirement eligible, the Participant's
Option may be exercised, to the extent then exercisable:  (i) for a
period of five (5) years from the date of Retirement or (ii) until the
expiration of the stated term of such Option, whichever period is
shorter. 

(c) Re-Employment of a Participant
after a Termination of Employment shall have no effect on the periods during
which Options resulting from the prior Employment may be
exercised.  For example, if the Option exercise period has been
shortened because of the prior Termination of Employment, it shall not be
extended because of the re-Employment. 

(d)  Notwithstanding any
other definition of Termination of Employment under this Plan, for purposes of
this Article 8   Options only, a Termination of Employment shall mean the
cessation of the Employee being employed by any corporation, partnership,
venture or other entity in which AT T holds, directly or indirectly, a 50%
or greater ownership interest, including but not limited to where AT T
ceases to hold such interest in the employing company.  In addition,
the definition of Retirement for purposes of this Article 8 shall use the
immediately foregoing definition of Termination of Employment in  lieu
of any other definition. 

Article 9 - Discontinuation,
Termination, Amendment . 

9.1             AT T's Right to Discontinue
Offering Share Units.  

      The
Committee may at any time discontinue offerings of Share Units under the
Plan.  Any such discontinuance shall have no effect upon existing
Share Units or the terms or provisions of this Plan as applicable to such Share
Units. 

9.2             AT T's Right to Terminate
Plan.  

      The
Committee may terminate the Plan at any time.  Upon termination of the
Plan, contributions shall no longer be made under the Plan. 

After
termination of the Plan, Participants shall continue to earn dividend
equivalents in the form of Share Units on undistributed Share Units and shall
continue to receive all distributions under this Plan at such time as provided
in and pursuant to the terms and conditions of Participant's elections and this
Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the termination of the Plan
shall be made solely in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and in no event
shall cause the accelerated distribution of any Account unless such termination
is effected in accordance with Section 409A of the Code. 

The
Committee may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part including but not
limited to changing the formulas for determining the amount of AT T Matching
Contributions under Article 5 or decreasing the number of Options to be issued
under Article 8; provided, however, that no amendment, including but not limited
to an amendment to this section, shall be effective, without the consent of a
Participant, to alter, to the material detriment of such Participant, a Share
Deferral Account of the Participant, other than as provided elsewhere in this
section.   For purposes of this section, an alteration to the
material detriment of a Participant shall include, but not be limited to, a
material reduction in the period of time over which Stock may be distributed to
a Participant, any reduction in the Participant's number of vested Share Units
or Options, or an increase in the Exercise Price or decrease in the term of an
Option.   Any such consent may be in a writing, telecopy, or
e-mail or in another electronic format. An election to acquire Share Units with
Employee Contributions shall be conclusively deemed to be the consent of the
Participant to any and all amendments to the Plan prior to such election, and
such consent shall be a condition to making any election with respect to
Employee Contributions. 

Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this section of the Plan, the Committee
may modify this Plan with respect to any person subject to the provisions of
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ( Exchange Act )
to place additional restrictions on the exercise of any Option or the transfer
of any Stock not yet issued under the Plan. 

The Plan
is established in order to provide deferred compensation to a select group of
management and highly compensated employees with in the meaning of Sections
201(2) and 301(a)(3) of ERISA. To the extent legally required, the Code and
ERISA shall govern the Plan, and if any provision hereof is in violation of an
applicable requirement thereof, the Company reserves the right to retroactively
amend the Plan to comply therewith to the extent permitted under the Code and
ERISA.  The Company also reserves the right to make such other changes
as may facilitate implementation of Section 409A of the
Code.  Provided, however, that in no event shall any such amendments
be made in violation of the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code. 

Article
10   Miscellaneous. 

10.1          Tax Withholding . 

      Upon
distribution of Stock, including but not limited to, shares of Stock issued upon
the exercise of an Option, AT T shall withhold shares of Stock sufficient in
value, using the FMV on the date determined by AT T to be used to value the
Stock for tax purposes, to satisfy the minimum amount of Federal, state, and
local taxes required by law to be withheld as a result of such
distribution. 

Any
fractional share of Stock payable to a Participant shall be withheld as
additional Federal withholding, or, at the option of AT T, paid in cash to
the Participant. 

Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method of payment for the
Exercise Price is from the sale by a stockbroker pursuant to Section 8.5,
hereof, of the Stock acquired through the Option exercise, then the tax
withholding shall be satisfied out of the proceeds.  For
administrative purposes in determining the amount of taxes due, the sale price
of such Stock shall be deemed to be the FMV of the Stock. 

10.2          Elections and
Notices.  

      Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of
every kind under this Plan shall be made on forms prepared by AT T or the
General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates
or shall be made in such other manner as permitted or required by AT T or
the General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective
delegates, including through electronic means, over the Internet or
otherwise.  An election shall be deemed made when received by AT T
(or its designated agent, but only in cases where the designated agent has been
appointed for the purpose of receiving such election), which may waive any
defects in form.  Unless made irrevocable by the electing person, each
election with regard to making Employee Contributions or distributions of Share
Deferral Accounts shall become irrevocable at the close of business on the last
day to make such election. AT T may limit the time an election may be made
in advance of any deadline. 

If not otherwise specified by this Plan
or AT T, any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to AT T
under the Plan shall be delivered to the principal office of AT T, directed
to the attention of the Senior Executive Vice President in charge of Human
Resources for AT T or his or her successor.  Such notice shall be
deemed given on the date of delivery. 

Notice to
the Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the
Participant's work or home address as shown on the records of AT T or, at
the option of AT T, to the Participant's e-mail address as shown on the
records of AT T.  It is the Participant's responsibility to ensure
that the Participant's addresses are kept up to date on the records of
AT T.  In the case of notices affecting multiple Participants, the
notices may be given by general distribution at the Participants' work
locations. 

By
participating in the Plan, each Participant agrees that AT T may provide any
documents required or permitted under the Federal or state securities laws,
including but not limited to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by e-mail, by e-mail attachment, or
by notice by e-mail of electronic delivery through AT T's Internet Web site
or by other electronic means. 

10.3          Unsecured General
Creditor . 

      Participants
and their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, and assigns shall have no legal or
equitable rights, interest, or claims in any property or assets of any
Employer.  No assets of any Employer shall be held under any trust for
the benefit of Participants, their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or assigns,
or held in any way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations
of any Employer under this Plan.  Any and all of each Employer's
assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of such
Employer.  The only obligation of an Employer under the Plan shall be
merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of AT T to distribute
shares of Stock corresponding to Share Units and Options, under the
Plan. 

10.4          Non-Assignability . 

      Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign,
transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt, shares of Stock
corresponding to Share Units under the Plan, if any, or any part thereof, which
are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and
non-transferable.  No part of the Stock distributable shall, prior to
actual distribution, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of
any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or
any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a
Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency. 

10.5          Employment Not
Guaranteed . 

      Nothing
contained in this Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a
contract of employment or as giving any employee any right to be retained in the
employ of an Employer or to serve as a director. 

10.6        Errors. 

      At any
time AT T or an Employer may correct any error made under the Plan without
prejudice to AT T or any Employer.  Neither AT T nor any
Employer shall be liable for any damages resulting from failure to timely allow
any contribution to be made to the Plan or for any damages resulting from the
correction of, or a delay in correcting, any error made under the
Plan.  In no event shall AT T or any Employer be liable for
consequential or incidental damages arising out of a failure to comply with the
terms of the Plan. 

The
captions of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of this Plan are for
convenience only and shall not control nor affect the meaning or construction of
any of its provisions. 

10.8          Governing Law . 

      To the
extent not preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all benefits and agreements
hereunder, and any and all disputes in connection therewith, shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Texas,
without regard to conflict or choice of law principles which might otherwise
refer the construction, interpretation or enforceability of this Plan to the
substantive law of another jurisdiction. 

Because
benefits under the Plan are granted in Texas, records relating to the Plan and
benefits thereunder are located in Texas, and the Plan and benefits thereunder
are administered in Texas, AT T and the Participant under this Plan, for
themselves and their successors and assigns, irrevocably submit to the exclusive
and sole jurisdiction and venue of the state or Federal courts of Texas with
respect to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this Plan, the
subject matter of this Plan or any benefits under this Plan, including but not
limited to any disputes arising out of or relating to the interpretation and
enforceability of any benefits or the terms and conditions of this
Plan.  To achieve certainty regarding the appropriate forum in which
to prosecute and defend actions arising out of or relating to this Plan, and to
ensure consistency in application and interpretation of the Governing Law to the
Plan, the parties agree that (a) sole and exclusive appropriate venue for any
such action shall be an appropriate Federal or state court in Dallas County,
Texas, and no other, (b) all claims with respect to any such action shall be
heard and determined exclusively in such Texas court, and no other, (c) such
Texas court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over the person of such
parties and over the subject matter of any dispute relating hereto and (d) that
the parties waive any and all objections and defenses to bringing any such
action before such Texas court, including but not limited to those relating to
lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue or  forum non
conveniens . 

10.9          Plan to Comply with Section
409A.  

      In the
event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the
same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this Plan.  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
in this Plan, each provision in this Plan shall be interpreted to permit the
deferral of compensation in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and any
provision that would conflict with such requirements shall not be valid or
enforceable. 

10.10        Successors and
Assigns . 

      This Plan
shall be binding upon AT T and its successors and
assigns. 

</EX-10.BB>

<EX-10.CC>
 19
 ex10cc.htm
 CASH DEFERRAL PLAN

ex10cc.htm 

Exhibit
10-cc 

AT T
INC. 

CASH
DEFERRAL PLAN 

Adopted
November 19, 2004 

      As
amended through November 20, 2008 

Article
1 - Statement of Purpose 

The
purpose of the Cash Deferral Plan ( Plan ) is to provide savings opportunities
to a select group of management employees of AT T Inc. ( AT T ) and its
Subsidiaries. 

Article
2 - Definitions 

For the
purpose of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context indicates otherwise: 

Annual Bonus .  The
award designated the  Annual Bonus  by AT T (including but not limited to an
award that may be paid in more frequent installments than annually), together
with any individual discretionary award made in connection therewith, or
comparable awards, if any, determined by AT T to be used in lieu of these
awards. 

Base
Compensation.   The following types of cash-based compensation
paid by an Employer (but not including payments made by a non-Employer, such as
state disability payments), before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to
this Plan or reduction pursuant to any deferral plan of an Employer, including
but not limited to a plan that includes a qualified cash or deferral arrangement
under Section 401(k) of the Code: 

(a)   

base
      salary; 

(b)  lump sum payments in
lieu of a base salary increase;  and 

(c)
Annual Bonus. 

Payments
by an Employer under a disability plan made in lieu of any compensation
described  above, shall be deemed to be a part of the respective form
of compensation it replaces for purposes of this definition.  Base
Compensation does not include zone allowances or any other geographical
differential and shall not include payments made in lieu of unused vacation or
other paid days off, and such payments shall not be contributed to this
Plan. 

Determinations
by AT T (the Committee with respect to Officer Level Employees) of the items
that make up Base Compensation shall be final.  The Committee may,
from time to time, add or subtract types of compensation to or from the
definition of   Base Compensation  provided, however, any such
addition or subtraction shall  be effective only with respect to the
next period in which a Participant may make an election to establish a Cash
Deferral Account.  Base Compensation that was payable in a prior Plan
Year but paid in a later Plan Year shall not be used to determine Employee
Contributions in the later Plan Year. 

Business Day.   Any
day during regular business hours that AT T is open for
business. 

Cash Deferral Account  or  Account  The Account or
Accounts established annually by an election by a Participant to make Employee
Contributions to the Plan with each account relating to a Plan
Year.  For each Plan Year after 2008, there shall be a separate Cash
Deferral Account for Base Compensation (excluding Annual Bonus) and a separate
Cash Deferral Account for the Short Term Incentive Award and/or Annual
Bonus.  Earnings on each of Employee Contributions shall accrue to the
respective Cash Deferral Accounts where they are earned 

Change in
Control.   With respect to AT T s direct and indirect
ownership of an Employer, a  Change in the effective control of a Corporation, 
as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)(A)(1), regardless
of whether the Employer is a corporation or non corporate entity as permitted by
the regulation, and using  50 percent  in lieu of  30 percent  in such
regulation.  A Change in Control will not apply to AT T
itself. 

Chief Executive
Officer.   The Chief Executive Officer of AT T
Inc. 

Code.   References to
the Code shall be to provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, including regulations promulgated thereunder and successor
provisions.  Similarly, references to regulations shall include
amendments and successor provisions. 

Committee.   The
Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of AT T
Inc. 

Disability.  Absence of an
Employee from work with an Employer under the relevant Employer's disability
plan. 

Eligible
Employee.   An Employee who: 

      (a) is a
full or part time, salaried Employee of AT T or an Employer in which
AT T has a direct or indirect 100% ownership interest and who is on active
duty or Leave of Absence (but only while such Employee is deemed by the Employer
to be an Employee of such Employer); 

(b) is,
as determined by AT T, a member of Employer's  select group of management or
highly compensated employees  within the meaning of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder ( ERISA ),
which is deemed to include each Officer Level Employee; and 

(c) has
an employment status which has been approved by AT T to be eligible to
participate in this Plan or is an Officer Level Employee. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, AT T (the Committee with respect to Officer Level Employees)
may, from time to time, exclude any Employee or group of Employees from being
deemed an  Eligible Employee  under this Plan. 

In the
event a court or other governmental authority determines that an individual was
improperly excluded from the class of persons who would be permitted to make
Employee Contributions during a particular time for any reason, that individual
shall not be permitted to make such contributions for purposes of the Plan for
the period of time prior to such determination. 

Employee.   Any
person employed by an Employer and paid on an Employer s payroll system,
excluding persons hired for a fixed maximum term and excluding persons who are
neither citizens nor permanent residents of the United States, all as determined
by AT T.   For
purposes of this Plan, a person on Leave of Absence who otherwise would be an
Employee shall be deemed to be an Employee. 

Employee
Contributions.   Amounts credited to a Cash Deferral Account
pursuant to Section 4.1 (Election to Make Contributions) of the
Plan 

Employer.   AT T
Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries. 

Incentive Award.   A
cash award paid by an Employer (and not by a non-Employer, such as state
disability payments) under the Short Term Incentive Plan or any successor plan,
the 2006 Incentive Plan or any successor plan, or any other award that the
Committee specifically permits to be contributed to a Cash Deferral Account
under this Plan (regardless of the purpose of the award). 

Leave of
Absence.   Where a person is absent from employment with an
Employer on a leave of absence, military leave, sick leave, or Disability, where
the leave is given in order to prevent a break in the continuity of term of
employment, and permission for such leave is granted (and not revoked) in
conformity with the rules of the Employer that employs the individual, as
adopted from time to time, and the Employee is reasonably expected to return to
service.  Except as set forth below, the leave shall not exceed six
(6) months for purposes of this Plan, and the Employee shall Terminate
Employment upon termination of such leave if the Employee does not return to
work prior to or upon expiration  of such six (6) month period, unless
the individual retains a right to reemployment under law or by
contract.  A twenty-nine (29) month limitation shall apply in lieu of
such six (6) month limitation if the leave is due to the Employee being
"disabled" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation
 1.409A-3(i)(4)).  A Leave of Absence shall not commence or shall be
deemed to cease under the Plan where the Employee has incurred a Termination of
Employment.. 

Officer Level
Employee.   Any executive officer of AT T, as that term is
used under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any Employee
that is an  officer level  Employee for compensation purposes as shown on the
records of AT T. 

Participant.   An
Employee or former Employee who participates in this Plan. 

Plan Interest
Rate.   An annual rate of interest equal to Moody s
Long-Term 

      Corporate
Bond Yield Average for the September preceding the calendar year during which
the interest rate will apply.   The Committee may choose another
method of calculating the Plan Interest Rate, but such other method may only
apply to Cash Deferral Units that Participants have not yet elected to
establish. 

Plan Year.   Each of
the following shall be a Plan year:  the period from January 1, 2005
through January 15, 2006; the period January 16, 2006 through December 31, 2006;
and, for all later Plan Years, it is defined as the period from January 1
through December 31. 

Retirement or
Retire.   Termination of Employment on or after the date the
Participant has attained one of the following combinations of age and Net
Credited Service: 

Net Credited
      Service  

Age 

For
purposes of this Plan only, Net Credited Service shall be calculated in the same
manner as  Pension Eligibility Service  under the AT T Pension Benefit Plan
  Nonbargained Program ( Pension Plan ), as the same existed on October1, 2008,
except that service with an Employer shall be counted as though the Employer
were a  Participating Company  under the Pension Plan and the Employee was a
participant in the Pension Plan. 

Short Term Incentive
Award.   A cash award paid by an Employer (and not by a
non-Employer, such as state disability payments) under the Short Term Incentive
Plan or any successor plan, together with any individual discretionary award
made in connection therewith; an award under a similar  plan intended
by the Committee to be in lieu of an award under such Short Term Incentive Plan,
including, but not limited to, Performance Units granted under the 2006
Incentive Plan or any successor plan   It shall also include any
other award that the Committee designates as a Short Term Incentive Award
specifically for purposes of this Plan (regardless of the purpose of the award)
provided the deferral election is made in accordance with Section
409A. 

Specified
Employee.   Any Participant who is a  Key Employee  (as defined
in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), as determined
by AT T in accordance with its uniform policy with respect to all
arrangements subject to Code Section 409A, based upon the 12-month period ending
on each December 31st (such 12-month period is referred to below as the
 identification period ).  All Participants who are determined to be
Key Employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5)
thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Key Employees for
purposes of the Plan during the 12-month period that begins on the first day of
the 4th month following the close of such identification period. 

Subsidiary.   Any
corporation, partnership, venture or other entity or business with which
AT T would be considered a single employer under Sections 414(a) and (c) of
the Code, using 50% as the ownership threshold as provided under Section 409A of
the Code. 

Termination of Employment. 
References herein to  Termination of Employment,"  Terminate Employment  or a
similar reference, shall mean the event where the Employee has a  separation
from service,  as defined under Section 409A, with all Employers. For purposes
of this Plan, a Termination of Employment with respect to an Employer shall be
deemed to occur when such Employer incurs a Change in Control. 

Article
3 - Administration of the Plan 

3.1            The Committee . 

      Except as
delegated by this Plan or by the Committee, the Committee shall be the
administrator of the Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and
apply its provisions and all questions of administration, interpretation and
application of the Plan, including, without limitation, questions and
determinations of eligibility  entitlement to benefits and payment of
benefits, all in its sole and absolute discretion.  The Committee may
further establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations and such
additional terms and conditions regarding participation in the Plan as it may
deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the
Plan.  References in this Plan to determinations or other actions by
AT T, herein, shall mean actions authorized by the Committee, the Chief
Executive Officer, the Senior Executive Vice President of AT T in charge of
Human Resources, or their respective successors or duly authorized delegates, in
each case in the discretion of such person.  All decisions by the
Committee, its delegate or AT T, as applicable, shall be final and
binding. 

3.2          Claims
Procedure. 

        Subject to the authority of the
Committee over the Plan, AT T shall appoint a Claims Board to adjudicate
claims brought by or in respect to Participants and their beneficiaries relating
to benefits under the Plan.  A Participant may apply in writing to the
Claims Board to make a claim under this Plan.  The Claims Board shall
provide written notice within 90 days to a Participant whose claim hereunder has
been denied, setting forth reasons for such denial or explaining that an
extension of the time for processing the claim is necessary, written in a manner
calculated to be understood by such person.  After receipt of such
notice, or expiration of 90 days without any response from the Claims Board, the
Participant may appeal the decision in writing to the Senior Executive Vice
President of AT T in charge of Human Resources, or to the person s
successor, within 90 days, except that if the Participant is an Insider, as that
term is used in the 2006 Incentive Plan, then the Participant's appeal shall be
to the Committee.  The Participant shall receive written notice within
60 days of the resolution of the appeal, and if denied, setting forth reasons
for the denial or explaining that an extension of time for processing the appeal
is necessary, written in a manner calculated to be understood by such
person.  If no notice of the decision on the Participant s appeal is
furnished within the required time frame, the appeal will be deemed
denied.  The Participant shall receive a full and fair review of the
decision denying the claim in accordance with the requirements of
ERISA. 

All
interpretations, determinations and decisions of the Claims Board with respect
to any claim, including without limitation the appeal of any claim, shall be
made by the Claims Board, in its sole discretion, based on the Plan and
comments, documents, records, and other information presented to it, and shall
be final, conclusive and binding. 

The
claims procedures set forth in this section are intended to comply with United
States Department of Labor Regulation   2560.503-1 and should be construed
in accordance with such regulation.  In no event shall it be
interpreted as expanding the rights of claimants beyond what is required by
United States Department of Labor Regulation   2560.503-1. 

Article
4 - Contributions 

4.1             Election to Make
Contributions.  

      (a)     The
Committee shall establish dates and other conditions for participation in the
Plan and making contributions as it deems appropriate.  Except as
otherwise provided by the Committee, each year an Employee who is an Eligible
Employee as of September 30 may thereafter make an election on or prior to the
last Business Day of the immediately following November (such election shall be
cancelled if the Employee is not an Eligible Employee on the last day such an
election may be made) to contribute on a pre-tax basis, through payroll
deductions, any combination of the following: 

(1)  From
1% to 50% (in whole percentage increments) of the Participant s monthly Base
Compensation, other than Annual Bonus, during the calendar year (the Plan Year
for such contributions) following the calendar year of such
election.  Employees who are below the level of Senior Manager, as
shown on the records of AT T at the time of the election, may contribute no
more than 25% or such other amount as determined by AT T. 

(2)  Up
to 95% (in whole percentage increments) of a Short Term Incentive Award, or up
to 50% (in whole percentage increments) of Annual Bonus (25% for Employees who
are below the level of Senior Manager), in each case such contributions shall be
made during the second calendar year (which is the Plan Year for such
contributions) following the year of such election, except that in 2008 a
separate election may be made with respect to contributions to be made in
2009.  An Employee may make such an election with respect to the type
of Award (Short Term Incentive Award or Annual Bonus) that the Employee is under
as of the time the Employee s eligibility to make such election is
determined.  If because of a promotion or otherwise, the Employee
receives a different type of Award instead of or in partial or full replacement
for the type of Award subject to the Employee s election for the relevant Plan
Year, the election will apply to the other Award as well, including but not
limited to any individual discretionary award related thereto. 

(b)  The
Committee may permit an Eligible Employee to make an election to make other
contributions under this Plan with compensation other than Base Compensation or
Short Term Incentive Awards on such terms and conditions as such Committee may
permit from time to time provided that any such election is made in accordance
with Section 409A of the Code.) 

(c)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, no election shall be
effective to the extent it would permit an Employee Contribution or distribution
to be made that is not in compliance with Section 409A of the
Code.  To the extent such election related to Employee Contributions
that complied with such statute and regulations, thereunder, that portion of the
election shall remain valid, except as otherwise provided under this
Plan. 

(d)  To
the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, AT T may refuse or
terminate, in whole or in part, any election to make contributions to the Plan
at any time; provided, however, only the Committee may take such action with
respect to persons who are Officer Level Employees. 

(e)  In
the event the Participant takes a hardship withdrawal pursuant to Treasury
Regulation  1.401(k)-1 from a benefit plan qualified under the Code and
sponsored by an Employer, any election to make Employee Contributions by such
Participant shall be cancelled on a prospective basis, and the Participant shall
not be permitted to make a new election with respect to Employee Contributions
that would be contributed during the then current and immediately following
calendar year. 

(f)  To
the extent a Participant makes contributions to the Plan where the payment of
which would be deductible by AT T under Section 162(m) of the Code without
regard to the size of the distribution, such contributions and earnings thereon
shall be distributed first. 

(g) With
respect to a Plan Year, an Employee may elect to (1) make Employee Contributions
of Base Compensation other than Annual Bonus to this Plan but only if the
Employee elects to contribute at least 15% of Base Compensation other than
Annual Bonus for the same Plan Year to the Stock Purchase and Deferral Plan
and/or (2) make Employee Contributions of Annual Bonus to this Plan but only if
the Employee elects to contribute at least 15% of Annual Bonus for the same Plan
Year to the Stock Purchase and Deferral Plan. 

4.2           Contributions
to a Cash Deferral Account. 

      (a)
Employee Contributions shall be made pursuant to a proper election, only during
the Participant s lifetime; provided, however, with respect to Employee
Contribution elections made prior to 2007, the Employee must remain an Eligible
Employee while making any such contributions.   In the event of a
Change in Control of an Employer, subsequent compensation from the Employer may
not be contributed to the Plan.  The Employer may continue the then
current elections of the participants under a subsequent plan in order to comply
with applicable tax laws. 

(b)  A
Participant s contributions shall be credited to the Participant s Cash Deferral
Account on the day the compensation   from which the contribution is to be
deducted   is to be paid ( paid,  as used in this Plan, includes amounts
contributed to the Plan that would have been paid were it not for an election
under this Plan), as determined by the relevant
Employer.   Earnings on each Cash Deferral Account shall be
recorded on Participant s statements quarterly.  The Committee may
modify or change this paragraph (b) from time to time. 

4.3 

Earnings
      on Cash Deferral Accounts. 

During a
calendar year, the Participant s Cash Deferral Account shall accrue interest on
amounts held by such Account at the Plan Interest Rate for such year, compounded
quarterly on the last day of each quarter.  Interest will accrue on
unpaid amounts in the Cash Deferral Account from the date credited to such
Account. 

Article
5 - Distributions 

5.1  

Distributions of Cash Deferral
      Accounts.  

(a)  Initial
Election with Respect to a Cash Deferred Account.  At the time the
Participant makes an election to make Employee Contributions with respect to a
Cash Deferral Account, the Participant shall also elect the calendar year of the
distribution of the Cash Deferral Account and the number of
installments.   The Participant may elect either of the
following: 

(1)
Specified Date Distribution.  That the distribution of the Cash
Deferral Account commence in the calendar year specified by the Participant, but
no later than the 5 th 
calendar year after the Plan Year the Cash Deferral Account commenced, in up to
Ten (10) installments.  However, for purposes of Initial Elections
with respect to Plan Years prior to 2009 only, in the event the Participant
Terminates Employment prior to the calendar year of the distribution, the Cash
Deferral Account must commence distribution the calendar year following the
calendar year of the Termination of Employment, with the same number of
installments, unless the Employee has made an irrevocable election under (b),
below.  For example, if the Participant elected a 2010 distribution
with five (5) installments, but Terminated Employment in 2007, the Cash Deferral
Account would commence distribution in 2008. 

(2)  Retirement
Distribution.  That the distribution of the Cash Deferral Account
commence the calendar year following the calendar year of Retirement in up to
(10) installments.  If the Participant Terminates Employment while not
Retirement eligible, the distribution shall commence the calendar year following
the calendar year of Termination of Employment, but shall be limited to five (5)
installments.  This distribution alternative will not be available for
Initial Elections made after 2007. 

If no
timely distribution election is made by the Participant, then the Participant
will be deemed to have made an election to have the Cash Deferral Account
distributed in a single installment in the first calendar year after the
calendar year Employee Contributions were first made. 

(b)  If
an Employee elected a Specified Date Distribution for a Cash Deferral Account,
the Employee may elect a new Specified Date Distribution commencement date but
not a new number of installments; provided, however, Termination of Employment
will not accelerate the distribution, unlike the initial deferral
election.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the election of
a new commencement date must be made on or after October 1, and on or before the
last Business Day of the next following December, of the calendar year that is
the second calendar year preceding the calendar year of the relevant
commencement date.   To make this election, the Participant must
be an Eligible Employee both on the September 30 immediately preceding such
election and on the last day such an election may be made.   For
example, an election to defer a scheduled distribution that would otherwise
commence in 2010 must be made during the period from October 1, 2008, through
the last business day of December 2008, and the Participant must be an Eligible
Employee both on September 30, 2008, and the last business day of December
2008.  The new distribution election must delay commencement of the
distribution by five (5) years.  An election to create a new Specified
Date Distribution and defer the commencement of the distribution of a Cash
Deferral Account may not be made in the same calendar year the election to
establish the Cash Deferral Account is made.  Notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in this Plan, (1) such election to create a new Specified Date
Distribution must be made at least 12 months prior to the date of the first
scheduled payment under the prior distribution election and (2) the election
shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the
election is made. 

(c)  A
Participant s Cash Deferral Account shall be distributed to the Participant on
March 10 (or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable, as determined
by AT T) of the calendar year elected by the Participant for the
Account.  In the event the distribution is to be made to a  Specified
Employee  as a result of the Participant s Termination of Employment (other than
as a result of a Change in Control), the distribution shall not occur until the
later of such March 10 or six (6) months after the Termination of Employment,
except it shall be distributed upon the Participant s earlier death in
accordance with this Plan.  The distributions shall continue annually
on each successive March 10 (or such other date as determined by AT T) until
the number of installments elected by the Participant is reached.  In
each installment, AT T shall distribute to the Participant that portion of
the Participant's Cash Deferral Account that is equal to the total dollar amount
of the Participant's Account divided by the number of remaining
installments. 

(d)  The
Committee may establish other distribution alternatives from time to time, but
such alternatives may be offered no earlier than the next period in which a
Participant may make an election to establish a Cash Deferral
Account. 

5.2          Death
of the Participant. 

      In the
event of the death of a Participant, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this Plan, all undistributed Cash Deferral Accounts shall be distributed to the
Participant's beneficiary in accordance with the AT T Rules for Employee
Beneficiary Designations, as the same may be amended from time to time, within
the later of 90 days following such determination or the end of the calendar
year in which determination was made. 

5.3             Unforeseeable Emergency
Distribution . 

      If a
Participant experiences an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  the Participant may submit
a written petition to AT T (the Committee in the case of Officer Level
Employees), to receive a partial or full distribution of his Cash Deferral
Account(s).  In the event that AT T (the Committee in the case of
Officer Level Employees), upon review of the written petition of the
Participant, determines in its sole discretion that the Participant has suffered
an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  AT T shall make a distribution to the
Participant from the Participant s Cash Deferral Accounts , on a pro-rata basis,
within the later of 90 days following such determination or the end of the
calendar year in which determination was made, subject to the
following: 

(a)            Unforeseeable
Emergency  shall mean a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting
from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s legal spouse,
the Participant s beneficiary, or the Participant s dependent (as defined in
Code Section 152, without regard to Code Section 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and
(d)(1)(B)); loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or other similar
extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events
beyond the control of the Participant, all as determined in the sole discretion
of the Committee.  Whether a Participant is faced with an
Unforeseeable Emergency permitting a distribution is to be determined based on
the relevant facts and circumstances of each case, but, in any case, a
distribution on account of Unforeseeable Emergency shall not be made to the
extent that such emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or
compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s
assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe
financial hardship, or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan. 

(b)           The
amount of a distribution to be made because of an Unforeseeable Emergency shall
not exceed the amount reasonably necessary, as determined by AT T (the
Committee in the case of Officer Level Employees) in its sole discretion, to
satisfy the emergency need (which may include amounts necessary to pay any
Federal, state, local, or foreign income taxes or penalties reasonably
anticipated to result from the distribution).  Determinations of the
amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need shall take into
account any additional compensation that is available if the plan provides for
cancellation of a deferral election upon a payment due to an Unforeseeable
Emergency.  The determination of amounts reasonably necessary to
satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency need is not required to, but may, take into
account any additional compensation that, due to the Unforeseeable Emergency, is
available under another nonqualified deferred compensation plan but has not
actually been paid, or that is available due to the Unforeseeable Emergency
under another plan that would provide for deferred compensation except due to
the application of the effective date provisions under Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-6. 

(c)           Upon
such distribution on account of an Unforeseeable Emergency under this Plan, any
election to make Employee Contributions by such Participant shall be immediately
cancelled, and the Participant shall not be permitted to make a new election
with respect to Employee Contributions that would be contributed during the then
current and immediately following calendar year. 

5.4           Ineligible
Participant. 

      Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if AT T receives an
opinion from counsel selected by AT T, or a final determination is made by a
Federal, state or local government or agency, acting within its scope of
authority, to the effect that an individual's continued participation in the
Plan would violate applicable law, then such person shall not make further
contributions to the Plan to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the
Code. 

Article
6 - Transition Provisions 

6.1             2005 Cash Deferral
Accounts.  

      Notwithstanding
Article 4 to the contrary, if an Employee is an Eligible Employee on September
30, 2004, the Employee may make an election under Article 4 on or prior to
December 15, 2004, with respect to the establishment of a Cash Deferral Account
for the contribution of Base Compensation and/or Incentive Awards that would
otherwise be paid during the period from January 1, 2005, through January 15,
2006, which shall be the Plan Year for such Cash Deferral Account. 

6.2           2007
Amendments. 

      Amendments
made to the Plan on November 15, 2007, shall be effective January 1, 2008,
except for amendments to this Article 7, which shall be effective upon
adoption.    Any Participants electing prior to November 15,
2007, to make Employee Contributions in 2008 shall have their elections canceled
if they do not consent by December 14, 2007, to all prior amendments to this
Plan and to the Stock Purchase and Deferral Plan.  Subject to the
foregoing consent requirements, all Employee Contribution elections made prior
to 2008, including but not limited to elections to contribute cash with respect
to Performance Shares granted that would be distributed under the 2001 Incentive
Plan or a successor plan, shall remain in force, subject to all other terms of
the amended Plan. 

6.3             2008
Amendments.   For the 2008 Plan Year, only Salary and Short Term
Incentive Awards paid after Termination of Employment may be contributed to the
Plan. 

Article 7 - Discontinuation,
Termination, Amendment . 

7.1             AT T's Right to Discontinue
Offering Cash Deferral Accounts.  

      The
Committee may at any time discontinue offerings of Cash Deferral Accounts or
contributions under the Plan.  Any such discontinuance shall have no
effect upon existing Cash Deferral Accounts or the terms or provisions of this
Plan as applicable to such Accounts. 

7.2             AT T's Right to Terminate
Plan.  

      The
Committee may terminate the Plan at any time.  Upon termination of the
Plan, contributions shall no longer be made under the Plan. 

After
termination of the Plan, Participants shall continue to earn interest on
undistributed amounts and shall continue to receive all distributions under this
Plan at such time as provided in and pursuant to the terms and conditions of
Participant's elections and this Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the termination of the Plan shall be made solely in accordance with Section 409A
of the Code and in no event shall cause the accelerated distribution of any
Account unless such termination is effected in accordance with Section 409A of
the Code. 

The
Committee may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part; provided, however,
that no amendment, including but not limited to an amendment to this section,
shall be effective, without the consent of a Participant, to alter, to the
material detriment of such Participant, any of the Cash Deferral Accounts of the
Participant, other than as provided elsewhere in this section.  For
purposes of this section, an alteration to the material detriment of a
Participant shall include, but not be limited to, a material reduction in the
period of time over which the Participant s Cash Deferral Account may be
distributed to a Participant, any reduction in the amounts credited to the
Participant's Cash Deferral Accounts, or any reduction in the Plan Interest Rate
(other than as it may fluctuate in accordance with its terms) for Cash Deferral
Accounts previously elected by the Participant.  Any such consent may
be in a writing, telecopy, or e-mail or in another electronic format. An
election to make Employee Contributions shall be conclusively deemed to be the
consent of the Participant to any and all amendments to the Plan prior to such
election, and such consent shall be a condition to making any election with
respect to Employee Contributions. 

The Plan
is established in order to provide deferred compensation to a select group of
management and highly compensated employees with in the meaning of Sections
201(2) and 301(a)(3) of ERISA. To the extent legally required, the Code and
ERISA shall govern the Plan, and if any provision hereof is in violation of an
applicable requirement thereof, the Company reserves the right to retroactively
amend the Plan to comply therewith to the extent permitted under the Code and
ERISA.  The Company also reserves the right to make such other changes
as may facilitate implementation of Section 409A of the
Code.  Provided, however, that in no event shall any such amendments
be made in violation of the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code. 

Article
8 - Miscellaneous 

8.1             Tax Withholding . 

      Upon a
distribution from a Participant s Cash Deferral Account, AT T shall withhold
sufficient amounts to satisfy the minimum amount of Federal, state, and local
taxes required by law to be withheld as a result of such
distribution. 

8.2             Elections and
Notices.  

      Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of
every kind under this Plan shall be made on forms prepared by AT T or the
General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates
or shall be made in such other manner as permitted or required by AT T or
the General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective
delegates, including through electronic means, over the Internet or
otherwise.  An election shall be deemed made when received by AT T
(or its designated agent, but only in cases where the designated agent has been
appointed for the purpose of receiving such election), which may waive any
defects in form.  Unless made irrevocable by the electing person, each
election with regard to making Employee Contributions or distributions of Cash
Deferral Accounts shall become irrevocable at the close of business on the last
day to make such election. AT T may limit the time an election may be made
in advance of any deadline. 

If
not otherwise specified by this Plan or AT T, any notice or filing required
or permitted to be given to AT T under the Plan shall be delivered to the
principal office of AT T, directed to the attention of the Senior Executive
Vice President in charge of Human Resources for AT T or his or her
successor.  Such notice shall be deemed given on the date of
delivery. 

Notice to
the Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the
Participant's work or home address as shown on the records of AT T or, at
the option of AT T, to the Participant's e-mail address as shown on the
records of AT T.  It is the Participant's responsibility to ensure
that the Participant's addresses are kept up to date on the records of
AT T.  In the case of notices affecting multiple Participants, the
notices may be given by general distribution at the Participants' work
locations. 

By
participating in the Plan, each Participant agrees that AT T may provide any
documents required or permitted under the Federal or state securities laws,
including but not limited to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by e-mail, by e-mail attachment, or
by notice by e-mail of electronic delivery through AT T's Internet Web site
or by other electronic means. 

8.3             Unsecured General
Creditor . 

      Participants
and their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, and assigns shall have no legal or
equitable rights, interest, or claims in any property or assets of any
Employer.  No assets of any Employer shall be held under any trust for
the benefit of Participants, their beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or assigns,
or held in any way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations
of any Employer under this Plan.  Any and all of each Employer's
assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of such
Employer.  The only obligation of an Employer under the Plan shall be
merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of AT T to make
distributions under and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 

8.4             Non-Assignability . 

      Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign,
transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt, any Cash Deferral Account
under the Plan, if any, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which
are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No
part of  a distributable Cash Deferral Account shall, prior to actual
distribution, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any
debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any
other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a
Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency. 

8.5             Employment Not
Guaranteed . 

      Nothing
contained in this Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a
contract of employment or as giving any employee any right to be retained in the
employ of an Employer or to serve as a director. 

8.6           Errors. 

      At any
time AT T or an Employer may correct any error made under the Plan without
prejudice to AT T or any Employer.  Neither AT T nor any
Employer shall be liable for any damages resulting from failure to timely allow
any contribution to be made to the Plan or for any damages resulting from the
correction of, or a delay in correcting, any error made under the
Plan.  In no event shall AT T or any Employer be liable for
consequential or incidental damages arising out of a failure to comply with the
terms of the Plan. 

The
captions of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of this Plan are for
convenience only and shall not control nor affect the meaning or construction of
any of its provisions. 

8.8             Governing Law . 

      To the
extent not preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all benefits and agreements
hereunder, and any and all disputes in connection therewith, shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Texas,
without regard to conflict or choice of law principles which might otherwise
refer the construction, interpretation or enforceability of this Plan to the
substantive law of another jurisdiction. 

Because
benefits under the Plan are granted in Texas, records relating to the Plan and
benefits thereunder are located in Texas, and the Plan and benefits thereunder
are administered in Texas, AT T and the Participant under this Plan, for
themselves and their successors and assigns, irrevocably submit to the exclusive
and sole jurisdiction and venue of the state or Federal courts of Texas with
respect to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this Plan, the
subject matter of this Plan or any benefits under this Plan, including but not
limited to any disputes arising out of or relating to the interpretation and
enforceability of any benefits or the terms and conditions of this
Plan.  To achieve certainty regarding the appropriate forum in which
to prosecute and defend actions arising out of or relating to this Plan, and to
ensure consistency in application and interpretation of the Governing Law to the
Plan, the parties agree that (a) sole and exclusive appropriate venue for any
such action shall be an appropriate Federal or state court in Dallas County,
Texas, and no other, (b) all claims with respect to any such action shall be
heard and determined exclusively in such Texas court, and no other, (c) such
Texas court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over the person of such
parties and over the subject matter of any dispute relating hereto and (d) that
the parties waive any and all objections and defenses to bringing any such
action before such Texas court, including but not limited to those relating to
lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue or  forum non
conveniens . 

8.9             Plan to Comply with Section
409A.  

      In the
event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the
same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this Plan.  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
in this Plan, each provision in this Plan shall be interpreted to permit the
deferral of compensation in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and any
provision that would conflict with such requirements shall not be valid or
enforceable. 

8.10          Successors and
Assigns . 

      This Plan
shall be binding upon AT T and its successors and
assigns. 

</EX-10.CC>

<EX-10.EE>
 20
 ex10ee.htm
 2005 SUPPLEMENTAL EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN

ex10ee.htm 

Exhibit
10-ee 

2005 

SUPPLEMENTAL
EMPLOYEE 

RETIREMENT
PLAN 

Adopted:  November
19, 2004 

Effective:  November
18, 2005 

Amended:  December
31, 2008 

2005
SUPPLEMENTAL EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN 

The
purpose of the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (the  SERP  or the
"Plan") is to provide Participants with retirement benefits to supplement
benefits payable pursuant to qualified group pension plans sponsored by AT T
or an affiliate of AT T.  The Plan is a successor to the AT T
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ( SRIP ) that was effective January 1, 1984
and which was amended, effective December 31, 2004, to cease accruals so that
the benefits payable under the SRIP shall be grandfathered and administered in
accordance with the provisions of the SRIP in a manner that does not invoke
Section 409A of the Code. 

2   

Definitions . 

For
purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

Administrative
Committee . "Administrative Committee" means a Committee, consisting of
the SEVP-HR and two or more other members designated by the SEVP-HR, which shall
administer the Plan. 

Agreement .  "Agreement"
means the written agreement entered into between AT T by its SEVP-HR and a
Participant prior to January 1, 2009 to carry out the Plan with respect to such
Participant.  No Agreements are necessary for Participants who become
eligible to participate in the Plan on or after January 1, 2009. 

AT T .  "AT T"
means AT T Inc. 

Beneficiary .  "Beneficiary"
shall mean any beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Participant
pursuant to the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may
hereafter be amended from time-to-time ("Rules").  If a Participant
fails to execute a Beneficiary designation form with respect to Plan benefits,
his or her Beneficiary designation form with respect to his SRIP benefits shall
apply with respect to his Plan benefits.  If a Participant fails to
execute a Beneficiary designation form with respect to Plan benefits and with
respect to SRIP benefits, the default provisions in the Rules shall
apply. 

CEO or
Chief Executive   Officer.    CEO  or
 Chief Executive Officer  shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of
AT T. 

Disabled
or Disability .   Disabled  or "Disability" means the
Participant s (i) inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by
reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be
expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period
of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically
determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in
death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve
(12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than
three (3) months under an accident or health plan covering employees of the
Participant s employer.  The Administrative Committee, in its complete
and sole discretion, determines whether a Participant is
Disabled.  The Administrative Committee may require that the
Participant submit to an examination by a competent physician or medical clinic
selected by the Administrative Committee.  On the basis of such
medical evidence, the determination of the Administrative Committee as to
whether or not a Participant is Disabled shall be conclusive. 

Earnings .  "Earnings"
means for a given calendar year the Participant's: (1) bonus earned as a short
term award during the calendar year but not exceeding 200% of the target amount
of such bonus (or such other portion of the bonus or target bonus as may be
determined by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of AT T), plus (2)
base salary before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to any deferred
compensation plan or agreement sponsored by AT T or an AT T affiliate,
including but not limited to compensation deferred in accordance with Sections
401(k), 125, or 132(f) of the Internal Revenue Code. 

Final
Average Earnings .  "Final Average Earnings" means the average
of the Participant's Monthly Earnings for the thirty-six (36) consecutive months
out of the one hundred twenty (120) months next preceding the Participant's
Termination of Employment which yields the highest average
earnings.  If the Participant has fewer than thirty-six (36) months of
employment, the average shall be taken over his or her period of
employment. 

GAAP
Rate .  For a referenced calendar year, "GAAP Rate" means the
interest rate used for valuing Plan liabilities on December 31 of the
immediately preceding calendar year and for calculating periodic pension expense
for the referenced calendar year, both for purposes of AT T's financial
statement reporting requirements. 

Immediate
Annuity Value of any AT T or affiliate Qualified
Pensions .   Immediate Annuity Value of any AT T or
affiliate Qualified Pensions  shall have the meaning as provided in Attachment
B. 

Immediate
Annuity Value of SRIP . "Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP" shall have the
meaning as provided in Attachment C. 

Immediate
Annuity Value of any other AT T or affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other
than SERP . "Immediate Annuity Value of any AT T or affiliate
Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP" shall have the meaning as provided in
Attachment D. 

Mid-Career
Hire  .    Mid-Career Hire 
means an individual whose Service Commencement Date is on or after the
individual s thirty-fifth (35 th )
birthday. 

Monthly
Earnings .  "Monthly Earnings" means one-twelfth (1/12) of
Earnings. 

Mortality
Tables .  "Mortality Tables" means the mortality tables as
defined by Code Section 417(e) for valuing minimum lump sum benefits payable
from qualified pension plans for the referenced period. 

Officer .
"Officer" shall mean an individual who is designated as an officer level
employee for compensation purposes on the records of
AT T. 

Participant .
"Participant" means: 

(a)   

Any
      person who, as of close of business on December 31, 2004, was employed by
      an AT T affiliate and was a participant in the SRIP;
  or 

(b)   

Any
      person who was a participant in the SRIP, terminated employment in 2004
      and receives Earnings in 2005; or 

(c)   

An
      Officer of AT T or an AT T affiliate who is designated by the CEO
      as eligible to participate in the
Plan. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing definition of Participant, the CEO, may, at any time and from time
to time, exclude any person or group of persons from being deemed a
 Participant  under this plan. 

An
individual s participation in SERP shall commence as of his or her SERP
Effective Date. 

Retire or
Retirement .  "Retire" or "Retirement" shall mean the
Termination of Employment of a Participant for reasons other than death, on or
after the earlier of the following dates:  (1) the date the
Participant is Retirement Eligible or (2) the date the Participant has attained
one of the following combinations of age and service at Termination of
Employment: 

Retirement
Eligible .  "Retirement Eligible" or "Retirement Eligibility"
means that a Participant has attained age 55 and has at least five (5) Years of
Service. 

Retirement
Percent .  "Retirement Percent" means the percent specified in
the Agreement with the Participant (if any) which establishes a Target
Retirement Benefit (see Section 3.1) as a percentage of Final Average Earnings.
For an individual who becomes a Participant on or after January 1, 2006,
"Retirement Percent" means 50 percent unless otherwise provided by the Human
Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of AT T. 

SERP
Effective Date .   SERP Effective Date  means the date of the
written designation of the Participant s eligibility to participate in SERP,
signed by the CEO. 

SEVP-HR .   SEVP-HR 
means AT T s Senior Executive Vice President responsible for Human Resources
matters. 

Supplemental
Retirement Income Plan or SRIP .  "Supplemental Retirement
Income Plan  or  SRIP" means the AT T Inc. Supplemental Retirement Income
Plan effective January 1, 1984. 

Service
Commencement Date .   Service Commencement Date  means the
Participant s employment commencement date with AT T or any AT T
affiliate, as such date may be adjusted from time-to-time in accordance with
rules, policies and procedures generally applied by AT T to adjust for
breaks in service or other periods of time, as reflected in AT T s or an
AT T affiliate s records, all as determined in the discretion of the
SEVP-HR. 

Service
Factor .  "Service Factor" means, unless otherwise agreed in
writing by the Participant and AT T, either (a) a deduction of 1.43 percent,
or .715 percent for Mid-Career Hires, multiplied by the number by which (i)
thirty-five (or thirty in the case of a Participant who is an Officer) exceeds
(ii) the number of Years of Service of the Participant, or (b) a credit of 0.715
percent multiplied by the number by which (i) the number of Years of Service of
the Participant exceeds (ii) thirty-five (or thirty in the case of a Participant
who is an Officer).  For purposes of the above computation, a
deduction shall result in the Service Factor being subtracted from the
Retirement Percent whereas a credit shall result in the Service Factor being
added to the Retirement Percent. 

Termination
of Employment .  "Termination of Employment" means the ceasing
of the Participant's employment from the AT T controlled group of companies
for any reason whatsoever, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.  A
Participant will be deemed to have realized a Termination of Employment at any
time that a Participant and the Administrative Committee reasonably anticipate
that the bona fide level of services the Participant will perform (whether as an
employee or an independent contractor) will be permanently reduced to a level
that is less than fifty percent (50%) of the average level of bona fide services
the Participant performed during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36)
months (or the entire period the Participant has provided services if the
Participant has been providing services to the AT T controlled group of
companies less than thirty-six (36) months). 

Year  .   A "Year" is a
period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months. 

Years of
Participation .  "Years of Participation" means the number of
each complete Years beginning with the Participant s SERP Effective Date through
each annual anniversary of such date. 

Years of
Service .  "Years of Service" means the number of each complete
Years of full-time service as an employee of AT T or an AT T affiliate
beginning with the Participant s Service Commencement Date through each annual
anniversary of such date, including service prior to the adoption of this Plan.
 Years of Service  shall also include a Participant s Years of service that are
recognized for purposes of the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Employee
Retirement Plan, but that are not otherwise included pursuant to the immediately
preceding sentence. 

3   

Plan ("SERP")
      Benefits . 

3.1 

SERP Benefit
      Formula . 

With
respect to (1) a Participant who was a participant in the SRIP prior to January
1, 1998, or (2) a Participant who, prior to January 1, 1998, was an officer of a
Pacific Telesis Group ("PTG") company and became a participant in the SRIP after
January 1, 1998, the amount of such Participant s SERP Benefit is calculated as
follows: 

Final
Average Earnings 

x Revised Retirement
Percentage                                                                                                                       

= Target
Retirement Benefit 

- 

Immediate
      Annuity Value of any AT T or affiliate Qualified
    Pensions 

- 

Immediate
      Annuity Value of any other AT T or affiliate Non- Qualified Pensions
      other than the SERP  

= Target
Benefit 

-  Age
Discount                                                                                                                      

= 

Annual
      Value of Life with 10 Year Certain SERP Benefit payable as a result of
      Termination of Employment Before SRIP
Reduction 

- Immediate Annuity Value of
SRIP                                                                                                                      

= 

Annual
      Value of Life with 10 Year Certain SERP Benefit payable as a result of
      Termination of Employment 

With
respect to all other Participants, subject to the provisions of Attachment E,
the amount of such Participant s SERP Benefit is calculated as
follows: 

Final
Average Earnings 

x Revised Retirement
Percentage                                                                                                                       

= Target
Retirement Benefit 

            -  Age
Discount 

            =
Discounted Target Benefit 

-  Immediate Annuity Value of any AT T or
affiliate Qualified Pensions  

           -  Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP

            -  Immediate Annuity
Value of any other AT T or affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other that
SERP 

= 

Annual
      Value of Life with 10 Year Certain SERP Benefit payable as a result of
      Termination of Employment 

Where in
both of the above cases the following apply: 

(a)     

Revised
      Retirement Percentage = Retirement Percent + Service
  Factor 

(b)     

For
      purposes of determining the Service Factor, the Participant's actual Years
      of Service as of the date of Termination of Employment, to the day, shall
      be used. 

(c)     

For
      purposes of determining the Final Average Earnings, the Participant's
      Earnings history as of the date of Termination of Employment shall be
      used. 

(d)     

Age
      Discount means the Participant's SERP Benefit shall be decreased by
      five-tenths of one percent (.5%) for each month that the date of the
      Participant s Termination of Employment precedes the date on which the
      Participant will attain age 60. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if at the time of Termination of Employment the Participant is,
or has been within the one year period immediately preceding the Participant's
Termination of Employment, an Officer with 30 or more Years of Service such
Participant's Age Discount shall be zero. 

Except to
true up for an actual short term award paid following Termination of Employment,
there shall be no recalculation of the value of a Participant's SERP Benefit
hereunder following a Participant's Termination of Employment. 

3.2.  
   Vesting . 

Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan, upon any Termination of Employment of the
Participant for a reason other than death or Disability, AT T shall have no
obligation to the Participant under this Plan if the Participant has less than
five (5) Years of Service or, for Participants who are informed, in writing, of
their SERP eligibility on or after September 28, 2006, less than four (4) Years
of Participation, at the time of Termination of Employment. 

4   

Election and Form of
      Distribution of SERP
Benefits.  

The
normal form of a Participant's benefits hereunder shall be a Life with 10-Year
Certain Benefit as described in Section  4.2 (a). 

4.2  

Election
      Alternatives.  

Notwithstanding
the normal form for distribution of a Participant s SERP Benefits, a Participant
may elect one of the following Benefit Payout Alternatives: 

(a)  

Life with a 10-Year
      Certain Benefit .  An annuity payable during the longer of
      (i) the life of the Participant or (ii) the 10-year period commencing on
      the Participant s Termination of Employment and ending on the day next
      preceding the tenth anniversary of such date (the "Life With 10-Year
      Certain Benefit").  If a Participant who is receiving a Life
      with 10-Year Certain Benefit dies prior to the expiration of the 10-year
      period described in this Section  4.2 (a), the Participant's Beneficiary
      shall be entitled to receive the remaining Life With 10-Year Certain
      Benefit installments which would have been paid to the Participant had the
      Participant survived for the entire such 10-year
  period. 

(b)  

Joint and 100%
      Survivor Benefit .  A joint and one hundred percent (100%)
      survivor annuity payable for life to the Participant and at his or her
      death to his or her Beneficiary, in an amount equal to one hundred percent
      (100%) of the amount payable during the Participant's life, for life (the
      "Joint and 100% Survivor Benefit"). 

(c)  

Joint and 50% Survivor
      Benefit .  A joint and fifty percent (50%) survivor
      annuity payable for life to the Participant and at his or her death to his
      or her Beneficiary, in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the
      amount payable during the Participant's life, for life (the "Joint and 50%
      Survivor Benefit"). 

(d)  

Lump Sum
      Benefit .  A lump sum benefit, which shall apply only if
      the Participant has attained the age of fifty-five (55) years as of his or
      her Termination of Employment.  If a Participant elects a lump
      sum benefit but realizes a Termination of Employment prior to attaining
      age fifty-five (55), the Participant s SERP Benefit shall be paid as
      provided in Section  4.2 (a),  4.2 (b) or  4.2 (c), as elected or deemed elected
      by the Participant. 

The
Benefit Payout Alternatives described in Section  4.2 (b),  4.2 (c) and  4.2 (d) shall be the actuarially determined
equivalent (using the same reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods for
valuing each Benefit Payout Alternative as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or
her complete and sole discretion) of the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit that
is converted by such election.  The amount of a Participant's lump sum
benefit shall be calculated as of the Participant's Termination of Employment by
applying the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in effect for the
calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the Participant s
Termination of Employment, but using the Participant s age, Years of Service and
other factors as of the Participant s Termination of Employment. 

4.3 

Distribution
      Election . 

(a)  

Individual Who Is A
      Participant On or Before December 31, 2008 .  An
      individual who was a Participant on or before December 31, 2008 may make
      an irrevocable election of a Benefit Payout Alternative before the earlier
      of December 31 of the year immediately preceding his or her Termination of
      Employment or December 31, 2008 by delivery of such election, in writing,
      telecopy, email or in another electronic format, pursuant to or as
      instructed by the SEVP-HR (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her sole
      and absolute discretion). 

(b)  

Individual Who Becomes
      A Participant After December 31, 2008 .  An individual who
      becomes a Participant after December 31, 2008 may make an irrevocable
      election of a Benefit Payout Alternative no later than the thirtieth
      (30 th )
      day immediately following the Participant s SERP Effective Date by
      delivery of such election in writing, telecopy, email or in another
      electronic format, pursuant to or as instructed by the SEVP-HR (as
      determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her sole and absolute
      discretion). 

(c)  

Failure to Timely Make
      a Distribution Election .  If a Participant fails to make
      a timely election of a Benefit Payout Alternative as provided in Section
      4.3(a) or 4.3(b), such Participant shall be deemed to have elected and
      such Participant's form of benefit shall be the Life With 10-Year Certain
      Benefit described in Section  4.2 (a). 

(d)  

Death of or Divorce
      from Annuitant During Participant s
      Lifetime .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
      Plan to the contrary, in the event of the death of a designated annuitant
      during the life of the Participant, the Participant's election to have a
      Benefit Payout Alternative described in Section  4.2 (b) or  4.2 (c) shall, without any action by
      the Participant, be revoked, and the Participant s benefit, or remaining
      benefit, under the Plan, as the case may be, shall be paid as provided in
      Section  4.2 (a).  Any
      conversion of benefit from one form to another pursuant to the provisions
      of this paragraph shall use the same reasonable actuarial assumptions and
      methods for valuing each annuity form of benefit before and after the
      death of the designated annuitant and shall be subject to actuarial
      adjustment (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and sole
      discretion) such that the Participant's new benefit is the actuarial
      equivalent of the Participant's remaining prior form of
      benefit.  Payments pursuant to Participant's new form of benefit
      shall be effective commencing with the first monthly payment for the month
      following the death of the
annuitant. 

Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in the event of the divorce or
legal separation of the Participant, the Participant s election to have a
Benefit Payout Alternative described in Section 4.2(b) or 4.2(c), with a
survivor annuity for the benefit of the Participant's former spouse as
Beneficiary, shall, without any action by the Participant, be revoked, and the
Participant's benefit, or remaining benefit, under the Plan, as the case may be,
shall be paid as provided in Section 4.2(a) (using the same reasonable actuarial
assumptions and methods for valuing each annuity form of benefit before and
after the divorce or legal separation  and shall be subject to
actuarial adjustment (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and
sole discretion).  In such event, the 10-Year period as described in
Section 4.2(a) shall be the same 10-year period as if such form of benefit was
the form of benefit originally selected and the expiration date of such period
shall not be extended beyond its original expiration date.  Payments
pursuant to Participant s new form of benefit shall be effective commencing with
the first monthly payment following notice from the Participant to the SEVP-HR
after the divorce (or legal separation) becomes final. 

(e)  

Special Provisions for
      Lump Sum Benefit Election .  A Participant who elects a
      lump sum benefit under Section  4.2 (d) must, contemporaneous with such
      Lump Sum Benefit election, elect a specific number of year(s), not to
      exceed twenty (20) years, following his or her Termination of Employment
      upon which the lump sum benefit (including any interest accrued thereon)
      shall be distributed;  provided,   however , 

(i)    

the Participant may
      not receive more than thirty percent (30%) of his or her lump sum benefit
      (excluding any interest thereon) until the third (3  rd  ) anniversary of his
      or her Termination of Employment;   provided ,  however , if the
      Participant is age sixty (60) or older as of his or her Termination of
      Employment, the Participant, if elected in his or her timely filed
      election of a Benefit Payout Alternative, may receive one hundred percent
      (100%) of his or her lump sum benefit upon the day that is six (6) months
      following his or her Termination of Employment if he or she agrees, in
      writing, substantially in the form provided in Attachment A, not to
      compete with an Employer Business within the meaning of Section 8.2 for a
      period of three (3) years from such Participant s Termination of
      Employment and further agrees that if he or she fails to abide by such
      agreement, the non-compete agreement is challenged, or the non-compete
      agreement is unenforceable, he or she shall forfeit all benefits hereunder
      and repay the lump sum benefit to AT 
      and  

(ii)   

prior
      to distribution of the Participant s lump sum benefit, interest on such
      lump sum benefit shall accrue and shall be added to the Participant s lump
      sum benefit or distributed monthly, as elected by the Participant in his
      or her  election of a
      Benefit Payout Alternative . 

A
Participant s lump sum benefit payment schedule must comply with the rules for
payment schedules as adopted by the SEVP-HR (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his
or her sole and absolute discretion), which, for example, may require payment of
principal to be made no more frequently than once per calendar
year. 

If the
payment schedule elected by a Participant does not comply with the rules for
payment schedules, (i) thirty percent (30%) of such Participant s lump sum
benefit shall be paid to the Participant upon the date that is six (6) months
following the Participant s Termination of Employment,   and (ii) the
remaining seventy percent (70%) shall be paid to the Participant on the third
(3 rd )
anniversary of such Participant s Termination of Employment. 

(f)  

Lump Sum Benefit
      Account Balance .  From and after a Participant s
      Termination of Employment, the SEVP-HR shall maintain records of a lump
      sum benefit account balance for each Participant who elected a lump sum
      benefit.  During such period of time that all or any portion of
      a Participant s lump sum benefit is not paid, interest shall be credited
      using the same methodology used by AT T for financial accounting
      purposes using the GAAP Rate that was used to calculate such Participant s
      lump sum benefit.  Payments of principal and interest shall be
      deducted from the lump sum benefit account
  balance. 

A
Participant whose employment has not terminated may change a prior distribution
election at any time on or before December 31, 2008, provided, however, if the
Participant s employment terminates for any reason in the calendar year in which
the new distribution election is filed, such new election shall be null and
void.  In the event the Participant s new election is null and void,
the Participant s prior election, if any, shall apply.  If there is no
prior election, the Plan s default distribution provisions shall
apply. 

5   

Death or Disability
      Benefits .                                                                                                 

5.1  

Death Following
      Termination of Employment . 

If a
Participant who has commenced payment of his or her SERP benefit hereunder dies,
his or her Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive the remaining SERP benefit
in accordance with the Benefit Payout Alternative elected or deemed elected by
the Participant. 

5.2  

Death Prior to
      Termination of Employment . 

If a
Participant dies prior to his or her Termination of Employment, a pre-retirement
death benefit will be calculated and paid as though the Participant had
Retired  (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service or the 4
Years of Participation requirements) on the day prior to the date of
death.  The pre-retirement death benefit shall be paid at such time
and in such form as timely elected or deemed elected by the Participant;
provided, if the Participant elected or is deemed to have elected any form of an
annuity, such pre-retirement death benefit shall be paid as a Beneficiary Life
Annuity (as such term is hereinafter described) based on the life expectancy of
the Beneficiary, and, if the Participant elected or is deemed to have elected a
Life with a 10-Year Certain Benefit, such Beneficiary Life Annuity shall
continue for the longer of (i) the Beneficiary s life, or (ii) the 10 year
period commencing on the Participant s death.  If paid as a
Beneficiary Life Annuity, such benefit shall be the actuarially determined
equivalent using the same reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods (as
determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and sole discretion) of the
Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit that would have been paid to the Participant
had he or she Retired on the day immediately prior to his or her
death.  If the Participant had timely elected and qualified to receive
a Lump Sum Benefit, it shall be calculated in the same manner as provided in
Section 4.2 as if the Participant were alive; e.g., calculated as of the
Participant's death applying the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in
effect for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the
Participant s death, but using the Participant s age, Years of Service and other
factors as of the Participant s date of death. 

Upon a
Participant's Termination of Employment and contemporaneous qualification for
receipt of long term disability benefits under an AT T or AT T affiliate
sponsored long term disability benefit plan in which the Participant
participates prior to being Retirement Eligible (without regard to the 5 Years
of Service or 4 Years of Participation requirements), the Participant will
continue to accrue Years of Service during such disability until the earliest of
his or her: 

(a)  

Recovery
      from Disability, 

(b)  

Retirement
      (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service or 4 Years of
      Participation requirements), or 

(c)  

Death. 

Upon the
occurrence of either (a) Participant's recovery from Disability prior to his or
her Retirement Eligibility if Participant does not return to employment, or (b)
Participant's Retirement (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service or
4 Years of Participation requirements), the Participant shall be entitled to
receive a SERP Benefit as if he or she realized a Termination of Employment as
of the date of such occurrence. 

For
purposes of calculating the foregoing benefit, the Participant's Final Average
Earnings shall be determined using his or her Earnings history as of the date of
his or her Disability. 

If a
Participant who continues to have a Disability dies prior to his or her
Retirement Eligibility (without regard to the 5 Years of Service or 4 Years of
Participation requirements), the Participant will be treated in the same manner
as if he or she had died while in employment (See Section  5.2 ). 

6.                  
   Payment of
Benefits . 

6.1  

Commencement of
      Payments . 

(a) 

Except
      as provided in Section 5.3, benefit payments shall commence pursuant to
      the Benefit Payout Alternative elected by the Participant in his or her
      Agreement on the date that is six (6) months following his or her
      Termination of Employment; provided, however, if the Participant dies
      after Termination of Employment and prior to the lapse of such six (6)
      month period, benefit payments shall commence upon the Participant s
      death.  If a Participant elected (or is deemed to have elected)
      an annuity form of benefit under Section 4.2(a), 4.2(b) or 4.2(c), the
      aggregate monthly amount that would be paid between the Participant s
      Termination of Employment through the date that benefit payments actually
      commence, shall be paid in a lump sum on the date that benefit payments
      actually commence hereunder.  In addition, during the period of
      time between a Participant s Termination of Employment and the date that
      annuity payments hereunder actually commence, interest shall be credited
      on the withheld annuity amounts for such period of time that each annuity
      payment is withheld.  The credited interest shall be paid in a
      lump sum on the date that payments hereunder actually
      commence.  Interest shall be credited using the GAAP Rate in
      effect for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of
      the Participant s Termination of
Employment. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding
      the designation of a specific date for commencement of payment of a
      distribution hereunder, commencement of payments under this Plan may be
      delayed for administrative reasons in the discretion of the SEVP-HR, but
      shall begin not later than sixty (60) days following the date upon which
      payment(s) would otherwise commence under this Plan. A Participant shall
      not have the right to designate or participate in the decision as to the
      taxable year of benefit
commencement. 

6.2  

Withholding;
      Unemployment Taxes . 

(a) 

A
      payment may be made from the Plan to reflect the payment of state, local,
      or foreign tax obligations arising from participation in the Plan that
      apply to an amount deferred under the Plan before the amount is paid or
      made available to a Participant (the  State, Local, or Foreign Tax
      Amount ).  Such payment may not exceed the amount of such taxes
      due as a result of participation in the Plan.  Such payment may
      be made by distributions to the Participant in the form of withholding
      pursuant to provisions of applicable state, local, or foreign law or by
      distribution directly to the Participant.  Additionally, a
      payment may be made from the Plan to pay the income tax at source on wages
      imposed under Code Section 3401 as a result of the payment of the State,
      Local, or Foreign Tax Amount and to pay the additional income tax at
      source on wages attributable to such additional Code Section 3401 wages
      and taxes.  However, the total payment under this Section  6.2 (a) shall not exceed the aggregate
      of the State, Local, or Foreign Tax Amount and the income tax withholding
      related to such State, Local, or Foreign Tax
  Amount. 

(b) 

A
      payment may be made from the Plan to pay the Federal Insurance
      Contributions Act tax imposed by Code Sections 3101, 3121(a), and
      3121(v)(2) on compensation deferred under the Plan (the  FICA
      Amount ).  Additionally, a payment may be made from the Plan to
      pay the income tax at source on wages imposed under Code Section 3401 or
      the corresponding withholding provisions of applicable state, local or
      foreign tax laws as a result of the payment of the FICA Amount and to pay
      the additional income tax at source on wages attributable to the
      pyramiding section 3401 wages and taxes.  However, the total
      payment under this Section  6.2 (b)
      shall not exceed the aggregate of the FICA Amount and the income tax
      withholding related to such FICA
Amount. 

6.3 

Recipients of
      Payments; Designation of
Beneficiary . 

All
payments to be made under the Plan shall be made to the Participant during his
or her lifetime, provided that if the Participant dies prior to the completion
of such payments, then all subsequent payments under the Plan shall be made to
the Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries. 

In the
event of the death of a Participant, distributions/benefits under this Plan
shall pass to the Beneficiary (ies) designated by the Participant in accordance
with this Plan and the Rules. 

No
benefits shall be paid hereunder to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary
except as specifically provided herein. 

Notwithstanding
any election made by the Participant, the SEVP-HR in his or her sole discretion
may pay any benefit in the form of a lump sum payment if (A) the lump sum
equivalent amount is or would be less than the applicable dollar amount under
Code Section 402(g)(1)(B) when payment of such benefit would otherwise commence,
and (B) the payment of the lump sum equivalent amount results in the termination
and liquidation of the entirety of the Participant s interest under the Plan and
under any other plan that is considered a single nonqualified deferred
compensation plan under Treasury Regulations Section
1.409A-1(c)(2). 

7.                  
   Conditions Related to
Benefits . 

7.1 

Administration of
      Plan . 

The
Administrative Committee and the SEVP-HR with respect to specific functions
identified in the Plan, shall be the sole administrators of the Plan and will,
in their discretion, administer, interpret, construe and apply the Plan in
accordance with its terms.  The Administrative Committee or the
SEVP-HR shall further establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as
each may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the
Plan.  All decisions of the Administrative Committee or the SEVP-HR
shall be final and binding unless the Board of Directors should determine
otherwise. 

7.2   

No Right to AT T
      Assets . 

Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall acquire by reason of the Plan any right
in or title to any assets, funds or property of any AT T company whatsoever
including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any specific funds
or assets which AT T, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation
of a liability hereunder, nor in or to any policy or policies of insurance on
the life of a Participant owned by AT T.  No trust shall be
created in connection with or by the execution or adoption of this Plan or any
Agreement, and any benefits which become payable hereunder shall be paid from
the general assets of AT T.  A Participant shall have only a
contractual right to the amounts, if any, payable hereunder unsecured by any
asset of AT T. 

AT T
shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits provided under the
Plan.  At its discretion, AT T may establish one or more trusts,
for the purpose of providing for the payment of such benefits.  Such
trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to
the claims of AT T's creditors.  To the extent any benefits
provided under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, AT T shall
have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid,
such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by
AT T. 

7.4 

No Employment
      Rights . 

Nothing
herein shall constitute a contract of continuing employment or in any manner
obligate any AT T company to continue the service of a Participant, or
obligate a Participant to continue in the service of any AT T company and
nothing herein shall be construed as fixing or regulating the compensation paid
to a Participant. 

7.5     

Modification or
      Termination of Plan . 

This Plan
may be modified or terminated at any time in accordance with the provisions of
AT T's Schedule of Authorizations.  A modification may affect
present and future Participants.   AT T also reserves the
sole right to terminate at any time any or all Agreements.  In the
event of termination of the Plan or of a Participant's Agreement, a Participant
shall be entitled to benefits hereunder, if prior to the date of termination of
the Plan or of his or her Agreement, such Participant has attained 5 Years of
Service and, if applicable, 4 Years of Participation, in which case, regardless
of the termination of the Plan/Participant's Agreement, such Participant shall
be entitled to benefits at such time as provided in and as otherwise in
accordance with the Plan and his or her Agreement, provided, however, a
Participant's benefit shall be computed as if the Participant had realized a
Termination of Employment as of the date of termination of the Plan or of his or
her Agreement; provided further, however, a Participant's service subsequent to
Plan/Agreement termination shall be recognized for purposes of reducing or
eliminating the Age discount provided for by Section  3.1 (d).  No amendment, including
an amendment to this Section  7.5 , shall
be effective, without the written consent of a Participant, to alter, to the
detriment of such Participant, the benefits described in this Plan as applicable
to such Participant as of the effective date of such amendment.  For
purposes of this Section  7.5 , an
alteration to the detriment of a Participant shall mean a reduction in the
amount payable hereunder to a Participant to which such Participant would be
entitled if such Participant realized a Termination of Employment at such time,
or any change in the form of benefit payable hereunder to a Participant to which
such Participant would be entitled if such Participant realized a Termination of
Employment at such time.  Any amendment which reduces a Participant's
benefit hereunder to adjust for a change in his or her pension benefit resulting
from an amendment to any company-sponsored defined benefit pension plan which
changes the pension benefits payable to all employees, shall not require the
Participant's consent.  Written notice of any amendment shall be given
to each Participant. 

If at the
time payments or installments of payments are to be made hereunder, a
Participant or his or her Beneficiary or both are indebted to AT T or any
AT T affiliate as a result of debt incurred in the ordinary course of the
employment relationship between the Participant and the AT T company, then,
annually, up to $5,000 of the payments remaining to be made to the Participant
or his or her Beneficiary or both, may, at the discretion of the SEVP-HR, be
reduced by the amount of such indebtedness; provided, however, that the
reduction must be made at the same time and in the same amount as the debt
otherwise would have been due and collected from the Participant or his or her
Beneficiary; provided, further, however, that an election by the Board of
Directors not to reduce any such payment or payments shall not constitute a
waiver of such AT T company's claim for such indebtedness. 

In the
event of a change in the employment status of a Participant to a status in which
he is no longer an Participant, the Participant shall immediately cease to be
eligible for any benefits under this Plan except such benefits as had previously
vested.  Only Participant's Years of Service and Earnings history
prior to the change in his employment status shall be taken into account for
purposes of determining Participant's vested benefits hereunder. 

8.                  
   Miscellaneous . 

Neither a
Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign,
transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer,
hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt of the amounts, if any,
payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are,
expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part
of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or
sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate
maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by
operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's
bankruptcy or insolvency. 

Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan, all benefits provided under the Plan with
respect to a Participant shall be forfeited and canceled in their entirety if
the Participant, without the consent of AT T and while employed by AT T
or any subsidiary thereof or within three (3) years after termination of such
employment, engages in competition with AT T or any subsidiary thereof or
with any business with which AT T or a subsidiary or affiliated company has
a substantial interest (collectively referred to herein as "Employer business")
and fails to cease and desist from engaging in said competitive activity within
120 days following receipt of written notice from AT T to Participant
demanding that Participant cease and desist from engaging in said competitive
activity.  For purposes of this Plan, engaging in competition with any
Employer business shall mean engaging by the Participant in any business or
activity in the same geographical market where the same or substantially similar
business or activity is being carried on as an Employer
business.  Such term shall not include owning a nonsubstantial
publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that competes with an
Employer business. However, engaging in competition with an Employer business
shall include representing or providing consulting services to, or being an
employee of, any person or entity that is engaged in competition with any
Employer business or that takes a position adverse to any Employer
business.  Accordingly, benefits shall not be provided under this Plan
if, within the time period and without the written consent specified,
Participant either engages directly in competitive activity or in any capacity
in any location becomes employed by, associated with, or renders service to any
company, or parent or affiliate thereof, or any subsidiary of any of them, if
any of them is engaged in competition with an Employer business, regardless of
the position or duties the Participant takes and regardless of whether or not
the employing company, or the company that Participant becomes associated with
or renders service to, is itself engaged in direct competition with an Employer
business. 

Any
notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrative Committee or the
SEVP-HR under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or
sent by certified mail, to the principal office of AT T, directed to the
attention of the SEVP-HR.  Any notice required or permitted to be
given to a Participant shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or
sent by certified mail, to Participant at Participant's last known mailing
address as reflected on the records of his or her employing company or the
company from which the Participant incurred a Termination of Employment, as
applicable.  Notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery
or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the
receipt for certification. 

In the
event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the
same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other
provision of this plan. 

This Plan
shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
Texas to the extent not preempted by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder ("ERISA"). 

Attachment A 

LUMP SUM DISTRIBUTION
AGREEMENT  

This Lump
Sum Distribution Agreement is made as of the ____ day of ______________, ____ by
and between  AT T  Inc.
(  AT T   or the
 Company ) and _______________( Participant ).  Unless otherwise
indicated herein, capitalized words used herein shall have the same meaning
ascribed to such words in the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (the
 Plan  or  SERP ). 

WHEREAS,
Participant is a Participant in the Plan, which is sponsored by the
Company; 

WHEREAS,
pursuant to the Plan, Participant executed an Agreement, governing Participant s
benefits in the Plan; 

WHEREAS,
Participant s Agreement provides for the distribution of his benefits in the
form of a lump sum, payable one hundred percent (100%) upon the six (6) month
anniversary of his Termination of Employment provided that Participant is age
sixty (60) or older as of the date of his Termination of Employment and
Participant agrees not to compete with an Employer Business; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, the parties hereto, for good and valuable consideration, the
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, hereby agree as
follows: 

1.   

If
      Participant is age sixty (60) or over as of the date of his Termination of
      Employment, Company shall pay to 

Participant his   benefits under the Plan
in the form of a lump sum distribution, one hundred percent (100%) of which
shall be paid upon the six (6) month anniversary of Participant s Termination of
Employment. 

2.   

In
      exchange for the right to receive the payment described in Paragraph 1,
      above, Participant acknowledges and agrees that he shall not, without the
      written consent of Company, within three (3) years after Termination of
      Employment, engage in competition with AT T or with any business with
      which AT T or a subsidiary of AT T or an affiliated company has a
      substantial interest (collectively referred to herein as "Employer
      business").  For purposes of this Lump Sum Distribution
      Agreement, engaging in competition with any Employer business shall mean
      Participant s engaging in any business or activity in the same
      geographical market where the same or substantially similar business or
      activity is being carried on as an Employer business. Such term shall not
      include owning a nonsubstantial publicly traded interest as a shareholder
      in a business that competes with an Employer business.  However,
      it is hereby specifically agreed that engaging in competition with an
      Employer business shall include representing or providing consulting
      services to, or being an employee of, any person or entity that is engaged
      in competition with any Employer business or that takes a position adverse
      to any Employer business.  Participant hereby specifically
      agrees not to engage in any such conduct.  Participant also
      specifically agrees that a breach of this provision would result if,
      within the time period and without the written consent specified,
      Participant either engages directly in competitive activity or in any
      capacity in any location becomes employed by, associated with, or renders
      service to any company, or parent or affiliate thereof, or any subsidiary
      of any of them, if any of them is engaged in competition with an Employer
      business, regardless of the position or duties Participant   takes and
      regardless of whether or not the employing company, or the company
      that 

Participant
becomes associated with or renders service to, is itself engaged in direct
competition with an Employer business. 

3.   

Participant
      acknowledges and agrees that he shall promptly return to the Company and
      forfeit all consideration previously received pursuant to this Lump Sum
      Distribution Agreement, specifically the payment referred to in Paragraph
      1, if he engages in competition with an Employer business in
      violation of the provisions of Paragraph
2. 

4.   

Participant
      may submit a description of any proposed activity in writing to  AT T  and  AT T  shall
      advise 

Participant   in writing within
fifteen (15) business days whether such proposed activity would constitute
engaging in competition with an Employer business, within the meaning of this
Lump Sum Distribution Agreement. 

5.   

It
      is hereby specifically agreed that the terms of this Lump Sum Distribution
      Agreement shall be kept strictly confidential and that neither party
      shall, except as necessary for performance of the terms hereof or as
      specifically required by law, disclose the existence of this Lump Sum
      Distribution Agreement or any of its terms to third persons without the
      express consent of the other party. 

6.   

Participant   agrees that for any
      breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of this Lump Sum
      Distribution Agreement by Participant, the Company shall have no adequate
      legal remedy, and in addition to any other remedies available, including
      the repayment and forfeiture remedies described in Paragraph 3, a
      restraining order and/or an injunction may be issued against
      Participant   to prevent or
      restrain any such breach. 

7.   

Any
      notice required hereunder to be given by either party will be in writing
      and will be deemed effectively given upon personal delivery to the party
      to be notified, or five (5) days after deposit with the United States Post
      Office by certified mail, postage prepaid, to the other party at the
      address set forth below, or to such other address as either party may from
      time to time designate by ten (10) days advance written notice pursuant to
      this Paragraph. 

8.   

In
      the event any provision of this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement is held
      invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same shall not affect in any respect
      whatsoever the validity of any other provision of this Lump Sum
      Distribution Agreement, except that should any part of the non-compete
      provisions of Paragraph 2 of this Agreement be held invalid, void, or
      unenforceable as applicable to and as asserted by Participant, this Lump
      Sum Distribution Agreement, at the Company's option, may be declared by
      the Company null and void.  If this Lump Sum Distribution
      Agreement is declared null and void by Company pursuant to the provisions
      of this Paragraph, Participant shall return to Company all consideration
      previously received pursuant to this Lump Sum Distribution
      Agreement. 

AT T
Inc. 

By:
Senior Executive Vice 

          President-Human Resources 

          175 E. Houston Street 

          San Antonio,
Texas 78205 

Date                                                                           Date 

Attachment B 

Immediate
Annuity Value of any AT T or affiliate Qualified Pensions  shall
mean: 

The
annual amount of annuity payments that would be paid out of the qualified
defined benefit pension plan sponsored by AT T or an AT T affiliate in
which the Participant participates on a single life, level payment annuity basis
assuming payment of such qualified defined benefit pension plan benefit
commenced immediately upon the Participant s Termination of Employment,
notwithstanding the form of payment of such qualified defined benefit pension
plan s benefit actually made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor
annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the
payment of such qualified defined benefit pension plan benefit. 

Attachment C 

Immediate
Annuity Value of SRIP . "Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP" shall
mean 

An
objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount
of a level payment, single life with 10 year certain annuity benefit that would
be paid to the Participant pursuant to the SRIP as it exists on December 31,
2008 assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of
benefit payments under the SRIP on December 31, 2008, applying the Participant s
Final Average Earnings and Years of Service (both as defined in the SRIP) as of
December 31, 2004 and the Participant s age as of December 31, 2008,
notwithstanding the form of payment of the SRIP benefit that would actually be
made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and
notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such SRIP
benefit. 

Attachment D 

Attachment D to the AT T
2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan  

Immediate
Annuity Value of any AT T or AT T affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other
than SERP .  "Immediate Annuity Value of any AT T or
AT T affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP" shall mean with
respect to a Participant, any one or more of the following, as
applicable: 

1.           For
a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the
AT T Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 1  ( PBMU No. 1 ), the
AT T Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 2 ( PBMU No. 2 ), the AT T Inc.
Management Mid-Career Hire Plan (the  Mid-Career Plan ), the Cingular Wireless
SBC Executive Transition Pension Make Up Plan (the  Cingular Plan ) and/or the
Pacific Telesis Group Executive Supplemental Cash Balance Pension Plan ( PTG
Plan ) and is a Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2008: 

An
objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount
of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the
Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the
Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, as applicable, as they exist on December 31,
2008 assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of
benefit payments under the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the
Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, as applicable, on December 31, 2008,
notwithstanding the form of payment of the benefit that would actually be made
to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career
Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, (i.e., 10-year certain annuity,
lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment
of such PBMU No. 1, PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or
PTG Plan benefit. 

2.           For
a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the PBMU
No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG
Plan and has a SERP Effective Date after December 31, 2008: 

An
objectively determined amount as of the Participant s SERP Effective Date equal
to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would
be paid to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the
Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, as applicable, as they
exist on the Participant s SERP Effective Date assuming the Participant became
eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the PBMU No. 1, the
PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, on his
or her SERP Effective Date, notwithstanding the form of payment of the benefit
that would actually be made to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the
PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan (i.e.,
10-year certain annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual
commencement date of the payment of such PBMU No. 1, PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career
Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or PTG Plan benefit. 

3.           For
a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the
BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  BellSouth
Plan ) and is a Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2008: 

An
objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount
of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the
Participant pursuant to the BellSouth Plan as it exists on December 31, 2008
assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit
payments under the BellSouth Plan on December 31, 2008, but applying the
Participant s age and years of service as if the Participant remained employed
through the fourth anniversary of his or her SERP Effective Date and the
Participant s Included Earnings (as defined in the BellSouth Plan) as of
December 31, 2008, notwithstanding the form of payment of the BellSouth Plan s
benefit that would actually be made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor
annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the
payment of such BellSouth Plan benefit. 

4.           For
a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the
BellSouth Plan and has a SERP Effective Date after December 31,
2008: 

An
objectively determined amount as of the Participant s SERP Effective Date equal
to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would
be paid to the Participant pursuant to the BellSouth Plan as it exists on the
Participant s SERP Effective Date assuming the Participant became eligible to
receive a distribution of benefit payments under the BellSouth Plan on his or
her SERP Effective Date (applying the Participant s age, years of service and
Included Earnings (as defined in the BellSouth Plan) as of the Participant s
SERP Effective Date), notwithstanding the form of payment of the BellSouth
Plan s benefit that would actually be made to the Participant (i.e., joint and
survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement
date of the payment of such BellSouth Plan benefit. 

5.           For
a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the
AT T Corp. Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan ( LTDSPP ) and
is entitled to a nonqualified defined benefit from the LTDSPP, the AT T
Corp. Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, ( Excess Plan ), and/or the AT T
Corp. Non-Qualified Pension Plan ( NQPP ) and is a Participant in the Plan on
December 31, 2008 (the Participant s election as to the time and form of
benefits under these plans is identical to such election under this
Plan): 

The
benefit payments paid pursuant to the LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit
only), Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, as applicable, commencing at the actual
time and pursuant to the actual form such benefit payments are made from the
LTDSPP, Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, as applicable. 

6.           For
a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the LTDSPP
and is entitled to a nonqualified defined benefit from the LTDSPP, the Excess
Plan, and/or the NQPP and has a SERP Effective Date after December 31,
2008: 

An
objectively determined amount as of the Participant s SERP Effective Date equal
to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would
be paid to the Participant pursuant to the LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit
only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, as applicable, as they exist on the
Participant s SERP Effective Date assuming the Participant became eligible to
receive a distribution of benefit payments under the AT T Corp. LTDSPP
(nonqualified defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, on his or
her SERP Effective Date, notwithstanding the form of payment of the benefit that
would actually be made to the Participant pursuant to the LTDSPP (nonqualified
defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP (i.e., 10-year certain
annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the
payment of such the AT T Corp. LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only),
the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP benefit. 

Attachment E 

Attachment
E applies with respect to any Participant who: 

Is
      a participant in the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive
      Retirement Plan; and 

Realizes
      a Termination of Employment on or after January 1,
  2009. 

Upon
Termination of Employment, such Participant s Plan benefit shall equal the
greater of his or her benefit determined in accordance with Section 3 of the
Plan or this Attachment E. 

A.            Definitions .  Solely
for purposes of this Attachment E, the following words shall have the meanings
as provided in this Attachment E.  Any other capitalized word, not
otherwise defined in this Attachment E, shall have the meaning as provided in
Section 2 of the Plan. 

1. 

The
      term " Annual
      Bonus Award " shall mean the bonus amount paid annually to an
      Attachment E Participant that is included in the calculation of pension
      benefits under the Pension Plan. 

2. 

The
      term   Attachment
      E Participant   shall mean any Participant to whom Attachment E
      applies as described in the first paragraph of this Attachment
      E. 

3. 

The
      terms " BellSouth
      Corporation " and " Company " shall
      mean BellSouth Corporation, a Georgia corporation, or its
      successors. 

4. 

The
      term " Included
      Earnings " shall mean the 12 month average of the sum of (1) the
      last sixty (60) months of base pay, plus (2) the Annual Bonus Awards
      payable during or after that sixty (60) month period; provided, however,
      Included Earnings shall not include base pay or Annual Bonus Awards earned
      after March 1, 2011.  The amounts of base pay and other payments
      used to determine Included Earnings as described above include all amounts
      during the specified period including those amounts previously deferred
      pursuant to other plans.  If an Attachment E Participant
      terminates employment while eligible for a benefit under this Attachment E
      and thereafter receives Included Earnings, these additional Included
      Earnings shall be deemed to have been paid as of the date of the
      Attachment E Participant s Termination of Employment, and the amount of
      benefit payable under this Attachment E shall be corrected
      accordingly. 

5. 

The
      term   Merger   shall
      mean the merger, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of
      March 4, 2006 (the  Merger Agreement ), by and among BellSouth, AT T
      Inc. ( AT T ), and ABC Consolidation Corp., a Georgia corporation and
      wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T ( Merger Sub ), pursuant to which, at
      the  Effective Time  (as defined in the Merger Agreement), BellSouth was
      merged with and into the Merger
Sub. 

6. 

The
      term " Pension
      Plan " shall mean the BellSouth Personal Retirement Account Pension
      Plan as in effect on the date of the
Merger. 

7. 

The
      term " Standard
      Annual Bonus " shall mean the Attachment E Participant s Target
      Award under the AT T 2006 Incentive Plan or the AT T Short Term
      Incentive Plan and for periods of time prior to the Attachment E
      Participant s participation in the AT T 2006 Incentive Plan or the
      AT T Short Term Incentive Plan, Standard Annual Bonus shall mean an
      amount determined by applying a target percentage of an Attachment E
      Participant s base pay rate as determined by the annual compensation plan
      and the Attachment E Participant s job or pay
  grade. 

8. 

The
      term " Vesting
      Service Credit ", except as expressly limited or otherwise provided
      in this Attachment E or under an individual Attachment E Participant s
      employment-related agreement with the Company, shall have the same meaning
      as is attributed to such term under the Pension Plan and shall be
      interpreted in the same manner as that term is interpreted for purposes of
      the Pension Plan; provided, however, Vesting Service Credit shall not
      include any period of time on or after March 1,
  2011. 

B.            Benefit
Amount .  An Attachment E Participant s benefit under this
Attachment E shall be determined as follows: 

The
aggregate annualized benefit of each Attachment E Participant shall be
determined by adding the sum of two percent (2%) of Included Earnings for each
year of the Attachment E Participant's Vesting Service Credit for the first
twenty years, plus one and one-half percent (1.5%) of Included Earnings for each
year of the Attachment E Participant's Vesting Service Credit for the next ten
years, plus one percent (1%) of Included Earnings for each year of the
Attachment E Participant's Vesting Service Credit for each additional year up to
the month in which the Attachment E Participant retires  less  (1) 100% of the
Primary Social Security benefit payable at age 65, (2) 100% of the retirement
benefit (unreduced for survivor annuity) payable from the Pension Plan (as
defined below), and (3) 100% of the benefit payable from the BellSouth
Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (as defined
below). 

a.           The
benefit reduction to be applied for the benefit payable from the Pension Plan
shall be the amount of such benefit that would be payable on the date that
benefits are eligible to be paid (or become payable) under the Plan, or, if
earlier, March 1, 2011 (regardless of the Attachment E Participant s actual
pension commencement date under the Pension Plan) and determined assuming that
the Attachment E Participant elected a single life annuity (regardless of the
actual form of benefit elected under the Pension Plan). 

The
benefit reduction to be applied for the benefit payable from the BellSouth
Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan shall be an objectively
determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount of a level
payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Attachment E
Participant pursuant to the BellSouth Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as
it exists on December 31, 2008 assuming the Attachment E Participant became
eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the BellSouth
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan on December 31, 2008, but applying the
Attachment E Participant s age and years of service as of March 1, 2011 and the
Attachment E Participant s Included Earnings as of December 31, 2008,
notwithstanding the form of payment of the BellSouth Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan s benefit that would actually be made to the Attachment E
Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and
notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such BellSouth
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan benefit. 

b.           The
benefit amount determined in accordance with this Attachment E (expressed as an
annuity) at the time of the Attachment E Participant s Termination of Employment
shall not be less than the benefit that would have been payable to the
Attachment E Participant if the Attachment E Participant had a Termination of
Employment on any prior December 31 (using pay, service, offsets and all factors
applicable on the previous dates and assuming an immediate benefit
commencement). 

c.           The
benefit amount determined in accordance with this Attachment E shall be reduced
(before the offset for benefits under the Pension Plan) by one-quarter percent
(0.25%) for each calendar month or part thereof by which the Attachment E
Participant s Termination of Employment precedes his or her 62nd
birthday. 

</EX-10.EE>

<EX-10.HH>
 21
 ex10hh.htm
 AT&T CORP EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

ex10hh.htm 

Exhibit
10-hh 

AT T 

      EXECUTIVE
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

Amended
and Restated Effective January 1, 2008 

AT T 

      EXECUTIVE
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

Background and
Purpose  

The
AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan was previously established to
provide a plan of deferred compensation for certain executives of the Company
who are classified as Officers and who contribute to the continued growth,
development, and future business of the Company.  From the time of its
adoption through December 31, 1984, the Plan was named the  Bell System
Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan .  During the period
from January 1, 1984 through December 31, 2004, the Plan was known as the
 AT T Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan .  The name
of the Plan was changed to  AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan ,
effective as of January 1, 2005, to reflect the broader classification of
executive-level employees who became eligible to participate in the Plan as of
that date. 

The
AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan is a  nonqualified deferred
compensation plan  as that term is defined in Code
Section 409A(d)(1).  The AT T Deferred Compensation Plan is
intended to constitute an  employee pension benefit plan  as defined in
Section 3(2)(A) of ERISA that covers a select group of management or highly
compensated employees. 

The
AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan is amended and restated, as set
forth herein, to (i) effective as of January 1, 2008, to incorporate a
series of amendments that were previously adopted by the AT T Corp. Board of
Directors; and (ii) effective as of January 1, 2005, to make additional
amendments, necessary for the AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan to
comply with the applicable provisions of Code Section 409A. 

The
AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated, provides
for two distinct programs:  (i) the  Grandfathered Deferral Program 
and (ii) the  Executive Deferral Program .  The Grandfathered Deferral
Program incorporates all provisions, rights, and obligations, in effect as of
December 31, 2004, and governs the deferral accounts (and any earnings thereon)
associated with compensation deferred under the AT T Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan that was earned and vested by the respective Participants
prior to January 1, 2005.  The Grandfathered Deferral Program,
and all accounts thereunder, is deemed to be a  grandfathered  nonqualified
deferred compensation plan that is not subject to the requirements of Code
Section 409A.  The Executive Deferral Program applies to all deferred
compensation under the Plan that was not earned and vested prior to January 1,
2005 (and any earnings thereon), and is subject the applicable provisions of
Code Section 409A. 

During
the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008, the AT T Executive
Deferred Compensation Plan has been operated in good faith compliance with the
provisions of Code Section 409A, Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, the
proposed Treasury Regulations for Code Section 409A, and the final Treasury
Regulations for Code Section 409A, and any other generally applicable guidance
published in the Internal Revenue Service Bulletin with an effective date prior
to January 1, 2009. 

Effective
November 18, 2005, AT T Corp. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC
Communications Inc. (now known as  AT T Inc. ) pursuant to the Agreement and
Plan of Merger dated as of January 30, 2005. 

Section 

      1. 

       Definitions  

The
following words and phrases, as used in this plan document, shall have the
meanings set forth below unless a clearly different meaning is required by the
context in which the word or phrase is used. 

1.0 

Administrator  .   Prior to
      August 22, 2006,  Administrator  means the Executive Vice President  
      Human Resources of AT T Corp. (or his or her delegate).  On
      and after August 22, 2006,  Administrator  means the most senior vice
      president of AT T Inc. responsible for human resource matters (or his
      or her designee).  The Administrator shall have absolute
      discretion to interpret, manage and administer the Plan in accordance with
      its terms and conditions. 

1.1 

Affiliate  .    Affiliate 
      means (i) any individual, corporation, partnership, association,
      joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or governmental
      or political subdivision thereof that directly, or through one or more
      intermediates, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control
      with, the Company; or (ii) any entity in which the Company has a
      significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee, provided,
      however, that effective immediately after the Closing, the term
       Affiliate  shall not include any individual, corporation, partnership,
      association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or
      governmental or political subdivision that was not an Affiliate
      immediately prior to the Closing other than AT T Enterprise Services,
      Inc. 

1.2 

Annual
      Base Salary  .    Annual
      Base Salary  means the amount of annual cash compensation for an active
      Officer or E-Band that is identified and treated as  salary  in accordance
      with the compensation and pay procedures of the Company, as in effect from
      time to time.  For clarification,  Annual Base Salary  does not
      include Annual Bonus. 

1.3 

Annual
      Bonus  .    Annual
      Bonus  means a cash payment of incentive compensation to an Officer or
      E-Band pursuant to the provisions of the AT T Short Term Incentive
      Plan, as amended from time to time. 

1.4 

AT T
      Common Stock  .   For periods
      prior to the Closing,  AT T Common Stock  means the common shares, par
      value of $1.00 per share, of AT T Corp.  After the Closing,
       AT T Common Stock  means the common shares, par value $1.00 per
      share, of AT T Inc. (known as SBC Communications Inc. prior to
      November 18, 2005). 

1.5 

AT T
      Share Price  .    AT T
      Share Price  means the average of the daily high and low sale prices of
      shares of AT T Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE )
      during each of the five (5) trading days ending on the applicable
      Determination Date, or during each of the five trading days immediately
      preceding the applicable Determination Date, if the NYSE is closed on the
      Determination Date. 

1.6 

Basic
      Deferral Distribution Option  .    Basic
      Deferral Distribution Option  means the distribution option under the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program that is provided for in
      Section 2.6. 

1.7 

Broadband
      Spin-Off  .    Broadband
      Spin-Off  means the spin-off of the Company s broadband unit that
      conducted business as  AT T Broadband  (or the spin-off of a
      newly-formed holding company for such broadband business) to the Company s
      shareholders pursuant to the definitive merger agreement for the
      AT T-Comcast transaction, as approved by the Board and announced by
      the Company on December 19,
2001. 

1.8 

Beneficiary  .    Beneficiary 
      means the person, trust, entity, organization or estate of a Participant
      designated pursuant to Section 2.5(f) or Section 3.10 that is entitled to
      receive benefits under the Grandfathered Deferral Program or the Executive
      Deferral Program, as applicable, upon the death of a
      Participant. 

1.9 

Board  .    Board 
      means the Board of Directors of the
Company. 

1.11 

CIC
      Eligible Employee  .
        CIC Eligible Employee  means a  Senior Officer  (as defined in the
      AT T Senior Officer Separation Plan), a  Senior Manager  (as defined
      in the AT T Senior Manager Separation Plan), or an  Executive  (as
      defined in the AT T Executive Separation Plan) or an  Employee  (as
      defined in the AT T Separation Plan), as the case may be who, within
      two (2) years following a Change in Control (a) is terminated for reasons
      other than (i)  cause , or (ii) by reason of becoming eligible for
      benefits under any Company-sponsored long-term disability plan; or
      (b) terminates employment for  good reason  occurring after a Change
      in Control. 

1.12 

Closing  .    Closing 
      means the closing of SBC Communications Inc. s acquisition of AT T
      Corp. as defined in the definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
      January 30, 2005, between AT T Corp. and SBC Communications
      Inc.  The Closing occurred on November 18,
      2005. 

1.14 

Committee  .   For periods
      prior to the Closing,    Committee  means
      the Compensation and Employee Benefits Committee of the Board (or the
      successor to such committee).  For period on or after the
      Closing,  Committee  means the
Administrator. 

1.15 

Company  .    Company 
      means AT T Corp., a New York corporation, and any successors to such
      entity. 

1.16 

Company
      Matching Contribution  .    Company
      Matching Contribution  means the matching contribution made by the Company
      to a Participant s deferral account under the Executive Deferral Program
      in accordance with the provisions of
  Section 3.5. 

1.17 

Determination
      Date  .    Determination
      Date  means the date on which a completed election form for the Basic
      Deferral Distribution Option from a Participant is received by the
      Administrator. 

1.18 

E-Band  .    E-Band 
      means a management employee of a Participating Company holding a position
      classified as a  Manager 5  or  Manager E , or its equivalent, in a
      non-banded environment, or at the salary grade level of  E-Band , or its
      equivalent, in a banded environment (also referred to as an  Executive  or
       Director  from time to time), as determined in the discretion of the
      Administrator. 

1.19 

Eligible
      Executive  .    Eligible
      Executive  means (i) in the context of the Grandfathered Deferral Program,
      an active management employee of a Participating Company who satisfies the
      eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.1; and (ii) in the context
      of the Executive Deferral Program, an active management employee of a
      Participating Company who satisfies the eligibility requirements set forth
      in Section 3.1. 

1.20 

Employer  .    Employer 
      means the Company and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, as
      determined by the Company in its sole discretion.  Effective
      immediately after the Closing, the term  Employer  shall, in addition,
      include AT T Enterprise Services, Inc. (known as  SBC Enterprise
      Services, Inc.  prior to January 19, 2006), which following the Closing
      became an affiliate of the Company. 

1.21 

ERISA  .    ERISA 
      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
      amended. 

1 .22 

Executive
      Deferral Program  .    Executive
      Deferral Program  means the nonqualified deferred compensation program
      described in Section 3 that is applicable to amounts of compensation
      deferred by Officers and E-Bands that was not earned and vested prior to
      January 1, 2005. 

1.23 

Grandfathered
      Deferral Program  .    Grandfathered
      Deferral Program  means the nonqualified deferred compensation program
      described in Section 2 that is applicable to amounts of compensation
      deferred by Officers that was earned and vested prior to January 1,
      2005.   The substantive terms and conditions of the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program, including all benefits and rights
      thereunder, are those that existed under the AT T Senior Management
      Incentive Award Deferral Plan on October 3, 2004, without any
      subsequent  material modifications  (as referred to in the federal income
      tax regulations underlying Code Section
409A). 

1.24 

Long
      Term Award  .    Long Term
      Award  means an Eligible Executive s annual grant from a Participating
      Company of  performance shares  (as defined in the 2004 Incentive Program)
      and/or restricted stock units. 

1.25 

Officer  .    Officer 
      means a management employee of a Participating Company holding a position
      classified as a  Manager 6 ,  Manager O  or higher level in a non-banded
      environment, or at a salary grade level above  E-Band , or its equivalent,
      in a banded environment (formerly referred to as a  Senior Manager  from
      time to time), as determined in the discretion of the
      Administrator. 

1.26 

Participant  .    Participant 
      means (i) in the context of the Grandfathered Deferral Program, an active
      or former Officer or E-Band who has satisfied the requirements in Section
      2.1 to be an Eligible Executive, has made one or more elections to defer
      compensation under the Grandfathered Deferral Program, and has an account
      balance under the Grandfathered Deferral Program; and (ii) in the
      context of the Executive Deferral Program, an active or former Officer or
      E-Band who has satisfied the requirements in Section 3.1 to be an
      Eligible Executive, has made one or more elections to defer compensation
      under the Executive Deferral Program, and has an account balance under the
      Executive Deferral Program. 

1.27 

Participating
      Company  .    Participating
      Company  means AT T Corp. and any
Affiliate. 

1.28 

Plan  .    Plan 
      means the AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, which shall be
      evidenced by this plan document, as amended from time to
      time.  During the period beginning on January 1, 1984, and
      ending on December 31, 2004, the Plan was known as the  AT T Senior
      Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan .  Prior to January 1,
      1984, the Plan was known as the  Bell System Senior Management Incentive
      Award Deferral Plan .  A reference in this document to the
       Plan  shall generally be construed as a reference to the Grandfathered
      Deferral Program and the Executive Deferral Program, collectively, unless
      another meaning is clearly required by the context in which the term
       Plan  is used. 

1.29 

Savings
      Plan  .    Savings
      Plan  means the AT T Long Term Savings Plan for Management Employees
      (or any successor to such plan). 

1.30 

Separation
      From Service  .    Separation
      From Service  means, for purposes of the Executive Deferral Program, a
      Participant s termination of the employment with the Employer for any
      reason which constitutes a "separation from service" under Code Section
      409A(a)(2).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the employment
      relationship of a Participant with the Employer is considered to remain
      intact while the Participant is on military leave, sick leave or other
      bona fide leave of absence if there is a reasonable expectation that the
      Participant will return to perform services for the Employer and the
      period of such leave does not exceed six (6) months, or if longer, so long
      as the Participant retains a right to reemployment with the Employer under
      applicable law or contract.  Whether an Participant has
      terminated employment with the Employer will be determined by the Employer
      based on whether (i) it is reasonably anticipated by the Employer and the
      Participant that the Participant will permanently cease providing services
      to the Employer (as either an employee or independent contractor); or (ii)
      the level of bona fide services to be performed by the Participant (as
      either an employee or independent contractor) will permanently decrease to
      no more than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of bona fide
      services performed (as either an employee or independent contractor) over
      the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period or such shorter
      period during which the Participant was performing services for the
      Employer.  If a leave of absence occurs during such thirty-six
      (36) month or shorter period which is not considered a separation from
      service, unpaid leaves of absence shall be disregarded and the level of
      services provided during any paid leave of absence shall be presumed to be
      the level of services required to receive the compensation paid with
      respect to such leave of absence. 

1.31 

Service
      Period  .    Service
      Period  means the calendar year during which an Eligible Executive s right
      to compensation from a Participating Company in the form of Annual Base
      Salary, Annual Bonus, and/or Long Term Award
  arises. 

1.32 

Service
      Recipient  .    Service
      Recipient  means the Employer and all other corporations, entities, and
      businesses (including, but not limited to, AT T Inc., a Delaware
      corporation) that together with the Employer are considered a single
      employer under Code Sections 414(b) and
414(c). 

1.33 

Specified
      Employee  .    Specified
      Employee  means any Participant who is a  Key Employee  (as defined in
      Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), as
      determined by the Company in accordance with its uniform policy with
      respect to all arrangements subject to Code Section 409A, based upon the
      12-month period ending on each December 31 st 
      (such 12-month period is referred to below as the  identification
      period ).  All Participants who are determined to be Key
      Employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5)
      thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Key
      Employees for purposes of the Plan during the 12-month period that begins
      on the first day of the 4 th 
      month following the close of such identification
  period. 

1.35 

Year
      of Service  .    Year of
      Service  shall have the same meaning as that assigned to such term under
      the Savings Plan from time to time. 

Section 

      2. 

       Grandfathered Deferral
Program  

2.0 

Continuation
      of Prior Deferred Compensation Plan  .   The
      Grandfathered Deferral Program, as set forth in Section 2, represents
      a restatement of the substantive terms and conditions of the AT T
      Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan, including all benefits
      and rights thereunder, as they existed on October 3, 2004.  The
      text set forth in Section 2 substantially tracks that in the AT T
      Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan document, as amended,
      through October 3, 2004.  Certain headings and introductory
      phrases have been introduced to the text for reference and transitional
      purposes; however, it is the Company s intent that the Grandfathered
      Deferral Program, as set forth herein, reflect no  material modification 
      (as referred to in the federal income tax regulations underlying Code
      Section 409A) to those terms and conditions in existence under the
      AT T Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan on October 3,
      2004.  It is further the Company s intent that the deferral
      accounts previously established under the AT T Senior Management
      Incentive Award Deferral Plan that was earned and vested prior to January
      1, 2005 (including all earning thereon) and all deferral and distribution
      elections made with respect to such deferral accounts, be treated as
      exempt from the application of the provisions of Code Section
      409A. 

2.1 

Eligibility
      to Participate  .   An active
      Officer of a Participating Company who is eligible for an award under the
      AT T Short Term Incentive Award Plan and/or who has been granted a
       performance award  or  stock unit award  under the AT T Senior
      Management Long Term Incentive Plan, the 1987 Long Term Incentive Plan,
      the AT T 1997 Long Term Incentive Program or the 2004 Incentive
      Program shall be eligible to commence participation in the Grandfathered
      Deferral Program, provided, however, that no active Officer or other
      individual may be or become eligible to participate under the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program with respect to the deferral of any form of
      compensation with respect to which the Officer or other individual did
      not, prior to January 1, 2005, have a legally binding right to such
      compensation, and that right was earned and
  vested. 

2.2 

Participation
      Elections  .   An Officer
      who satisfies the eligibility requirements in Section 2.1 may elect to
      participate in the Grandfathered Deferral Program by making an election to
      defer compensation in accordance with the following
      provisions: 

(a) 

Elections
      to Defer Awards and Dividend Equivalent Payments  .   Prior
      to the beginning of any calendar year, any Officer may elect to
      participate in the Grandfathered Deferral Program by directing that (i)
      all or part of an annual short term incentive award or a  performance
      award  or  stock unit award  under the 1987 Long Term Incentive Plan, the
      AT T 1997 Long Term Incentive Program  or the 2004 Incentive
      Program, and/or (ii) all or part of the dividend equivalent payments under
      the 1987 Long Term Incentive Plan, the AT T 1997 Long Term Incentive
      Program or the 2004 Incentive Program, that such employee s Participating
      Company would otherwise pay currently to such employee in such calendar
      year, shall be credited to a deferred account subject to the terms of the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program.  However, in no event shall the
      part of an award under any plan credited during any calendar year be less
      than $1,000 (based on a valuation at the time the award would otherwise be
      paid).  There shall be no such minimum limitation on amounts
      credited during any calendar year that are related to dividend equivalent
      payments. 

(b) 

Elections
      by Designated Officers to Defer Salary  .   Prior
      to the beginning of any calendar year, the Chairman of the Board and any
      other Officer designated by the Chairman of the Board may elect to
      participate in the Grandfathered Deferral Program by directing that all or
      part of such Officer s salary that such employee s Participating Company
      would otherwise pay currently to such employee in such calendar year shall
      be credited to a deferred account subject to the terms of the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program. 

(c) 

Elections
      to Defer Other Compensation  .   Subject
      to approval by the Committee, prior to the beginning of any calendar year,
      any Officer may elect to participate in the Grandfathered Deferral Program
      as to other awards under the 1987 Long Term Incentive Plan, AT T 1997
      Long Term Incentive Program or 2004 Incentive Program, or other amounts of
      compensation of such Officer, by directing that all or part of such awards
      or compensation that such Officer s Participating Company would otherwise
      pay currently to such Officer in such calendar year be credited to a
      deferred account subject to the terms of the Grandfathered Deferral
      Program. 

(d) 

Form
      of Deferral Elections  .   An
      election to participate in the Grandfathered Deferral Program described in
      Section 2.2(a), Section 2.2(b) or Section 2.2(c) shall be in the form of a
      document executed by the Officer and filed with the Executive Vice
      President   Human Resources of AT T Corp. (or his or her
      designee). 

(e) 

Irrevocability
      of Deferral Elections  .   Except
      as provided in Section 2.5(k) or Section 2.6, an election related to
      awards, dividend equivalent payments, salary and/or other compensation
      otherwise payable currently in any calendar year shall become irrevocable
      on the last day prior to the beginning of such calendar
    year. 

(f) 

Elections
      to Defer Made by Newly-Eligible Officers  .   Notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary contained in this Section 2.2, in the case of an
      Officer who is newly eligible to participate in the Grandfathered Deferral
      Program, or in the case of any Officer with respect to awards or
      compensation newly eligible to be deferred under the Grandfathered
      Deferral Program, a deferral election may be made with respect to
      compensation earned and otherwise receivable in the same calendar year in
      which the election is made and subsequent to such election, provided such
      election is made within ninety (90) days of such
    eligibility. 

2.3 

Deferred
      Amounts   Amounts Otherwise Payable in Cash  .   Amounts of
      compensation deferred under the Grandfathered Deferral Program pursuant to
      elections made under the provisions of Section 2.2 that otherwise would be
      payable in cash shall be credited to the Officer s account and
      administered in accordance with the following
  provisions: 

(a) 

General
      Rule  .   Deferred
      amounts related to awards, dividend equivalent payments which would
      otherwise have been distributed in cash by a Participating Company and
      deferred amounts related to salary and/or other cash compensation shall be
      credited to the employee s account and shall bear interest from the date
      the awards, dividend equivalent payments, salary and/or other cash
      compensation would otherwise have been
paid. 

(b) 

Interest
      Crediting Rate and Methodology  .   The
      interest credited to the account will be compounded at the end of each
      calendar quarter, and the annual rate of interest applied at the end of
      any calendar quarter shall be determined by the Committee from time to
      time; provided, however, that: 

(i) 

The
      annual interest rate to be applied with respect to the cash portion of an
      employee s (or former employee s) deferred account balance as of December
      31, 1998, plus any additions to such account after December 31, 1998, but
      prior to January 1, 2000, that result from deferral elections made by the
      employee prior to December 31, 1998 (reduced by any distributions
      attributable to such portion of the employee s deferred account balance),
      shall not be less than the applicable ten (10) year U.S. Treasury Note
      rate for the prior calendar quarter, plus five percent
    (5%). 

(ii) 

The
      annual interest rate to be applied with respect to any additions to the
      cash portion of an employee s (or former employee s) deferred account
      after December 31, 1999, but prior to January 1, 2001, that result from
      deferral elections made by the employee prior to December 31, 1999, shall
      be the applicable ten (10) year U.S. Treasury Note rate for the prior
      calendar quarter, plus five percent
(5%). 

(iii) 

The
      annual interest rate to be applied with respect to any additions to the
      cash portion of an employee s (or former employee s) deferred account
      after December 31, 2000, shall be the applicable ten (10)
    year 

U.S.
Treasury Note rate for the prior calendar quarter, plus two percent
(2%). 

(c) 

Special
      Transition Rule  .   If
      an employee made an election described in Section 2.2, which election was
      effective on December 31, 1983, then such employee s account shall also be
      credited during 1984 with an amount equal to the deferred amounts which
      would have been credited to the employee s account during 1984 had the
      company which employed the employee on December 31, 1983, continued to be
      a Participating Company during 1984, and such amount shall bear interest
      in accordance with Section 2.3(b) from the date such amount would have
      been credited had such company continued to be a Participating Company
      during 1984. 

2.4 

Deferred
      Amounts   Amounts Otherwise Payable in AT T Common Stock  .   Amounts of
      compensation deferred under the Grandfathered Deferral Program pursuant to
      elections made under the provisions of Section 2.2 that otherwise
      would  be payable in AT T Common Stock shall be credited to
      the Officer s account and administered in accordance with the following
      provisions: 

(a) 

General
      Rule  .   Deferred
      amounts related to awards that would otherwise have been distributed in
      AT T Common Stock by a Participating Company shall be credited to the
      employee s account as deferred AT T Common
  Stock. 

(b) 

Special
      Transition Rule  .   If
      an employee made an election described in Section 2.2, which election was
      effective on December 31, 1983, then such employee s account shall also be
      credited during 1984 with the deferred AT T shares which would have
      been credited to the employee s account had the company which employed the
      employee on December 31, 1983, continued to be a Participating Company in
      the Plan and in the AT T Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan
      during 1984. 

(c)  

Deferred
      Amounts Related to Dividend Equivalent Payments  .   Prior
      to the beginning of any calendar year, the Chairman of the Board and any
      other Officer designated by the Chairman of the Board may elect that
      deferred amounts related to dividend equivalent payments, which would
      otherwise have been distributed in cash by a Participating Company during
      such calendar year, shall be credited to the employee s account as
      deferred AT T Common Stock.  The number of deferred AT T
      Common Stock credited, with respect to each dividend equivalent, shall be
      determined in accordance with the conversion formula set forth in Section
      2.4(d), as if such dividend equivalent were the amount to be converted to
      a number of additional deferred AT T Common
  Stock. 

(d) 

Dividend
      Payment Conversions to AT T Common Stock  .   The
      employee s account shall also be credited on each dividend payment date
      for deferred AT T Common Stock with an amount equivalent to the
      dividend payable on the number of deferred AT T shares of Common Stock
      equal to the number of deferred AT T shares of Common Stock in the
      employee s account on the record date for such dividend.  Such
      amount shall then be converted to a number of additional deferred AT T
      shares of Common Stock determined by dividing such amount by the price of
      AT T Common Stock, as determined in the following
      sentence.  The price of AT T Common Stock related to any
      dividend payment date shall be the average of the daily high and low sale
      prices of AT T Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE )
      for the period of five (5) trading days ending on such dividend payment
      date, or the period of five (5) trading days immediately preceding such
      dividend payment date if the NYSE is closed on the dividend payment
      date. 

(e) 

Adjustments
      in Number of Deferred AT T Common Stock  .   In
      the event of any change in outstanding shares of AT T Common Stock by
      reason of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger,
      consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or other similar
      corporate change, the Committee shall make such adjustments, if any, that
      it deems appropriate in the number of deferred AT T shares of Common
      Stock then credited to employees  accounts.  Any and all such
      adjustments shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties
      concerned. 

(f) 

Special
      Deferred Share Conversion Election  .   An
      employee with deferred shares of AT T Common Stock credited to his
      account may make an irrevocable, one-time election to convert all or a
      portion of the deferred shares of AT T Common Stock credited to his
      deferred account to their cash value amount and have such amount credited
      to the employee s account.  If an employee makes this conversion
      election, the value of the deferred shares of AT T Common Stock
      subject to the employee s conversion election shall be determined by
      multiplying (i) the number of deferred shares of AT T Common Stock
      credited to the employee s account that are subject to the employee s
      conversion election, by (ii) the average of the daily high and low sale
      prices of AT T Common Stock on the NYSE during each of the five (5)
      trading days immediately preceding the date applicable to the AT T
      Wireless Group split-off transaction, as determined by the Executive Vice
      President - Human Resources of AT T Corp., in consultation with the
      AT T Law Department.  After such cash value amount has been
      credited to the employee s account, it shall thereafter be credited with
      interest from time to time at the applicable rate determined under Section
      2.3(b) for amounts of salary and/or other cash compensation deferred
      during the year in which the split-off of the AT T Wireless Group is
      consummated.  An employee s conversion election must be made
      within the time period established by the Executive Vice President - Human
      Resources of AT T Corp., in consultation with the AT T Law
      Department.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
      Section 2.4(f), no conversion of deferred shares of AT T Common Stock
      to their cash value amount shall have been effective unless (i) the Board
      (or its delegate) approves the Separation and Distribution Agreement By
      and Between AT T Corp. and AT T Wireless Services, Inc. ( Wireless
      Separation and Distribution Agreement  (ii) the Board (or its
      delegate) approves the Employee Benefits Agreement By and Between AT T
      Corp. and AT T Wireless Services, Inc. ( Wireless Employee Benefits
      Agreement  and (iii) the AT T Wireless Group split-off transaction
      contemplated by the Wireless Separation and Distribution Agreement and the
      Wireless Employee Benefits Agreement is consummated.  The period
      during which an employee may submit a Special Deferred Share Conversion
      Election has closed, and no such further elections shall be permitted
      under the Plan. 

2.5 

Distributions  .   The amounts
      credited to an employee s deferred account shall be distributed in
      accordance with the following
provisions: 

(a) 

Distribution
      Elections  .   At
      the time an eligible employee makes an election to participate in the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program, the employee shall also make an election
      with respect to the distribution (during the employee s lifetime or in the
      event of the employee s death) of the amounts credited to the employee s
      deferred account.  Except as provided in Section 2.5(k) or
      Section 2.6, such an election related to the distribution during the
      employee s lifetime, of amounts otherwise payable currently in any
      calendar year, shall become irrevocable on the last day prior to the
      beginning of such calendar year.  The election related to the
      distribution in the event of the employee s death, including the
      designation of a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, may be changed by the
      employee at any time by filing the appropriate document with the Executive
      Vice President   Human Resources of AT T Corp. (or his or her
      designee). 

(b) 

Form
      of Distributions  .   Amounts
      credited as cash plus accumulated interest shall be distributed in cash;
      amounts credited as deferred shares of AT T Common Stock shall be
      distributed in the form of an equal number of AT T shares of Common
      Stock. 

(c) 

Number
      of Installment Payments  .   With
      respect to amounts related to deferred cash credited to the employee s
      account under Section 2.3(a), and to deferred shares of AT T Common
      Stock credited to the employee s account under Section 2.4(a), Section
      2.4(b) or Section 2.4(c), an employee may elect to receive such amounts in
      one payment or in some other number of approximately equal annual
      installments (not exceeding twenty (20)), provided however, that the
      number of annual installments may not extend beyond the life expectancy of
      the employee, determined as of the date the first installment is
      paid. 

(d) 

Time
      of Commencement of Payments  .   The
      employee s election made pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.5(a)
      shall also specify that the first installment (or the single payment if
      the employee has so elected) shall be paid either (i) as soon as
      practicable after the first day of the calendar quarter next following the
      end of the month in which the employee attains the age specified in such
      election, which age shall not be earlier than age fifty-five (55) or later
      than age seventy and one-half (70 ), or (ii) as soon as practicable after
      the first day of the calendar quarter next following the end of the month
      in which the employee retires from a Participating Company or otherwise
      terminates employment with a Participating Company (except for a transfer
      to another Participating Company); provided, however, that the Committee
      may, in its sole discretion, direct that the first installment (or the
      single payment) shall be paid as soon as practicable after the first day
      of the first calendar quarter in the calendar year next following the year
      of retirement or other termination of employment.  In addition,
      any Officer eligible to defer salary may specify that the first
      installment (or the single payment if the employee has so elected) shall
      be paid as soon as practicable after the first day of the first calendar
      quarter in the calendar year next following the calendar year in which the
      employee retires from a Participating Company or otherwise terminates
      employment with a Participating Company (except for a transfer to another
      Participating Company). 

(e) 

Acceleration
      of Distributions  .   Notwithstanding
      an election pursuant to Section 2.5(c) and Section 2.5(d), the entire
      amount then credited to an employee s account shall be paid immediately in
      a single payment (i) if the employee is discharged for cause by his
      Participating Company; (ii) if the such Participating Company determines
      that the employee engaged in misconduct in connection with the employee s
      employment with the Participating Company; (iii) if the employee, without
      the consent of his Participating Company and while employed by such
      Participating Company or after the termination of such employment,
      establishes a relationship with a competitor of the Participating Company
      or engages in activity which is in conflict with or adverse to the
      interest of the Participating Company as determined under the AT T
      Non-Competition Guideline; or (iv) the employee becomes employed by a
      governmental agency having jurisdiction over the activities of a
      Participating Company or any of its
  subsidiaries. 

(f) 

Distributions
      to Beneficiaries  .   An
      employee may elect that, in the event the employee should die before full
      payment of all amounts credited to the employee s deferred account, the
      balance of the deferred account shall be distributed in one payment or in
      some other number of approximately equal annual installments (not
      exceeding ten (10)) to the Beneficiary or Beneficiaries designated in
      writing by the employee, or if no designation has been made, to the estate
      of the employee.  The first installment (or the single payment
      if the employee has so elected) shall be paid on the first day of the
      calendar quarter next following the month of death; provided, however,
      that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, direct that the first
      installment (or the single payment) shall be paid as soon as practicable
      after the first day of the first calendar quarter in the calendar year
      next following the year of death. 

(g) 

Installment
      Payment Methodology  .   Installments
      subsequent to the first installment to the employee, or to a Beneficiary
      or to the employee s estate, shall be paid on the first day of the
      applicable calendar quarter in each succeeding calendar year until the
      entire amount credited to the employee s deferred account shall have been
      paid.  Deferred amounts held pending distribution shall continue
      to be credited with interest or additional deferred shares of AT T
      Common Stock, as applicable, determined in accordance with Section 2.3,
      Section 2.4(a), Section 2.4(b), Section 2.4(c), and
      Section 2.4(d). 

(h) 

Severe
      Financial Hardship  .   In
      the event an employee, or the employee s beneficiary after the employee s
      death, incurs a severe financial hardship, the Committee, in its sole
      discretion, may accelerate or otherwise revise the distribution schedules
      from the employee s account to the extent reasonably necessary to
      eliminate the severe financial hardship.  For the purpose of
      this Section 2.5(h), a severe financial hardship will be considered to
      have occurred only if (i) the hardship has been caused by an accident,
      illness, or other event beyond the control of the employee or, if
      applicable, the beneficiary; and (ii) the hardship cannot be satisfied by
      other reasonably available financial resources of the employee, or if
      applicable, the beneficiary. 

(i) 

Obligation
      to Make Distributions of Deferred Amounts  .   The
      obligation to make a distribution of deferred amounts credited to an
      employee s account during any calendar year, plus the additional amounts
      credited on such deferred amounts pursuant to Section 2.3, Section 2.4(a),
      Section 2.4(b), Section 2.4(c), and Section 2.4(d), shall be borne by the
      Participating Company which otherwise would have paid the related award or
      salary currently.  However, the obligation to make distribution
      with respect to deferred amounts which are related to amounts credited to
      an employee s account under Section 2.3(c) and under Section 2.4(b), and
      with respect to which no Participating Company would otherwise have paid
      the related award currently, shall be borne by the Participating Company
      which employed the employee on January 1,
1984. 

(j) 

Elections
      to Forego Deferred Compensation  .   Notwithstanding
      any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the amount credited to a former
      Officer s account shall be reduced by the amount specified in an Election
      to Forego Compensation Form executed by the former Officer under the
      AT T Corp. Estate Enhancement Program, and the reduction shall be
      effective as of the effective date of such
  election. 

(k) 

Modified
      Distribution Elections  .   Notwithstanding
      the provisions of Section 2.5(a), Section 2.5(d), and any election made
      thereunder, an employee may modify a prior distribution election to
      preclude payment of his deferred account balance upon termination of
      employment and to provide for payment of the amount credited to his
      deferred account to commence as soon as practicable after attainment of a
      specific age (not greater than age sixty-five (65)) and to be distributed
      in one payment or in some other number of approximately equal annual
      installments (not exceeding ten (10)), provided that such modified
      distribution election (the  Modified Deferral Election ) shall be
      effective with respect to the employee only if (i) the Board (or its
      delegate) approves the Wireless Separation and Distribution Agreement and
      the Wireless Employee Benefits Agreement; (ii) the Modified Deferral
      Election is made on or before December 31, 2000, or such later date as
      approved by the AT T Corp. Tax Department; (iii) the AT T Wireless
      Group split-off transaction contemplated by the Wireless Separation and
      Distribution Agreement and the Wireless Employee Benefits Agreement is
      consummated; and (iv) the employee becomes a  Transferred Individual  as
      defined in the Wireless Employee Benefits Agreement.  A Modified
      Deferral Election must be made within the time period established by the
      Executive Vice President - Human Resources of AT T Corp., in
      consultation with the AT T Corp. Law Department.  Once made,
      a Modified Deferral Election shall be irrevocable.  If an
      employee makes more than one Modified Deferral Election, all such Modified
      Deferral Elections made by the employee shall provide for payments to
      commence at the same specific age and in the same number of annual
      installments.  The period during which an employee may submit a
      Modified Deferral Election has closed, and no such further elections shall
      be permitted under the Plan. 

2.6 

Basic Deferral
      Distribution Option . 

(a) 

Notwithstanding
      the provisions of Section 2.5(a), Section 2.5(b), Section 2.5(c), and
      Section 2.5(d) to the contrary, effective thirty (30) days after the date
      on which the Broadband Spin-Off occurs, a Participant shall have an option
      to relinquish all of his rights under all prior deferral and distribution
      elections made under the Grandfathered Deferral Program.  The
      rights to be relinquished shall include, but not be limited to, the right
      to continued deferral of the balance of his deferred account in the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program (until full payment is made in accordance
      with the Participant s previous distribution elections made pursuant to
      Section 2.5), the right (to the extent applicable) to future interest
      credits on the cash portion of his deferred account as provided for in
      Section 2.3(a) and Section 2.3(b), and ten (10) percent of his or her
      deferred account balance as of the Determination Date.  In
      exchange for relinquishing all of his or her rights under the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program, the Participant shall receive a single
      payment of an amount equal to ninety percent (90%) of the Participant s
      deferred account balance as of the Determination Date (as determined under
      Section 2.6(a)(ii) and Section 2.6(a)(iii)), payable in the form of
      AT T Common Stock, provided, however, that, effective as of November
      20, 2008, accounts distributed under the Basic Deferral Distribution
      Option shall be made pursuant to Section 2.6(a)(iv).  The
      distribution shall be made as soon as administratively practicable after
      the applicable Determination Date, in a manner determined by the
      Administrator, subject to the following terms and
    conditions: 

(i) 

The
      Basic Deferral Distribution Option may be exercised only by an irrevocable
      written election made by a Participant on a form approved by the
      Administrator and filed with the Administrator on a date not earlier than
      thirty (30) days after the date on which the Broadband Spin-Off
      occurs; 

(ii) 

For
      purposes of the Basic Deferral Distribution Option, the value of a
      Participant s deferred account as of the Determination Date shall equal
      the sum of (1) the value of the deferred cash portion, and (2) the value
      of the portion represented by the deferred shares of AT T Common
      Stock, determined as follows: 

(A) 

The
      value of the deferred cash portion of a Participant s deferred account
      shall be the Participant s deferred account balance (excluding any
      deferred shares of AT T Common Stock credited to such account) as of
      the Determination Date (including all interest credited to such deferred
      account through that date); and 

(B) 

The
      value of the portion represented by the deferred shares of AT T Common
      Stock (if any) of the Participant s deferred account shall be determined
      by (1) multiplying the number of deferred shares of AT T Common Stock
      credited to the Participant s deferred account on the Determination Date,
      by (2) the AT T Share Price; 

(iii) 

For
      periods prior to November 20, 2008, the number of shares of AT T
      Common Stock to be distributed to a Participant who elects the Basic
      Deferral Distribution Option shall be determined by dividing (1) ninety
      percent (90%) of the value of the Participant s deferred account (as
      determined in Section 2.6(a)(ii)), by (2) the AT T Share
      Price. 

(iv)  On
      or after November 20, 2008, the distribution shall consist of
      (1) ninety percent (90%) of the deferred shares of AT T Common
      Stock (if any) credited to the Participant s deferred account, and
      (2) ninety percent (90%) of the value of the deferred cash portion of
      a Participant s deferred account balance (excluding any deferred shares of
      AT T Common Stock credited to such account) as of the Determination
      Date (including all interest credited to such deferred account through
      that date). 

(v) 

If
      a Participant is deceased, the Participant did not file an election for
      the Basic Deferral Distribution Option with the Administrator prior to the
      Participant s death, and amounts are payable to one or more Beneficiaries
      from a deceased Participant s deferred account, each of the Participant s
      Beneficiaries shall have the independent right to elect the Basic Deferral
      Distribution Option with respect to the portion of the deceased
      Participant s deferred account to which the respective Beneficiary is then
      entitled, subject to substantially the same terms and conditions that
      would be applicable under this Section 2.6 if the Beneficiary were a
      Participant; and 

(vi) 

The
      Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, require the Participant
      to execute a written receipt or such other documentation determined to be
      appropriate, on a form approved by the Administrator, as a condition for
      receipt of the shares of AT T Common
Stock. 

(b) 

No
      Participant s election of the Basic Deferral Distribution Option pursuant
      to Section 2.6(a) shall be effective (and no distribution shall be made
      pursuant to a Participant s election of the Basic Deferral Distribution
      Option) until the later of (i) thirty (30) days after the date on which
      the Broadband Spin-Off occurs; or (ii) the satisfaction of all federal and
      state securities law requirements relative to the distribution of AT T
      Common Stock to Participants who elect the Basic Deferral Distribution
      Option. 

2.7 

Termination
      of Participation  .   A
      Participant s participation in the Grandfathered Deferral Program shall
      terminate when the first of any of the following events
      occurs: 

(a) 

The
      death of the Participant; 

(b) 

The
      Participant ceases to have an account balance under the Grandfathered
      Deferral Program; 

(c) 

The
      Board (or its delegate) terminates the Grandfathered Deferral Program
      pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.1;
or 

(d) 

The
      Board (or its delegate) terminates the Plan pursuant to the provisions of
      Section 5.1. 

Section 

      3. 

       Executive Deferral
Program  

3.0 

Establishment
      of Executive Deferral Program  .   The
      Executive Deferral Program was established as part of the Plan, effective
      January 1, 2005, and applies to payments of Annual Base Salary and Annual
      Bonus, and grants of Long Term Awards, to Eligible Executives by a
      Participating Company that were not earned and vested prior to January 1,
      2005. 

3.1 

Eligibility  .   An
      individual shall be an Eligible Executive who is eligible to participate
      in the Executive Deferral Program if he or she is an active employee of a
      Participating Company who is classified as either an Officer or an
      E-Band. 

3.2 

Commencement
      of Participation  .   An Eligible
      Executive may elect to participate in the Executive Deferral Program
      initially, and for any Service Period thereafter, by making a deferral
      election in accordance with the provisions of Section
  3.3. 

3.3            Deferral
Elections  .  

(a) 

Form
      of Deferral Elections  .     Any deferral
      election under the Executive Deferral Program shall be made in writing on
      such form, or in such other manner, as the Administrator (or his or her
      designee) shall prescribe from time to time.  Each deferral
      election shall apply to a specified Service Period, and with respect to
      such Service Period shall (i) designate the type of compensation
      identified in Section 3.3(b) the Eligible Executive elects to defer; (ii)
      specify the amount (subject to the percentage limitations in Section
      3.3(b)) of each type of compensation attributable to the Service Period
      which the Eligible Executive elects to defer; and (iii) indicate the
      Eligible Executive s election to receive distribution of the deferred
      amounts upon his or her Separation From Service in a manner that conforms
      with the provisions of Section 3.8 and/or in the form of an in-service
      distribution that conforms with the provisions of Section
    3.9. 

(b) 

Allowable
      Amounts of Compensation for Deferral  .   Under
      the Executive Deferral Program, an Eligible Executive may elect to defer
      the following amounts of compensation with respect to any Service
      Period: 

(i)   

Up
      to fifty percent (50%) of the Eligible Executive s Annual Base
      Salary; 

(ii)   

Up
      to one hundred percent (100%) of the Eligible Executive s Annual Bonus;
      and 

(iii)   

Up
      to one hundred percent (100%) of the Eligible Executive s annual grant of
      Long-Term Awards. 

(c) 

Time
      of Deferral Elections  .   Except
      as provided in Section 3.3(d), a deferral election under the Executive
      Deferral Program must be made no later than the time specified by the
      Administrator; provided, however,
that: 

(i) 

A
      deferral election with respect to the deferral of an Eligible Executive s
      Annual Base Salary shall be made no later than the last day of the
      calendar year immediately preceding the Service Period to which such
      deferral election applies; and 

(ii) 

A
      deferral election with respect to the deferral of an Eligible Executive s
      Annual Bonus and/or Long Term Awards that constitute  performance-based
      compensation  (as defined in the federal income tax regulations for Code
      Section 409A) shall be made no later than six (6) months before the end of
      the applicable Service Period. 

Notwithstanding
the preceding provisions of this Section 3.3(c), the Administrator (or his or
her designee) may, in his or her sole discretion, require that a deferral
election with respect to an Eligible Executive s Annual Base Salary, Annual
Bonus, and Long Term Awards (if any) for a particular Service Period all be made
prior to the last day of the calendar year immediately preceding the Service
Period to which such deferral election applies. 

(d) 

Newly
      Eligible Executives  .   If
      an Eligible Executive first becomes eligible to participate in the
      Executive Deferral Program during a Service Period, the Eligible Executive
      may make an initial deferral election within thirty (30) days after the
      Eligible Executive first becomes eligible to participate in the Executive
      Deferral Program.  Such deferral election shall be made only
      with respect to Annual Base Salary, Annual Bonus, and Long Term Award
      compensation earned, payable or granted for services performed by the
      Eligible Executive after the deferral election is
  made. 

(e) 

Irrevocability
      of Deferral Elections  .   A
      deferral election (including the distribution elections comprising part of
      a deferral election) under the Executive Deferral Program shall be deemed
      made when it is received by the Administrator (or his or her designee) but
      in any event such election must be received before the commencement of the
      Service Period.  Once a deferral election under the Executive
      Deferral Program has been made, it shall be irrevocable, and except as
      provided in Section 3.14 and Section 3.15, shall not be subject to any
      subsequent modification as to the amount of compensation to be deferred
      for the particular Service Period and/or the time and form of payment of
      the deferred compensation to which such election
  applies. 

(f) 

Cessation
      of Deferrals  .   Notwithstanding
      any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no Eligible Executive may make
      an election to defer compensation under the Executive Deferral Program
      that provides for the crediting of any amount of deferred compensation to
      a deferral account under the Plan after December 31,
  2006. 

(g) 

Independent
      Annual Deferral Elections  .   An
      Eligible Executive may annually make a deferral election covering his or
      her Annual Base Salary, Annual Bonus, and Long Term Awards attributable to
      a particular Service Period.  The Eligible Executive s deferral
      election made for each Service Period shall be independent of his or her
      deferral elections made for other Service Periods.  All deferral
      elections made under the Executive Deferral Program shall be independent
      of the Eligible Executive s deferral elections, if any, made under the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program. 

(a) 

Types
      of Deferred Compensation Credited to Accounts  .   The
      deferred compensation credited to the cash portion of a Participant s
      deferral account under the Executive Deferral Program shall be amounts of
      deferred Annual Base Salary and Annual Bonus that, but for the
      Participant s deferral election, would have been payable to the
      Participant as cash, plus the Company Matching Contributions associated
      with such deferred compensation.  The deferred compensation
      credited to the deferred AT T share unit portion of a Participant s
      deferral account under the Executive Deferral Program shall be deferred
      Long Term Awards that, but for the Participant s deferral election, would
      have been payable to the Participant as shares of AT T Common
      Stock. 

(b)    

Amounts
      of Deferred Compensation Credited to Accounts  .   The
      amounts of deferred compensation credited to a Participant s account under
      the Executive Deferral Program with respect to any deferral election shall
      be determined in accordance with the following
  provisions: 

(i)  

Annual
      Base Salary  .   The
      amount of Annual Base Salary to which a Participant s deferral election
      shall be applied shall first be reduced by any pre-tax benefit deductions
      (including medical benefit premiums payable under a Code Section 125 plan
      and/or any contributions to a healthcare reimbursement account plan), but
      shall not be reduced for contributions made to the Savings
      Plan.  The amount of Annual Base Salary credited to a
      Participant s deferral account shall be the percentage of his or her
      Annual Base Salary in any paycheck to be deferred under the Executive
      Deferral Program, net of withholding deductions for FICA and Medicare
      taxes due on the deferred amount of Annual Salary and federal and state
      income tax withholding based on the FICA and Medicare tax
      deductions. 

(ii)  

Annual
      Bonus  .   The
      amount of Annual Bonus credited to a Participant s deferral account shall
      be the percentage of Annual Bonus to be deferred under the Executive
      Deferral Program, net of withholding deductions for FICA and Medicare
      taxes due on the deferred amount of the Annual Bonus and federal and state
      income tax withholding based on the FICA and Medicare tax
      deductions. 

(iii)      

Long
      Term Awards  .   The
      amount of Long Term Awards credited to a Participant s deferral account
      shall be the percentage of Long Term Awards to be deferred under the
      Executive Deferral Program, net of withholding deductions for FICA and
      Medicare taxes due on the deferred amount of the Long Term Awards and
      federal and state income tax withholding based on the FICA and Medicare
      tax deductions. 

3.5   

Company
      Matching Contributions  .   Amounts of
      Annual Base Salary and Annual Bonus deferred under the Executive Deferral
      Program are eligible for Matching Company Contributions as provided in
      this Section 3.5. 

(a)          

Matching
      Contribution Rate Formula  .   Subject
      to the limitations set forth in Section 3.5(b), the Company shall match a
      Participant s contributions of deferred Annual Base Salary and deferred
      Annual Bonus under the Executive Deferral Program for a payroll period
      with periodic cash contributions to the Participant s deferral account at
      the rate of two-thirds of the sum of the Participant s deferred Annual
      Base Salary and Annual Bonus under the Executive Deferral Program for such
      payroll period. 

(b)     

Maximum
      Company Matching Contribution  .   Notwithstanding
      the provisions of Section 3.5(a), the Company Matching Contribution to the
      Executive Deferral Program with respect to a Participant for any payroll
      period shall not exceed four percent (4%) of the sum of a Participant s
      Annual Base Salary and Annual Bonus for the payroll period (before
      reduction by the amount of Participant s deferrals under the Executive
      Deferral Program, the amount of the Participant s elective deferrals under
      the Savings Plan, and the amount of any pre-tax salary reductions for the
      Participant under a Company-sponsored Code Section 125 cafeteria plan),
      less the amount of  company matching contributions  allocated to the
      Participant s account under the Savings Plan for the corresponding payroll
      period.  For purposes of applying this limitation, the Company
      shall first match a Participant s contributions, if any, to the Savings
      Plan until the allowable annual compensation and/or contribution
      limitations under the Savings Plan are attained; provided, however, that
      the Company Matching Contribution on the deferred portion of an Officer s
      Annual Bonus shall be credited entirely to his or her deferral account
      under the Executive Deferral
Program. 

(c) 

Annual
      Limitation on Company Matching Contribution  .   In
      no event shall the amount of the Company Matching Contribution made
      pursuant to Section 3.5(a) and Section 3.5(b) with respect to any
      Participant for any Plan Year exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the
       matching company contribution  that could have been credited to the
      Participant s account under the Savings Plan in the absence of any
      plan-based restrictions that reflect the limits on qualified plan
      contributions under the Code. 

3.6            Vesting  .  

(a)      

Participant
      Contributions  .   A
      Participant shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested at all times in his
      or her contributions of deferred Annual Base Salary, Annual Bonus, and
      Long Term Awards (and all earnings thereon) to his or her deferral account
      under the Executive Deferral
Program. 

(b)      

Company
      Matching Contributions  .   The
      Company Matching Contributions credited to a Participant s deferral
      account under the Executive Deferral Program (and any earning thereon)
      shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested after the Participant completes
      three (3) Years of Service.  If not then vested, the Company
      Matching Contributions credited to a Participant s account under the
      Executive Deferral Program (and any earning thereon) shall also become one
      hundred percent (100%) vested, regardless of his or her number of Years of
      Service, upon the occurrence of any of the following events prior to (or
      concurrent with) his or her Separation From
  Service: 

(i) 

The
      Participant terminates employment the Company with eligibility for
      AT T Corp. Postretirement Welfare Benefits under the AT T Pension
      Plan or the AT T Management Pension
Plan; 

(ii) 

The
      Participant separates from service due to permanent
      disability; 

(iii) 

The
      Participant attains the first day of the month in which his or her
      sixty-fifth (65 th )
      birthday occurs; 

(iv) 

The
      Participant separates from service pursuant to a Company-initiated force
      reduction program or in accordance with the Company s practices with
      respect to technological
displacement; 

(v) 

The
      Participant is laid off (Participant s position is eliminated or relocated
      and redeployment is not possible); 

(vi) 

The
      Participant dies; 

(vii) 

The
      Participant is assigned to an entity, other than a Participating Company
      or another Affiliate., and terminates employment with a Participating
      Company solely for this purpose; 

(viii) 

The
      Participant s employment with a Participating Company is terminated on
      account of a disposition of assets or disposition of a
      subsidiary; 

(ix) 

The
      Participant s employment with a Participating Company is terminated as
      part of an outsourcing transaction; 

(x) 

This
      Plan is terminated or partially terminated, or there is a complete
      discontinuance of contributions by a Participating Company, other than by
      reason of being merged into, or consolidated with, another Participating
      Company; or 

(xi) 

Upon
      the date a  Change in Control  (as such term is defined in the 2004
      Incentive Program as of May 19, 2004) occurs, provided he or she is a CIC
      Eligible Employee. 

(c)    

Forfeitures  .   If
      a Participant terminates employment with the Employer before the Company
      Matching Contributions credited to his or her deferral account are one
      hundred percent (100%) vested, the Participant s Company Matching
      Contributions and the associated earnings credited to the Participant s
      deferral account under the Executive Deferral Program shall be
      forfeited.  The Company Matching Contributions and any earnings
      thereon credited to a Participant s deferral account under the Executive
      Deferral Program shall also be forfeited if the Participant violates the
      AT T Non-Competition Guidelines or the AT T Code of
      Conduct. 

3.7            Deferral
Account Earnings  .  

(a)      

Earnings
      on Cash Portion of Deferral Account  .   The
      annual rate of interest crediting on amounts allocated to the cash portion
      of a Participant s deferral account under the Executive Deferral Program
      shall be equal to the yield on the ten (10) year U.S. Treasury Note, plus
      a premium amount, denominated as a percentage rate, determined by the
      Board (or its designee) from time to time.  For 2005 and all
      subsequent years until modified by the Board (or its designee), the
      applicable premium amount shall be equal to two percent
      (2%).  Interest on amounts held in the cash portion of a
      Participant s deferral account under the Executive Deferral Program shall
      be credited quarterly, at the end of each calendar quarter, based on the
      actual average ten (10) year U.S. Treasury Note rate (and if applicable,
      any premium adjustment) for the prior calendar
  quarter. 

(b)      

Earnings
      on Share Unit Portion of Deferral Account  .   The
      deferred AT T share unit portion of each Participant s deferral
      account under the Executive Deferral Program shall be credited on each
      dividend payment date for AT T Common Stock with an amount equal to
      the dividend payment on the number of shares of AT T Common Stock that
      is equal to the number of AT T share units credited to the respective
      Participant s deferral account.  That amount is then converted
      to an additional number of deferred AT T share units and credited to
      the respective Participant s deferral account under the Executive Deferral
      Program.  For valuation purposes, the deferred AT T share
      unit portion of a Participant s deferral account under the Executive
      Deferral Program will be indexed to the AT T Share
    Price. 

3.8 

Distributions
      of Deferred Compensation Upon Separation From Service  .  

(a) 

General
      Rule  .   Subject
      to Section 3.8(d), distributions of amounts of Annual Base Salary, Annual
      Bonus, and Long Term Awards deferred under the Executive Deferral Program
      pursuant to a specific deferral election (and any associated Company
      Matching Contributions and earnings) shall be made upon the Participant s
      Separation From Service at a time and in a form elected pursuant to
      Section 3.3 which conforms with the provisions of this Section 3.8, except
      to the extent that the Participant elects to have permissible amounts of
      such deferred compensation paid in the form of an in-service distribution
      pursuant to Section 3.9. 

(b) 

Form
      of Payments  .   An
      Eligible Executive s deferral election that includes an election to
      receive payment of deferred compensation upon the Eligible Executive s
      Separation From Service shall specify whether the deferred compensation to
      which the deferral election applies shall be paid in the form of either
      (i) a single payment; or (ii) annual installments.  If the
      Eligible Executive elects the annual installment payment option, he or she
      shall also specify the number of annual installments to be made, ranging
      between a minimum of two (2) annual installments and a maximum of ten (10)
      annual installments.  If a Participant elects the single payment
      option, the Plan shall make a single payment to the Participant of all
      amounts of compensation (and any associated Company Matching Contributions
      and earnings) credited to the Participant s deferral account for the
      particular Service Period.  If a Participant elects the
      installment payment option, the Plan shall pay to the Participant all
      amounts of compensation (and any associated Company Matching Contributions
      and earnings) credited to the Participant s deferral account for the
      particular Service Period in the specified number of annual installment
      payments. 

(c) 

Medium
      of Payment  .   Under
      either the single payment or the annual installment payment options
      described in Section 3.8(b), (i) the distributable amount credited to the
      cash portion of a Participant s deferral account under the Executive
      Deferral Program attributable to the particular Service Period shall be
      paid in the form of cash; and (ii) the distributable amount credited to
      the AT T share unit portion of a Participant s deferral account under
      the Executive Deferral Program attributable to the particular Service
      Period shall be paid in the form of shares of AT T Common Stock equal
      to the number of AT T share units credited to the AT T share unit
      portion of a Participant s deferral account under the Executive Deferral
      Program. 

(d) 

Timing
      of Payments  .  

(i) 

Single
      Payment Option  .   As
      part of each deferral election that provides for payment of deferred
      compensation upon the Participant s Separation From Service in the form of
      a single payment, the Participant shall specify whether such payment is to
      be made either: 

(A) 

On
      the first day of the calendar quarter that begins six (6) months after the
      calendar quarter during which the Participant incurs a Separation From
      Service with the Employer; or 

(B) 

On
      the first day of the calendar quarter that immediately follows the first
      one-year anniversary of the Participant s Separation From Service with the
      Employer. 

(ii) 

Installment
      Payments  .   As
      part of each deferral election that provides for payment of deferred
      compensation upon the Participant s Separation From Service in the form of
      installment payments, the Participant shall specify whether such payments
      shall commence either: 

(A) 

On
      the first day of the calendar quarter that begins six (6) months after the
      calendar quarter during which the Participant incurs a Separation From
      Service with the Company, with any subsequent annual installment payments
      being made on the first day of the same calendar quarter of each
      subsequent calendar year; or 

(B) 

On
      the first day of the calendar quarter that immediately follows the first
      one-year anniversary of the Participant s Separation From Service with the
      Company, with any subsequent annual installment payments being made on the
      first day of the same calendar quarter of each subsequent calendar
      year. 

3.9            In-Service
Distributions  .  

(a)     

Election
      of In-Service Distributions  .   In
      lieu of making an election for a distribution of deferred compensation
      upon Separation From Service pursuant to Section 3.8, a Participant may,
      as part of his or her deferral election for a particular Service Period,
      elect to receive an in-service distribution.  An in-service
      distribution election must specify (i) a source of the in-service
      distribution; and (ii) an in-service payment
      date.  Pursuant to Section 3.3(e), an in-service distribution
      election which comprises part of a deferral election shall be irrevocable
      once it is received by the
Administrator. 

(b)    

Source
      of In-Service Distribution  .   The
      source of an in-service distribution is limited to either the Annual Base
      Salary (plus any earnings thereon) or the Annual Bonus (plus any earnings
      thereon) which a Participant elects pursuant to Section 3.3 to defer for
      the particular Service Period.  An in-service distribution
      election shall apply to the entire amount of the specified source of
      compensation that is deferred by the Participant for the particular
      Service Period.  Company Matching Contributions made with
      respect to a Participant s deferral of Annual Base Salary or Annual Bonus
      for a Service Period shall not be distributed as part of an in-service
      distribution. 

(c)     

In-Service
      Payment Date  .   An
      election to receive an in-service distribution shall specify a future date
      (referred to as the  in-service payment date ) as of which the in-service
      distribution shall be made.  Such in-service payment shall be at
      least four (4) years but no more than ten (10) years after the date on
      which the deferral election that includes the in-service distribution
      election is made. 

(d)     

Timing
      of In-Service Distribution  .   An
      in-service distribution shall be made to a Participant as soon as
      practicable during the third calendar quarter (July 1 to September 30) of
      the year during which the in-service payment date specified by the
      Participant occurs. 

(e)          

Form
      of Payment  .   All
      in-service distributions shall be made in the form of a lump sum cash
      payment. 

(f)     

Limitation
      on Number of In-Service Distribution Elections  .   A
      Participant may have no more than three (3) in-service distribution
      elections in force under the Executive Deferral Program at
      anytime. 

(g)    

Priority
      of Payment.   In the event that an Eligible Executive has
      a Separation From Service prior to the date indicated in his or her
      in-service distribution election, the Eligible Executive s entire deferred
      compensation under the Plan shall be payable at the time and form as if
      the eligible executive had made a deferral election that provides for
      distribution pursuant to Section 3.8(d)(i)(A) upon a Separation From
      Service. 

3.10            Payments
After Death of Participant  .  

(a)         

Beneficiary
      Election  .   At
      the time an Eligible Executive first enrolls to participate in the
      Executive Deferral Program, the Eligible Executive shall be required to
      make and file a Beneficiary Election with the Administrator (or his or her
      designee).  The Beneficiary Election shall be made in writing on
      such form or forms as the Administrator (or his or her designee) shall
      prescribe.  As part of the Beneficiary Election, the Participant
      shall (i) designate a Beneficiary to receive the distribution of the
      balance of the Participant s deferral account under the Executive Deferral
      Program in the event of the Participant s death; and (ii) specify the
      number of annual installment payments (up to a maximum of five (5)
      payments) through which such account balance is to be made to the
      Participant s Beneficiary.  Such Beneficiary Election shall be
      effective upon the Participant s death.  Prior to death, a
      Participant may change his or her designated Beneficiary (but not the
      specified number of annual installment payments) from time to time
      following the procedures established by the Administrator (or his or her
      designee).  Once a Participant s Beneficiary Election is made,
      the Participant s specification of the number of annual installment
      payments shall be irrevocable.  The designation of a
      Participant s Beneficiary on his or her Beneficiary Election shall be
      irrevocable upon the death of the Participant.  If, for any
      reason, the Administrator (or his or her designee) determines that it does
      not have a valid Beneficiary Election on file at the time of the
      Participant s death, the Participant shall be deemed to have made a
      Beneficiary Election in which the Participant (i) designated his or her
      estate as the Beneficiary; and (ii) specified that his or her deferral
      account under the Executive Deferral Program be paid to the Beneficiary in
      a single payment. 

(b)   

Payments
      to Beneficiary  .   Upon
      the death of a Participant, the first payment of all of the Participant s
      deferral account balance under the Executive Deferral Program shall be
      made to the Participant s Beneficiary during the calendar quarter that
      begins immediately after the calendar quarter during which the
      Participant s death occurs.  If the Participant dies after the
      commencement of payment of his or her deferral account under the Executive
      Deferral Program, the Plan shall pay the remainder of the balance of the
      Participant s account under the Executive Deferral Program to the
      Participant s Beneficiary in the number of payments specified in the
      Participant s Beneficiary Election at such time as when the payments would
      have been paid to the Participant had his or her death not
      occurred.  Any in-service distribution that a Participant may
      have elected pursuant to Section 3.9 but not received prior to the date of
      his or her death shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary during the
      calendar quarter that begins immediately after the calendar quarter during
      which the Participant s death occurs.  If, for any reason, the
      AT T Executive Compensation Department is not notified of the
      Participant s death until after the end of the calendar quarter that
      begins immediately after the calendar quarter during which the
      Participant s death occurs, the first payment of all of the Participant s
      deferral account balance under the Executive Deferral Program and the
      payment of any in-service distribution the Participant had elected but not
      received prior to his or her death shall be made to the Participant s
      Beneficiary within such period of time as may be provided for under the
      provisions of Code Section 409A. 

(c) 

Medium
      of Payment to Beneficiary  .   Amounts
      credited to the cash portion of a Participant s deferral account under the
      Executive Deferral Program shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary
      in the form of cash.  Amounts credited to the AT T share
      unit portion of a Participant s deferral account under the Executive
      Deferral Program shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary in the
      form of shares of AT T Common Stock equal to the number of AT T
      share units credited to the AT T share unit portion of a Participant s
      deferral account under the Executive Deferral
  Program. 

3.11 

Periodic
      Statements to Participants  .   The
      Administrator (or his or her designee) shall deliver a statement to each
      Participant in the Executive Deferral Program each calendar quarter that
      reports with respect to the immediately preceding calendar quarter (i) the
      amount of contributions of the Participant s deferred compensation
      received by the Plan during such calendar quarter; (ii) the amount of
      Company Matching Contributions credited to the Participant s deferral
      account during such calendar quarter; (iii) the amount of interest
      credited to the cash portion of a Participant s deferral account under the
      Executive Deferral Program during such calendar quarter; and (iv) the
      amount of dividends (if any) reinvested in the AT T share unit portion
      of the Participant s  deferral account during such calendar
      quarter. 

3.12 

Impact
      of Participation in Executive Deferral Program  .   The rules
      and procedures for the Executive Deferral Program set forth in this
      Section 3 shall only apply to the Executive Deferral
      Program.  Neither the establishment of the Executive Deferral
      Program nor the rules and procedures for the Executive Deferral Program
      set forth in this Section 3 shall have any bearing or impact on the
      Grandfathered Deferral Program or any Participant s deferral account or
      deferral and distribution elections made thereunder.  An
      Eligible Executive s decision to participate in the Executive Deferral
      Program, and any deferral election made under the Executive Deferral
      Program as a result of such decision to participate, shall not, in any
      way, impact the Eligible Executive s deferral account or deferral and
      distribution elections made under the Grandfathered Deferral
      Program.  A Participant s Beneficiary Election made pursuant to
      Section 3.10 (including his or her designation of a Beneficiary)
      shall be independent of any election as to the
  form 

or number
of payments upon death or any designation of a Beneficiary made by a Participant
for purposes of the Grandfathered Deferral Program. 

3.13 

Delay
      in Deferred Compensation Payments to Specified Employees  .   Notwithstanding
      any other provision of the Plan or the Executive Deferral Program to the
      contrary, if a Participant in the Executive Deferral Program incurs a
      Separation From Service on or after January 1, 2005, and at the time of
      such Separation From Service the Participant is a Specified Employee, no
      payment of deferred compensation from the Participant s deferral account
      under the Executive Deferral Program shall be made to, or with respect to,
      such Participant before the date that is six (6) months after the
      Participant s Separation From Service (or if earlier, the date of the
      Participant s death).  Any payment from a deferral account under
      the Executive Deferral Program that, but for the application of the
      preceding provisions of this Section 3.13, would have been paid to a
      Participant at any time during the first six (6) months after the
      Participant s Separation From Service (or if earlier, the date of the
      Participant s death) shall be accumulated (including any earnings thereon
      credited in accordance with Section 3.7 during the period that payment is
      delayed pursuant to this Section 3.13) and paid to the Participant on the
      first day of the seventh (7 th )
      month following the Participant s Separation From Service.  Any
      payment under the Executive Deferral Program to a Specified Employee not
      scheduled to be made during the first six (6) months after the
      Participant s Separation From Service shall be made at the time or times
      provided for in the Participant s Deferral Election and Section 3.8 or
      Section 3.9, as applicable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
      the event that an Eligible Executive s in-service distribution date occurs
      within six (6) months following his or her Separation From Service, such
      in-service distribution date shall be disregarded and shall be of no force
      or effect. 

3.14 

Prohibition
      on Acceleration of Payments of Deferred Compensation  .   Notwithstanding
      any provision of the Executive Deferral Program as set for the herein to
      the contrary except the provisions of Section 3.15, any acceleration of
      the time or schedule of any payment of deferred compensation under the
      terms of the Executive Deferral Program or the amount of such deferred
      compensation scheduled to be paid under the terms of the Executive
      Deferral Program, shall be prohibited on or after January 1, 2005, unless
      such change to the time, schedule or amount of the deferred compensation
      payment qualifies for an exception established in the federal income tax
      regulations underlying the prohibition on acceleration of deferred
      compensation payments set forth in Code
      Section 409A(a)(3). 

3.15 

Special
      Distribution Provision  .   Notwithstanding
      any provision of the Executive Deferral Program as set forth herein to the
      contrary, in the event that (i) the Internal Revenue Service prevails in a
      claim that all or any portion of a Participant s deferral account under
      the Executive Deferral Program is required to be included in the
      Participant s taxable income for any taxable year of such Participant
      prior to the taxable year during which such amount is otherwise to be
      distributed to him or her due to the Plan s failure to satisfy the
      requirements of Code Section 409A; or (ii) legal counsel satisfactory
      to the Company and the applicable Participant renders an opinion that the
      Internal Revenue Service would likely prevail in such a claim, the
      affected portion of the Participant s deferral account that is required to
      be included in the Participant s taxable income shall be immediately
      distributed to the Participant (or his or her Beneficiary).  For
      purposes of this Section 3.15, the Internal Revenue Service shall be
      deemed to have prevailed in a claim if such claim is upheld by a court of
      final jurisdiction, or if the Company or Participant, based on an opinion
      of legal counsel satisfactory to the Company and the Participant fails to
      appeal a decision of the Internal Revenue Service, or a court of
      applicable jurisdiction, with respect to such claim, to an appropriate
      Internal Revenue Service appeals authority or to a court of higher
      jurisdiction within the appropriate time
period. 

3.16 

Termination
      of Participation in Executive Deferral Program  .   A
      Participant s participation in the Executive Deferral Program shall
      terminate upon the occurrence of the first of any of the following
      events: 

(a) 

The
      death of the Participant; 

(b) 

The
      Participant ceases to have a deferral account balance under the Executive
      Deferral Program; 

(c) 

The
      Board (or its delegate) terminates the Executive Deferral Program pursuant
      to the provisions of Section 5.1;
or 

(d) 

The
      Board (or its delegate) terminates the Plan pursuant to the provisions of
      Section 5.1. 

Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 3.16(b) or Section 3.16(c), an individual who has a
deferral account balance under the Grandfathered Deferral Program shall continue
to be a Participant in the Grandfathered Deferral Program and the Plan until his
or her participation in the Grandfathered Deferral Program also terminates in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.8. 

Section 

      4. 

       Claims and
Appeals  

4.0 

Claims  .   A person
      who believes that he or she is being denied a benefit to which he or she
      is entitled under this Plan (hereinafter referred to as a  Claimant ) may
      file a written request for such benefit with the Executive Compensation
      Administration Department, setting forth his or her claim.  The
      request must be addressed to the AT T Executive Compensation
      Administration Department at its then principal place of
      business. 

4.1 

Claim
      Decision  .   Upon
      receipt of a claim, the AT T Executive Compensation Administration
      Department shall review the claim and provide the Claimant with a written
      notice of its decision within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed
      ninety (90) days, after the claim is received.  If the AT T
      Executive Compensation Administration Department determines that special
      circumstances require an extension of time beyond the initial ninety (90)
      day claim review period, the AT T Executive Compensation
      Administration Department shall notify the Claimant in writing within the
      initial ninety (90) day period and explain the special circumstances that
      require the extension and state the date by which the AT T Executive
      Compensation Administration Department expects to render its decision on
      the claim.  If this notice is provided, the AT T Executive
      Compensation Administration Department may  take up to an
      additional ninety (90) days (for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days
      after receipt of the claim) to render its decision on the
      claim. 

If the
claim is denied by the AT T Executive Compensation Administration
Department, in whole or in part, the AT T Executive Compensation
Administration Department shall provide a written decision using language
calculated to be understood by the Claimant and setting forth:  (i)
the specific reason or reasons for such denial; (ii) specific references to
pertinent provisions of this Plan on which such denial is based; (iii) a
description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant
to perfect his or her claim and an explanation of why such material or such
information is necessary; (iv) a description of the Plan s procedures for review
of denied claims and the steps to be taken if the Claimant wishes to submit the
claim for review; (v)  the time limits for requesting a review of a
denied claim under Section 4.2 and for conducting the review under Section 4.3;
and (vi) a statement of the Claimant s right to bring a civil action under
Section 502(a) of ERISA if the claim is denied following review under Section
4.3. 

4.2 

Request
      for Review  .   Within
      sixty (60) days after the receipt by the Claimant of the written decision
      on the claim provided for in Section 4.1, the Claimant may request in
      writing that the Administrator review the determination of the AT T
      Executive Compensation Administration Department.  Such request
      must be addressed to the Administrator at the address for giving notice to
      the Administrator designated in Section 7.5.  To assist the
      Claimant in deciding whether to request a review of a denied claim or in
      preparing a request for review of a denied claim, a Claimant shall be
      provided, upon written request to the Administrator and free of charge,
      reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other
      information relevant to the claim.  The Claimant or his or her
      duly authorized representative may, but need not, submit a statement of
      the issues and comments in writing, as well as other documents, records or
      other information relating to the claim for consideration by the
      Administrator.  If the Claimant does not request a review of the
      AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department s decision by
      the Administrator within such sixty (60) day period, the Claimant shall be
      barred and estopped from challenging the determination of the AT T
      Executive Compensation Administration
  Department. 

4.3 

Review
      of Decision  .   Within
      sixty (60) days after the Administrator s receipt of a request for review,
      the Administrator will review the decision of the AT T Executive
      Compensation Administration Department.  If the Administrator
      determines that special circumstances require an extension of time beyond
      the initial sixty (60) day review period, the Administrator shall notify
      the Claimant in writing within the initial sixty (60) day period and
      explain the special circumstances that require the extension and state the
      date by which the Administrator expects to render its decision on the
      review of the claim.  If this notice is provided, the
      Administrator may take up to an additional sixty (60) days (for a total of
      one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of the request for review) to
      render its decision on the review of the
claim. 

During
its review of the claim, the Administrator shall: 

(a)   

Take
      into account all comments, documents, records, and other information
      submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether
      such information was submitted or considered in the initial review of the
      claim conducted pursuant to Section
4.1; 

(b)   

Follow
      reasonable procedures to verify that its benefit determination is made in
      accordance with the applicable Plan documents;
  and 

(c)   

Follow
      reasonable procedures to ensure that the applicable Plan provisions are
      applied to the Participant to whom the claim relates in a manner
      consistent with how such provisions have been applied to other
      similarly-situated Participants. 

After
considering all materials presented by the Claimant, the Administrator will
render a decision, written in a manner designed to be understood by the
Claimant.  If the Administrator denies the claim on review, the
written decision will include (i) the specific reasons for the decision;
(ii) specific references to the pertinent provisions of this Plan on which
the decision is based; (iii) a statement that the Claimant is entitled to
receive, upon request to the Administrator and free of charge, reasonable access
to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the
claim; and (iv) a statement of the Claimant s right to bring a civil action
under Section 502(a) of ERISA. 

The
Administrator shall serve as the final review committee under the Plan and shall
have sole and complete discretionary authority to administer, interpret,
construe and apply the Plan provisions, and determine all questions of
administration, interpretation, construction, and application of the Plan,
including questions and determinations of eligibility, entitlement to benefits
and the type, form and amount of any payment of benefits, all in its sole and
absolute discretion. The Committee shall further have the authority to determine
all relevant facts and related issues, and all documents, records and other
information relevant to a claim conclusively for all parties, and in accordance
with the terms of the documents or instruments governing the
Plan.  Decisions by the Administrator shall be conclusive and binding
on all parties and not subject to further review. 

In any
case, a Participant or Beneficiary may have further rights under
ERISA.  The Plan provisions require that Participants or Beneficiary
pursue all claim and appeal rights described in this Section 4 before they seek
any other legal recourse regarding claims for benefits. 

Section 

      5. 

       Amendment and
Termination  

5.0 

Continuation
      of Program  .   The Company
      does not guarantee the continuation of the Plan or any benefits during
      employment or after termination of employment, nor does the Company
      guarantee any specific level of benefits.  Benefits are provided
      under the Plan at the Company s discretion and do not create a contract of
      employment.  Neither the establishment nor the continuance of
      the Plan shall be construed as conferring any legal rights upon any
      Eligible Executive, Participant or other person for continuation of
      employment, nor shall such establishment or continuance interfere with the
      right of the Company to discharge any Eligible Executive, Participant or
      other person without regard to the existence of the Plan.  The
      Company intends to continue the Plan indefinitely; however, the Committee
      (for periods ending prior to the Closing) and the Board or its delegate
      (for periods beginning on or after the Closing) reserve the right to amend
      or terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Section
  5.1. 

5.1 

Amendment
      or Termination  .   The
      Committee (for periods ending prior to the Closing) and the Board or its
      delegate (for periods beginning on or after the Closing) may, at any time,
      amend or terminate the Plan or any underlying program, but such amendment
      or termination shall not adversely affect the rights of any Participant
      without his or her consent, to any benefit under the Plan to which such
      Participant may have previously become entitled prior to the effective
      date of such amendment or termination.  The Executive Vice
      President   Human Resources of AT T Corp. (or his or her successor),
      with the concurrence of the General Counsel of AT T Corp. (or his or
      her successor), shall be authorized to make minor or administrative
      changes to the Plan, as well as amendments required by applicable federal
      or state law (or authorized or made desirable by such
      statutes). 

Section 

      6. 

       Change In
Control  

6.0 

Coverage
      of Individual Deferral Agreements  .   Upon the
      occurrence of a  Change in Control  or a  Potential Change in Control  (as
      those terms are defined in the AT T Corp. Benefits Protection Trust as
      in effect on October 23, 2000), each individual deferral agreement
      (including any individual nonqualified pension arrangement) made between
      an Officer (active or former) and a Participating Company for the deferral
      of compensation, retirement and/or severance benefits (and the deferred
      account balance, if any, under each such agreement) identified by the
      Executive Vice President   Human Resources of AT T Corp. (or his or
      her successor), in his or her discretion, shall be deemed to be a deferred
      compensation obligation under the Plan.  Notwithstanding any
      other provision of the Plan to the contrary, (i) each of the individual
      deferral agreements (including each of the individual nonqualified pension
      arrangements) deemed to be a deferred compensation obligation of the Plan
      pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6.0 shall be treated under
      the Plan in a manner that is consistent with the express terms and
      conditions of the respective individual deferral agreement; and (ii) the
      deferred compensation (including nonqualified pension benefit) entitlement
      of an Officer under the Plan with respect to any such individual deferral
      agreement (including individual nonqualified pension arrangements) shall
      be limited solely to the benefit provided under the express terms and
      conditions of the respective individual deferral
      agreement.  Nothing contained in this Section 6.0 shall entitle
      an Officer to any other deferred compensation benefits under the Plan
      except as expressly provided in the individual deferral agreement
      (including any individual nonqualified pension
    arrangement). 

6.1 

Vesting
      Upon Change in Control  .   Upon the
      occurrence of a  Change in Control  (as defined in the 2004 Incentive
      Program as in effect on May 19, 2004), the portion, if any, of each
      deferred account balance under the Plan (including the deferred account
      balance of any former Officer, the deferred account balance under any
      individual deferral agreement, and the benefits under any individual
      nonqualified pension arrangement deemed pursuant to the provisions of
      Section 6.0 to be an obligation of the Plan), that was not vested
      immediately prior to such  Change in Control , shall become fully
      vested. 

6.2 

Interest
      Crediting After Change in Control  .   After the
      occurrence of a  Change in Control  (as defined in the 2004 Incentive
      Program as in effect on May 19, 2004), the interest credited to a
      deferred account (including the deferred account of any former Officer and
      the deferred account under any individual deferral agreement deemed
      pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.0 to be an obligation of the
      Plan) for any period, to the extent applicable, shall not be less than the
      interest derived under the interest rate formula applicable to such
      deferred account (and used to calculate the interest credited to such
      deferred account) for the interest crediting period immediately prior to
      the occurrence of such  Change in Control  (unless the provisions of any
      individual deferral agreement provide
  otherwise). 

6.3 

Prohibition
      on Deferral of Short-Term Incentive Awards  .   Notwithstanding
      any provision of any Officer s deferral election to the contrary, after
      the occurrence of a  Change in Control  (as defined in the 2004 Incentive
      Program as in effect on May 19, 2004), no payment of any Officer s
      short term incentive award, if any, under the AT T Short Term
      Incentive Plan for the performance year during which such  Change in
      Control  occurs shall be deferred under the
  Plan. 

Section 

      7. 

       General
Provisions  

7.0 

Named
      Fiduciary  .   The
      Administrator is hereby designated as the  named fiduciary  under this
      Plan.  The named fiduciary shall have authority to control and
      manage the operation and administration of this
  Program. 

7.1 

Plan
      Administration  .   The
      Administrator (or his or her designee) shall have authority to establish,
      from time to time, and implement reasonable and necessary procedures for
      the administration of the Plan. 

7.2 

Cooperation
      With Administrator  .   All
      Participants and Beneficiaries shall be required to reasonably cooperate
      with the direction of the Administrator (or his or her designee) with
      respect to the administration of the Plan.  Such cooperation
      shall include (i) timely completion, execution, and return of all
      enrollment forms, deferral election forms, and other administrative forms
      and documents in the manner prescribed by the Administrator; and (ii)
      compliance with such further administrative requirements and conditions as
      may be reasonably established by the Administrator from time to
      time. 

7.3 

Effective
      Date  .   The
      effective date of this amended and restated Plan document is January 1,
      2008, unless otherwise stated
herein. 

7.4 

Calendar
      Year Plan  .   All Plan
      records shall be maintained on a calendar year basis, beginning January 1
      and ending December 31. 

7.5 

Notice
      Under Plan  .   Any notice
      to be given under this Plan shall be in writing and shall be either
      delivered in person or mailed by United States Mail, first-class postage
      pre-paid.  If notice is to be given to the Administrator by
      mail, such notice shall be addressed as indicated below and mailed to the
      Administrator at the following
address: 

AT T
Inc. 

        208 South Akard, Room
2350.06 

      Dallas,
Texas  75202 

      Attention:  AT T
Executive Compensation 

Administration
Department 

If notice
is to be given to a Participant by United States Mail, such notice shall be
addressed using such Participant s address then on file with the AT T
Executive Compensation Department.  Any party may change the address
to which notices shall be mailed by giving written notice of such change of
address. 

7.6 

Binding
      Effect  .   This Plan
      shall be binding upon the Company s successors and assigns, and upon the
      Participants and their Beneficiaries, heirs, executors, and
      administrators. 

7.7 

Pension
      Benefit Plan Under ERISA  .   The Plan is
      intended to constitute an  employee pension benefit plan  within the
      meaning of Section 3(2)(A) of ERISA, covering a select group of management
      or highly compensated employees. 

7.8 

Plan
      Document  .   This Plan
      document is the plan document required by ERISA. The information contained
      herein provides the final and exclusive statement of the terms of the
      Plan.  Unless otherwise authorized by the Board or its delegate,
      no amendment or modification to this Plan shall be effective until reduced
      to writing and adopted pursuant to Section 5.1.  This document
      legally governs the operation of the Plan, and any claim of right or
      entitlement under the Plan shall be determined solely in accordance with
      the provisions of Section 4.  No other evidence, whether written
      or oral, shall be taken into account in determining the right of an
      Eligible Executive, a Participant or a Beneficiary, as applicable, to any
      benefit of any type provided under the
Plan. 

7.9 

Source
      of Funds  .   The amounts
      of compensation deferred under this Plan (and any earnings thereon) shall
      be held in the general funds of the Participating
      Companies.  The Participating Companies shall not be required to
      reserve, or otherwise set aside, funds for the payment of such amounts of
      compensation deferred (or the earnings
thereon). 

7.10 

Prohibition
      on Assignments  .   The rights
      of a Participant or Beneficiary to any deferred amounts of compensation
      deferred under this Plan, plus the additional amounts credited thereon
      pursuant to Section 2.3, Section 2.4(a), Section 2.4(b), Section
      2.4(c), Section 2.4(d), and Section 3.7, shall not be subject to
      assignment by the Participant or any
  Beneficiary. 

7.11 

Governing
      Law  .  To the
      extent not preempted by applicable federal law, the Plan shall be governed
      by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the
      State of Texas (irrespective of the choice of laws principles of the State
      of Texas). 

7.12 

Severability  .   If any
      provision of this Plan or the application thereof to any person or
      circumstance shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
      invalid or unenforceable under any applicable law, such event shall not
      affect or render invalid or unenforceable the remainder of the Plan and
      shall not affect the application of any provision of the Plan to any other
      person or circumstance. 

7.13 

Headings  .   The
      headings and subheadings preceding the Sections of this Plan have been
      inserted solely as a matter of convenience of reference, and shall have no
      force or effect in the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any
      of its provisions. 

7.14 

Construction  .   Whenever
      any words used herein are in the singular form, they shall be construed as
      though they were also used in the plural form in all cases where the
      plural form would apply ( and vice
      versa ).  Pronouns and other words of one gender used
      herein shall be construed to include the other gender as the context
      requires.  The word  or  shall not be exclusive;  may not  is
      prohibitive and not permissive.  The term  earnings  shall refer
      to the amounts of interest and/or dividend equivalents credited to a
      deferral account hereunder pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.3(b),
      Section 2.4(d), and Section 3.7.  The words,  hereof ,  herein ,
       hereunder  and words of similar import shall refer to the entire Plan
      document, and not to any particular Section or paragraph of the Plan
      document, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.  All
      Section references made in this Plan document are to the applicable
      Sections of this Plan document unless otherwise
  specified. 

7.15 

Plan
      to Comply with Section 409A  .  The Plan (other than
      with respect to the Grandfathered Deferral Program) is at all times
      intended to comply with and operate in a manner that is consistent with
      the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  Notwithstanding
      any other provision to the contrary in this Plan, each provision in this
      Plan (other than with respect to the Grandfathered Deferral Program) shall
      be interpreted to permit the deferral of compensation in accordance with
      Section 409A of the Code and any provision that would conflict with such
      requirements shall not be valid or
enforceable. 

</EX-10.HH>

<EX-10.II>
 22
 ex10ii.htm
 2006 INCENTIVE PLAN

ex10ii.htm 

Exhibit
10-ii 

AT T
Inc. 

      2006
Incentive Plan 

Plan
Effective:  May 1, 2006 

      Amended
Through:  June 26, 2008 

AT T
INC. 

      2006
INCENTIVE PLAN 

Article
      1 

Establishment and
      Purpose . 

1.1 

Establishment of the
      Plan .  AT T Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
      "Company" or "AT T"), hereby establishes an incentive compensation
      plan (the "Plan"), as set forth in this
  document. 

1.2 

Purpose of the
      Plan .  The purpose of the Plan is to promote the success
      and enhance the value of the Company by linking the personal interests of
      Participants to those of the Company s shareowners, and by providing
      Participants with an incentive for outstanding
  performance. 

Article
      2 

Definitions .  Whenever
      used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
      below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is
      capitalized: 

(a)                 "Award"
means, individually or collectively, a grant or award under this Plan of Stock
Options, Restricted Stock (including unrestricted Stock), Restricted Stock
Units, Performance Units, or Performance Shares. 

(b)                 "Award
Agreement" means an agreement which may be entered into by each Participant and
the Company, setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted
to Participants under this Plan. 

(c)                 "Board"
or "Board of Directors" means the AT T Board of Directors. 

(d)                 "Cause"
shall mean willful and gross misconduct on the part of an Employee that is
materially and demonstrably detrimental to the Company or any Subsidiary as
determined by the Company in its sole discretion. 

(e)                 "Change
in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any "person" (as such term
is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the shareowners of the
Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the
Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under
said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing
twenty percent (20%) or more of the total voting power represented by the
Company's then outstanding voting securities, or (ii) during any period of two
(2) consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period
constitute the Board of Directors of the Company and any new Director whose
election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's
shareowners was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Directors
then still in office who either were Directors at the beginning of the period or
whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for
any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the consummation of a
merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a
merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by
remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the
surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%)   of the total voting power represented by
the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the shareowners of the
Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement
for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the
Company's assets. 

(f)                 "Code"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time. 

(g)                 "Committee"
means the committee or committees of the Board of Directors given authority to
administer the Plan as provided in Article 3. 

(h)                 "Director"
means any individual who is a member of the AT T Board of
Directors. 

(i)                 "Disability"
shall mean absence of an Employee from work under the relevant Company or
Subsidiary long term disability plan. 

(j)                 "Employee"
means any employee of the Company or of one of the Company's
Subsidiaries.  "Employment" means the employment of an Employee by the
Company or one of its Subsidiaries.  Directors who are not otherwise
employed by the Company shall not be considered Employees under this
Plan. 

(k)                 "Exchange
Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or
any successor Act thereto. 

(l)                 "Exercise
Price" means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant
pursuant to an Option, as determined by the Committee. 

(m)                 "Fair
Market Value" shall mean the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") for a Share on the relevant date, or if such date was not a trading
day, the next preceding trading date, all as determined by the
Company.  A trading day is any day that the Shares are traded on the
NYSE.  In lieu of the foregoing, the Committee may, from time to time,
select any other index or measurement to determine the Fair Market Value of
Shares under the Plan, including but not limited to an average determined over a
period of trading days. 

(n)                 "Insider"
shall mean an Employee who is, on the relevant date, an officer, director, or
ten percent (10%) beneficial owner of the Company, as those terms are defined
under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 

(o)                  Option 
means an option to purchase Shares from AT T. 

(p)                 "Participant"
means an Employee or former Employee who holds an outstanding Award granted
under the Plan. 

(q)                 "Performance
Unit" and "Performance Share" shall each mean an Award granted to an Employee
pursuant to Article 8 herein. 

(r)                 "Plan"
means this 2006 Incentive Plan.  The Plan may also be referred to as
the "AT T 2006 Incentive Plan" or as the "AT T Inc. 2006 Incentive
Plan." 

(s)                 "Retirement"
or to "Retire" shall mean the Participant s Termination of Employment for any
reason other than death, Disability or for Cause, on or after the earlier of the
following dates, or as otherwise provided by the Committee: (1) for Officer
Level Employees (Participants deemed officer level Employees for compensation
purposes as indicated on the records of AT T), the date the Participant is
at least age 55 and has five (5) years of net credited service); or (2) the date
the Participant has attained one of the following combinations of age and
service, except as otherwise indicated below: 

Net
Credited
Service                                                               Age 

                                 10
years or
more                                                                65
or older 

                                 20
years or
more                                                                55
or older 

                                 25
years or
more                                                                50
or older 

                                 30
years or
more                                                                Any
age 

For
purposes of this Plan only, Net Credited Service shall be calculated in the same
manner as  Pension Eligibility Service  under the AT T Pension Benefit Plan
  Nonbargained Program ( Pension Plan ), as that may be amended from time to
time, except that service with an Employer shall be counted as though the
Employer were a  Participating Company  under the Pension Plan and the Employee
was a participant in the Pension Plan. 

(t)                 "Rotational
Work Assignment Company" ("RWAC") shall mean any entity with which AT T Inc.
or any of its Subsidiaries may enter into an agreement to provide an employee
for a rotational work assignment. 

(u)                 "Shares"
or "Stock" means the shares of common stock of the Company. 

(v)   "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation,
partnership, venture or other entity in which AT T holds, directly or
indirectly, a fifty percent (50%) or greater ownership interest.  The
Committee may, at its sole discretion, designate, on such terms and conditions
as the Committee shall determine, any other corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, venture other entity a Subsidiary for purposes of this
Plan.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, Cingular and its
direct or indirect majority-owned subsidiaries shall each be deemed a Subsidiary
so long as AT T holds a direct or indirect twenty five percent (25%) or
greater ownership interest in Cingular Wireless LLC or its
successor. 

(w)                 "Termination
of Employment" or a similar reference shall mean the event where the Employee is
no longer an Employee of the Company or of any Subsidiary, including but not
limited to where the employing company ceases to be a Subsidiary.   With respect to any Award that constitutes a
 nonqualified deferred compensation plan  within the meaning of Section 409A of
the Code,  Termination of Employment  shall mean a  separation from service  as
defined under Section 409A of the Code.  

Article
      3 

Administration . 

3.1 

The
      Committee .  Administration of the Plan shall be as
      follows: 

(a)                 With
respect to Insiders, the Plan and Awards hereunder shall be administered by the
Human Resources Committee of the Board or such other committee as may be
appointed by the Board for this purpose (each of the Human Resources Committee
and such other committee is the "Disinterested Committee"), where each Director
on such Disinterested Committee is a "Non-Employee Director", as that term is
used in Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act (or any successor designation for
determining the committee that may administer plans, transactions or awards
exempt under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act), as that rule may be modified
from time to time. 

(b)                 With
respect to persons who are not Insiders, the Plan and Awards hereunder shall be
administered by each of the Disinterested Committee and such other committee, if
any, to which the Board may delegate such authority (such other Committee shall
be the "Non-Insider Committee"), and each such Committee shall have full
authority to administer the Plan and all Awards hereunder, except as otherwise
provided herein or by the Board.  The Disinterested Committee may,
from time to time, limit the authority of the Non-Insider Committee in any
way.  Any Committee may be replaced by the Board at any
time. 

(c)                 Except
as otherwise indicated from the context, references to the  Committee  in this
Plan shall be to either of the Disinterested Committee or the Non-Insider
Committee. 

3.2 

Authority of the
      Committee .  The Committee shall have complete control
      over the administration of the Plan and shall have the authority in its
      sole discretion to (a) exercise all of the powers granted to it under the
      Plan, (b) construe, interpret and implement the Plan, grant terms and
      grant notices, and all Award Agreements, (c) prescribe, amend and rescind
      rules and regulations relating to the Plan, including rules governing its
      own operations, (d) make all determinations necessary or advisable in
      administering the Plan, (e) correct any defect, supply any omission and
      reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan, (f) amend the Plan to reflect
      changes in applicable law (whether or not the rights of the holder of any
      Award are adversely affected, unless otherwise provided by the Committee),
      (g) grant Awards and determine who shall receive Awards, when such Awards
      shall be granted and the terms and conditions of such Awards, including,
      but not limited to, conditioning the exercise, vesting, payout or other
      term of condition of an Award on the achievement of Performance Goals
      (defined below), (h) unless otherwise provided by the Committee, amend any
      outstanding Award in any respect, not materially adverse to the
      Participant, including, without limitation, to (1) accelerate the time or
      times at which the Award becomes vested, unrestricted or may be exercised
      (and, in connection with such acceleration, the Committee may provide that
      any Shares acquired pursuant to such Award shall be Restricted Shares,
      which are subject to vesting, transfer, forfeiture or repayment provisions
      similar to those in the Participant s underlying Award), (2) accelerate
      the time or times at which shares of Common Stock are delivered under the
      Award (and, without limitation on the Committee s rights, in connection
      with such acceleration, the Committee may provide that any shares of
      Common Stock delivered pursuant to such Award shall be Restricted Shares,
      which are subject to vesting, transfer, forfeiture or repayment provisions
      similar to those in the Grantee s underlying Award), or (3) waive or amend
      any goals, restrictions or conditions applicable such Award, or impose new
      goals, restrictions and (i) determine at any time whether, to what extent
      and under what circumstances and method or methods (1) Awards may be (A)
      settled in cash, shares of Stock, other securities, other Awards or other
      property (in which event, the Committee may specify what other effects
      such settlement will have on the Participant s Award), (B) exercised or
      (C) canceled, forfeited or suspended, (2) Shares, other securities, cash,
      other Awards or other property and other amounts payable with respect to
      an Award may be deferred either automatically or at the election of the
      Participant or of the Committee, or (3) Awards may be settled by the
      Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of its or their
      designees. 

No Award
may be made under the Plan more than ten years after its effective
date. 

References
to determinations or other actions by AT T or the Company, herein, shall
mean actions authorized by the Committee, the Chairman of the Board of AT T,
the Senior Executive Vice President of AT T in charge of Human Resources or
their respective successors or duly authorized delegates, in each case in the
discretion of such person, provided, however, only the Disinterested Committee
may take action with respect to Insiders with regard to granting or determining
the terms of  Awards or other matters that would require the
Disinterested Committee to act in order to comply with Rule 16b-3 promulgated
under the Exchange Act. 

All
determinations and decisions made by AT T pursuant to the provisions of the
Plan and all related orders or resolutions of the Board shall be final,
conclusive, and binding on all persons, including but not limited to the
Company, its stockholders, Employees, Participants, and their estates and
beneficiaries. 

Article
      4 

Shares Subject to the
      Plan . 

4.1 

Number of
      Shares .  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3
      herein, the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall
      not exceed 90 million Shares.  The Shares granted under this
      Plan may be either authorized but unissued or reacquired
      Shares.  The Disinterested Committee shall have full discretion
      to determine the manner in which Shares available for grant are counted in
      this Plan. 

4.2 

Share
      Accounting .  Without limiting the discretion of the
      Committee under this section, unless otherwise provided by the
      Disinterested Committee, the following rules will apply for purposes of
      the determination of the number of Shares available for grant under the
      Plan or compliance with the foregoing
limits: 

(a)                 If
an outstanding Award for any reason expires or is terminated or canceled without
having been exercised or settled in full, or if Shares acquired pursuant to an
Award subject to forfeiture or repurchase are forfeited or repurchased by the
Company for an amount not greater than the Participant's original purchase
price, the Shares allocable to the terminated portion of such Award or such
forfeited or repurchased Shares shall again be available for issuance under the
Plan. 

(b)                 Shares
shall not be deemed to have been issued pursuant to the Plan with respect to any
portion of an Award that is settled in cash, other than an Option. 

(c)                 Shares
withheld or reacquired by the Company in satisfaction of tax withholding
obligations under a Restricted Stock Award shall not again be available for
issuance under the Plan; however Shares withheld for tax withholding from other
awards shall be available for issuance again. 

(d)                 If
the exercise price of an Option is paid by tender to the Company, or attestation
to the ownership, of Shares owned by the Participant, or an Option is settled
without the payment of the exercise price, the number of shares available for
issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross number of shares for which
the Option is exercised. 

4.3 

Adjustments in
      Authorized Plan Shares .  In the event of any merger,
      reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, separation, liquidation,
      Stock dividend, split-up, Share combination, or other change in the
      corporate structure of the Company affecting the Shares, an adjustment
      shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered
      under the Plan (including but not limited to individual limits), and in
      the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding
      Awards granted under the Plan, and/or the number of outstanding Options,
      Shares of Restricted Stock, and Performance Shares (and Performance Units
      and other Awards whose value is based on a number of Shares) constituting
      outstanding Awards, as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable
      by the Disinterested Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent
      dilution or enlargement of rights. 

Article
      5 

Eligibility and
      Participation . 

5.1 

Eligibility .  All
      management Employees are eligible to receive Awards under this
      Plan. 

5.2 

Actual
      Participation .  Subject to the provisions of the Plan,
      the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible Employees,
      those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and
      amount of each Award.  No Employee is entitled to receive an
      Award unless selected by the
Committee. 

Article
      6 

Stock
      Options . 

6.1 

Grant of
      Options .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the
      Plan, Options may be granted to eligible Employees at any time and from
      time to time, and under such terms and conditions, as shall be determined
      by the Committee. In addition, the Committee may, from time to time,
      provide for the payment of dividend equivalents on Options, prospectively
      and/or retroactively, on such terms and conditions as the Committee may
      require.  The Committee shall have discretion in determining the
      number of Shares subject to Options granted to each Employee; provided,
      however, that no single Employee may receive Options under this Plan for
      more than one percent (1%) of the Shares approved for issuance under this
      Plan during any calendar year.  The Committee may not grant
      Incentive Stock Options, as described in Section 422 of the Code, under
      this Plan. 

6.2 

Form of
      Issuance .  Each Option grant may be issued in the form of
      an Award Agreement and/or may be recorded on the books and records of the
      Company for the account of the Participant. If an Option is not issued in
      the form of an Award Agreement, then the Option shall be deemed granted as
      determined by the Committee.  The terms and conditions of an
      Option shall be set forth in the Award Agreement, in the notice of the
      issuance of the grant, or in such other documents as the Committee shall
      determine.  Such terms and conditions shall include the Exercise
      Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which an Option
      pertains (unless otherwise provided by the Committee, each Option may be
      exercised to purchase one Share), and such other provisions as the
      Committee shall determine. 

6.3 

Exercise
      Price .  Unless a greater Exercise Price is determined by
      the Committee, the Exercise Price for each Option Awarded under this Plan
      shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a
      Share on the date the Option is
granted. 

6.4       

Duration of
      Options .  Each Option shall expire at such time as the
      Committee shall determine at the time of grant (which duration may be
      extended by the Committee); provided, however, that no Option shall be
      exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date of its
      grant.  In the event the Committee does not specify the
      expiration date of an Option, then such Option will expire on the tenth
      (10 th )
      anniversary date of its grant, except as otherwise provided
      herein. 

6.5 

Vesting of
      Options .  Options shall vest at such times and under such
      terms and conditions as determined by the Committee; provided, however,
      unless another vesting period is provided by the Committee at or before
      the grant of an Option, one-third of the Options will vest on each of the
      first three anniversaries of the grant; if one Option remains after
      equally dividing the grant by three, it will vest on the first anniversary
      of the grant, if two Options remain, then one will vest on each of the
      first two anniversaries.  The Committee shall have the right to
      accelerate the vesting of any Option; however, the Chairman of the Board
      or the Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources, or their
      respective successors, or such other persons designated by the Committee,
      shall have the authority to accelerate the vesting of Options for any
      Participant who is not an Insider. 

6.6 

Exercise of
      Options .  Options granted under the Plan shall be
      exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and
      conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not
      be the same for each grant or for each Participant. Exercises of Options
      may be effect only on days and during the hours that the New York Stock
      Exchange is open for regular trading.  The Company may change or
      limit the times or days Options may be exercised.  If an Option
      expires on a day or at a time when exercises are not permitted, then the
      Options may be exercised no later than the immediately preceding date and
      time that the Options were
exercisable. 

Options
shall be exercised by providing notice to the designated agent selected by the
Company (if no such agent has been designated, then to the Company), in the
manner and form determined by the Company, which notice shall be irrevocable,
setting forth the exact number of Shares with respect to which the Option is
being exercised and including with such notice payment of the Exercise
Price.  When Options have been transferred, the Company or its
designated agent may require appropriate documentation that the person or
persons exercising the Option, if other than the Participant, has the right to
exercise the Option.  No Option may be exercised with respect to a
fraction of a Share. 

6.7 

Payment .  Unless
      otherwise determined by the Committee, the Exercise Price shall be paid in
      full at the time of exercise.  No Shares shall be issued or
      transferred until full payment has been
  received. 

Payment
may be made: 

(a)                 in
cash, or 

(b)                 unless
otherwise provided by the Committee at any time, and subject to such additional
terms and conditions and/or modifications as the Committee or the Company may
impose from time to time, and further subject to suspension or termination of
this provision by the Committee or Company at any time, by: 

(i) 

delivery
      of Shares owned by the Participant in partial (if in partial payment, then
      together with cash) or full payment; provided, however, as a condition to
      paying any part of the Exercise Price in Shares, at the time of exercise
      of the Option, the Participant must establish to the satisfaction of the
      Company that the Stock tendered to the Company has been held by the
      Participant for a minimum of six (6) months preceding the tender;
      or 

(ii) 

if
      the Company has designated a stockbroker to act as the Company s agent to
      process Option exercises, issuance of an exercise notice together with
      instructions to such stockbroker irrevocably instructing the
      stockbroker:  (A) to immediately sell (which shall include an
      exercise notice that becomes effective upon execution of a sale order) a
      sufficient portion of the Shares to be received from the Option exercise
      to pay the Exercise Price of the Options being exercised and the required
      tax withholding, and (B) to deliver on the settlement date the portion of
      the proceeds of the sale equal to the Exercise Price and tax withholding
      to the Company.  In the event the stockbroker sells any Shares
      on behalf of a Participant, the stockbroker shall be acting solely as the
      agent of the Participant, and the Company disclaims any responsibility for
      the actions of the stockbroker in making any such sales.  No
      Shares shall be issued until the settlement date and until the proceeds
      (equal to the Option Price and tax withholding) are paid to the
      Company. 

If
payment is made by the delivery of Shares, the value of the Shares delivered
shall be equal to the then most recent Fair Market Value of the Shares
established before the exercise of the Option. 

Restricted
Stock may not be used to pay the Exercise Price. 

6.8 

Termination of
      Employment .  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee,
      the following limitations on exercise of Options shall apply upon
      Termination of Employment: 

(a)         Termination by Death or
Disability .  In the event of the Participant's Termination of
Employment by reason of death or Disability, all outstanding Options granted to
that Participant shall immediately vest as of the date of Termination of
Employment and may be exercised, if at all, no more than three (3) years from
the date of the Termination of Employment, unless the Options, by their terms,
expire earlier.  However, in the event the Participant was eligible to
Retire at the time of Termination of Employment, notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Options may be exercised, if at all, no more than five (5) years from the
date of the Termination of Employment, unless the Options, by their terms,
expire earlier. 

(b)       Termination for
Cause .  In the event of the Participant's Termination of
Employment by the Company for Cause, all outstanding Options held by the
Participant shall immediately be forfeited to the Company and no additional
exercise period shall be allowed, regardless of the vested status of the
Options. 

(c) 

Retirement or Other
      Termination of Employment .  In the event of the
      Participant's Termination of Employment for any reason other than the
      reasons set forth in (a) or (b),
above: 

(i) 

If
      upon the Participant's Termination of Employment, the Participant is
      eligible to Retire (and if the Participant is an officer level employee
      for compensation purposes as determined by AT T, the employee must
      also be age 55 or older at Termination of Employment), then all
      outstanding unvested Options granted to that Participant shall immediately
      vest as of the date of the Participant's Termination of
      Employment; 

(ii) 

All
      outstanding Options which are vested as of the effective date of
      Termination of Employment may be exercised, if at all, no more than five
      (5) years from the date of Termination of Employment if the Participant is
      eligible to Retire, or three (3) months from the date of the Termination
      of Employment if the Participant is not eligible to Retire, as the case
      may be, unless in either case the Options, by their terms, expire earlier;
      and 

(iii) 

In
      the event of the death of the Participant after Termination of Employment,
      this paragraph (c) shall still apply and not paragraph (a),
      above. 

(d)                  Options not Vested at
Termination .  Except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (c)(i),
above, all Options held by the Participant which are not vested on or before the
effective date of Termination of Employment shall immediately be forfeited to
the Company (and the Shares subject to such forfeited Options shall once again
become available for issuance under the Plan). 

(e)                 Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, establish different,
or waive, terms and conditions pertaining to the effect of Termination of
Employment on Options, whether or not the Options are outstanding, but no such
modification shall shorten the terms of Options issued prior to such
modification or otherwise be materially adverse to the Participant. 

6.9 

Employee
      Transfers .  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of
      employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its
      Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company or a
      Subsidiary and a RWAC, to the extent the period of employment at a RWAC is
      equal to or less than five (5) years, shall not be deemed a Termination of
      Employment.  Provided, however, for purposes of this Article 6,
      termination of employment with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer to the
      Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a Termination of
      Employment as that term is used herein.  Similarly, termination
      of an entity s status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall be deemed a
      Termination of Employment of any Participants employed by such Subsidiary
      or RWAC. 

6.10 

Restrictions on
      Exercise and Transfer of Options .  Unless otherwise
      provided by the Committee: 

(a)                 During
the Participant s lifetime, the Participant s Options shall be exercisable only
by the Participant or by the Participant s guardian or legal
representative.  After the death of the Participant, except as
otherwise provided by AT T s Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, an
Option shall only be exercised by the holder thereof (including, but not limited
to, an executor or administrator of a decedent s estate) or his or her guardian
or legal representative. 

(b)                 No
Option shall be transferable except: (i) in the case of the Participant, only
upon the Participant s death and in accordance with the AT T Rules for
Employee Beneficiary Designations; and (ii) in the case of any holder after the
Participant s death, only by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution. 

6.11

Competition and
      Solicitation .  In the event a Participant directly or
      indirectly, engages in competitive activity, or has become associated
      with, employed by, controls, or renders service to any business that is
      engaged in competitive activity, with (i) the Company, (ii) any
      Subsidiary, or (iii) any business in which any of the foregoing have a
      substantial interest, or if the Participant attempts, directly or
      indirectly, to induce any employee of the Company or a Subsidiary to be
      employed or perform services elsewhere without the permission of the
      Company, then the Company may (i) cancel any Option granted to such
      Participant, whether or not vested, in whole or in part; and/or (ii)
      rescind any exercise of the Participant s Options that occurred on or
      after that date six months prior to engaging in such activity, in which
      case the Participant shall pay the Company the gain realized or received
      upon such exercise of Options.  "Has become associated with"
      shall include, among other things, beneficial ownership of 1/10 of 1% or
      more of a business engaged in competitive activity.  The
      determination of whether a Participant has engaged in any such activity
      and whether to cancel Options and/or rescind the exercise of Options shall
      be made by AT T, and in each case such determination shall be final,
      conclusive and binding on all
persons. 

Article
      7 

Restricted
      Stock . 

7.1 

Grant of Restricted
      Stock .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan,
      the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of
      Restricted Stock to eligible Employees in such amounts and upon such terms
      and conditions as the Committee shall determine.  In addition to
      any other terms and conditions imposed by the Committee, vesting of
      Restricted Stock may be conditioned upon the achievement of Performance
      Goals in the same manner as provided in Section 8.4, herein, with respect
      to Performance Shares.  No Employee may be awarded, in any
      calendar year, a number of Shares in the form of Restricted Stock (or
      Restricted Stock Units) exceeding one percent (1%) of the Shares approved
      for issuance under this Plan. 

7.2 

Restricted Stock
      Agreement .  The Committee may require, as a condition to
      receiving a Restricted Stock Award, that the Participant enter into a
      Restricted Stock Award Agreement, setting forth the terms and conditions
      of the Award.  In lieu of a Restricted Stock Award Agreement,
      the Committee may provide the terms and conditions of an Award in a notice
      to the Participant of the Award, on the Stock certificate representing the
      Restricted Stock, in the resolution approving the Award, or in such other
      manner as it deems appropriate. 

7.3 

Transferability .  Except
      as otherwise provided in this Article 7, and subject to any additional
      terms in the grant thereof, Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may
      not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
      hypothecated until fully vested. 

7.4 

Restrictions .  The
      Restricted Stock shall be subject to such vesting terms, including the
      achievement of Performance Goals (as described in Section 8.4), as may be
      determined by the Committee.  Unless otherwise provided by the
      Committee, to the extent Restricted Stock is subject to any condition to
      vesting, if such condition or conditions are not satisfied by the time the
      period for achieving such condition has expired, such Restricted Stock
      shall be forfeited. The Committee may impose such other conditions and/or
      restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the
      Plan as it may deem advisable including but not limited to a requirement
      that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of
      Restricted Stock and/or restrictions under applicable Federal or state
      securities laws; and may legend the certificates representing Restricted
      Stock to give appropriate notice of such restrictions.  The
      Committee may also grant Restricted Stock without any terms or conditions
      in the form of vested Stock Awards. 

The
Company shall also have the right to retain the certificates representing Shares
of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession until such time as the Shares
are fully vested and all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such
Shares have been satisfied. 

7.5 

Removal of
      Restrictions .  Except as otherwise provided in this
      Article 7 or otherwise provided in the grant thereof, Shares of Restricted
      Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall
      become freely transferable by the Participant after completion of all
      conditions to vesting, if any.  However, the Committee, in its
      sole discretion, shall have the right to immediately vest the shares and
      waive all or part of the restrictions and conditions with regard to all or
      part of the Shares held by any Participant at any
  time. 

7.6 

Voting Rights,
      Dividends and Other Distributions .  Participants holding
      Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting
      rights and shall receive all regular cash dividends paid with respect to
      such Shares.  Except as provided in the following sentence, in
      the sole discretion of the Committee, other cash dividends and other
      distributions paid to Participants with respect to Shares of Restricted
      Stock may be subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Shares
      of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid.  If
      any such dividends or distributions are paid in Shares, the Shares shall
      be subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Shares of
      Restricted Stock with respect to which they were
  paid. 

7.7 

Termination of
      Employment Due to Death or Disability .  In the event of
      the Participant's Termination of Employment by reason of death or
      Disability, all restrictions imposed on outstanding Shares of Restricted
      Stock held by the Participant shall immediately lapse and the Restricted
      Stock shall immediately become fully vested as of the date of Termination
      of Employment. 

7.8 

Termination of
      Employment for Other Reasons .  Unless otherwise provided
      by the Committee, in the event of the Participant's Termination of
      Employment for any reason other than those specifically set forth in
      Section 7.7 herein, all Shares of Restricted Stock held by the Participant
      which are not vested as of the effective date of Termination of Employment
      immediately shall be forfeited and returned to the
  Company. 

7.9 

Employee
      Transfers .  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of
      employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its
      Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company or a
      Subsidiary and a RWAC, to the extent the period of employment at a RWAC is
      equal to or less than five (5) years, shall not be deemed a Termination of
      Employment.  Provided, however, for purposes of this Article,
      termination of employment with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer to the
      Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a Termination of
      Employment as that term is used herein.  Similarly, termination
      of an entity s status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall be deemed a
      Termination of Employment of any Participants employed by such Subsidiary
      or RWAC. 

7.10 

Restricted Stock
      Units.   In lieu of or in addition to Restricted Stock,
      the Committee may grant Restricted Stock Units ( Units ) under such terms
      and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee.  Units
      shall otherwise be subject to the same terms and conditions under this
      Plan as Restricted Stock (including but not limited to Change in Control
      provisions), except that upon vesting, the Participant holding such Units
      shall receive Shares (or cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the number
      of Shares) equal to the number of such Units  no later than ninety (90) days after the date of
      such vesting.  Units shall have no voting rights, and Units shall
      not receive dividends, but shall, unless otherwise provided by the
      Committee, receive dividend equivalents at the time and at the same rate
      per Unit as dividends are paid per Share with the same record and pay
      dates. 

Article
      8 

Performance Units and
      Performance Shares . 

8.1 

Grants of Performance
      Units and Performance Shares .  Subject to the terms of
      the Plan, Performance Shares and Performance Units may be granted to
      eligible Employees at any time and from time to time, as determined by the
      Committee.  The Committee shall have complete discretion in
      determining the number of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares
      Awarded to each Participant and the terms and conditions of each such
      Award. 

8.2 

Value of Performance
      Shares and Units . 

(a)                 A
Performance Share is equivalent in value to a Share.  In any calendar
year, no individual may be awarded Performance Shares having a potential payout
of Shares exceeding one percent (1%) of the Shares approved for issuance under
this Plan. 

(b)                 A
Performance Unit shall be equal in value to a fixed dollar amount determined by
the Committee.  In any calendar year, no individual may be Awarded
Performance Units having a potential payout equivalent exceeding the Fair Market
Value, as of the date of  granting the Award, of one percent (1%) of
the Shares approved for issuance under this Plan.  The number of
Shares equivalent to the potential payout of a Performance Unit shall be
determined by dividing the maximum cash payout of the Award by the Fair Market
Value per Share on the effective date of the grant.  The Committee may
denominate a Performance Unit Award in dollars instead of Performance
Units.  A Performance Unit Award may be referred to as a "Key
Executive Officer Short Term Award." 

8.3 

Performance
      Period .  The Performance Period for Performance Shares
      and Performance Units is the period over which the Performance Goals are
      measured.  The Performance Period is set by the Committee for
      each Award; however, in no event shall an Award have a Performance Period
      of less than one year. 

8.4 

Performance
      Goals .  For each Award of Performance Shares or
      Performance Units, the Committee shall establish (and may establish for
      other Awards) performance objectives ("Performance Goals") for the
      Company, its Subsidiaries, and/or divisions of any of foregoing, using the
      Performance Criteria and other factors set forth in (a) and (b),
      below.  It may also use other criteria or factors in
      establishing Performance Goals in addition to or in lieu of the
      foregoing.  A Performance Goal may be stated as an absolute
      value or as a value determined relative to an index, budget, prior period,
      similar measures of a peer group of other companies or other standard
      selected by the Committee.  Performance Goals shall include
      payout tables, formulas or other standards to be used in determining the
      extent to which the Performance Goals are met, and, if met, the number of
      Performance Shares and/or Performance Units which would be converted into
      Stock and/or cash (or the rate of such conversion) and distributed to
      Participants in accordance with Section 8.6.  Unless previously
      canceled or reduced, Performance Shares and Performance Units which may
      not be converted because of failure in whole or in part to satisfy the
      relevant Performance Goals or for any other reason shall be canceled at
      the time they would otherwise be distributable.  When the
      Committee desires an Award of Performance Shares, Performance Units,
      Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units to qualify under Section 162(m)
      of the Code, as amended, the Committee shall establish the Performance
      Goals for the respective Award prior to or within 90 days of the beginning
      of the Performance Period relating to such Performance Goal, and not later
      than after 25% of such period has elapsed.  For all other
      Awards, the Performance Goals must be established before the end of the
      respective Performance Period. 

(a)                 The
Performance Criteria which the Committee is authorized to use, in its sole
discretion, are any of the following criteria or any combination thereof,
including but not limited to the offset against each other of any combination of
the following criteria: 

(1) 

Financial
      performance of the Company (on a consolidated basis), of one or more of
      its Subsidiaries, and/or a division of any of the
      foregoing.  Such financial performance may be based on net
      income, Value Added (after-tax cash operating profit less depreciation and
      less a capital charge), EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes,
      depreciation and amortization), revenues, sales, expenses, costs, gross
      margin, operating margin, profit margin, pre-tax profit, market share,
      volumes of a particular product or service or category thereof, including
      but not limited to the product's life cycle (for example, products
      introduced in the last 2 years), number of customers or subscribers,
      number of items in service, including but not limited to every category of
      access or other telecommunication or television lines, return on net
      assets, return on assets, return on capital, return on invested capital,
      cash flow, free cash flow, operating cash flow,  operating
      revenues, operating expenses, and/or operating
  income. 

(2) 

Service
      performance of the Company (on a consolidated basis), of one or more of
      its Subsidiaries, and/or of a division of any of the
      foregoing.  Such service performance may be based upon measured
      customer perceptions of service quality. Employee satisfaction, employee
      retention, product development, completion of a joint venture or other
      corporate transaction, completion of an identified special project, and
      effectiveness of management. 

(3) 

The
      Company s Stock price, return on stockholders  equity, total stockholder
      return (Stock price appreciation plus dividends, assuming the reinvestment
      of dividends), and/or earnings per
Share. 

(4) 

Impacts
      of acquisitions, dispositions, or restructurings, on any of the
      foregoing. 

(b)                 Except
to the extent otherwise provided by the Committee in full or in part, if any of
the following events occur during a Performance Period and would directly affect
the determination of whether or the extent to which Performance Goals are met,
the effects of such events shall be disregarded in any such computation: changes
in accounting principles; extraordinary items; changes in tax laws affecting net
income and/or Value Added; natural disasters, including but not limited to
floods, hurricanes, and earthquakes; and intentionally inflicted damage to
property which directly or indirectly damages the property of the Company or its
Subsidiaries.  No such adjustment shall be made to the extent such
adjustment would cause the Award to fail to satisfy the performance based
exemption of Section 162(m) of the Code. 

8.5     

Dividend Equivalents
      on Performance Shares .  Unless reduced or eliminated by
      the Committee, a cash payment in an amount equal to the dividend payable
      on one Share will be made to each Participant for each Performance Share
      held by a Participant on the record date for the
  dividend. 

8.6 

Form and Timing of
      Payment of Performance Units and Performance Shares .  As
      soon as practicable  (but in no event more
      than ninety (90) days)  after the applicable Performance Period has
      ended and all other conditions (other than Committee actions) to
      conversion and distribution of a Performance Share and/or Performance Unit
      Award have been satisfied (or, if applicable, at such other time
      determined by the Committee at or before the establishment of the
      Performance Goal), the Committee shall determine whether and the extent to
      which the Performance Goals were met for the applicable Performance Units
      and Performance Shares.  If Performance Goals have been met,
      then the number of Performance Units and Performance Shares to be
      converted into Stock and/or cash and distributed to the Participants shall
      be determined in accordance with the Performance Goals for such Awards,
      subject to any limits imposed by the Committee.  Unless the
      Participant has elected to defer all or part of his Performance Units or
      Performance Shares as provided in Article 10, herein, payment of
      Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be made in a single lump
      sum, as soon as reasonably administratively possible following the
      determination of the number of Shares or amount of cash to which the
      Participant is entitled.  Performance Units will be distributed
      to Participants in the form of cash.  Performance Shares will be
      distributed to Participants in the form of 50% Stock and 50% Cash, or at
      the Participant s election, 100% Stock or 100% Cash. In the event the
      Participant is no longer an Employee at the time of the distribution, then
      the distribution shall be 100% in cash, provided the Participant may elect
      to take 50% or 100% in Stock.  At any time prior to the
      distribution of the Performance Shares and/or Performance Units (or if
      distribution has been deferred, then prior to the time the Awards would
      have been distributed), unless otherwise provided by the Committee or
      prohibited by this Plan (such as in the case of a Change in Control), the
      Committee shall have the authority to reduce or eliminate the number of
      Performance Units or Performance Shares to be converted and distributed,
      or to cancel any part or all of a grant or award of Performance Units or
      Performance Shares, or to mandate the form in which the Award shall be
      paid (i.e., in cash, in Stock or both, in any proportions determined by
      the Committee). 

Unless
otherwise provided by the Committee, any election to take a greater amount of
cash or Stock with respect to Performance Shares must be made in the calendar
year prior to the calendar year in which the Performance Shares are distributed
(or if distribution has been deferred, then in the year prior to the year the
Performance Shares would have been distributed absent such
deferral). 

For the
purpose of converting Performance Shares into cash and distributing the same to
the holders thereof (or for determining the amount of cash to be deferred), the
value of a Performance Share shall be the Fair Market Value of a Share on the
date the Committee authorizes the payout of Awards.  Performance
Shares to be distributed in the form of Stock will be converted at the rate of
one (1) Share per Performance Share. 

8.7 

Termination of
      Employment Due to Death or Disability .  In the event of
      the Participant's Termination of Employment by reason of death or
      Disability, the Participant shall receive a lump sum payout of all
      outstanding Performance Units and Performance Shares calculated as if all
      unfinished Performance Periods had ended with 100% of the Performance
      Goals achieved, payable in the year following the date of Termination of
      Employment. 

8.8 

Termination of
      Employment for Other Reasons .  Unless the Committee
      determines otherwise, in the event of the Participant's Termination of
      Employment for other than a reason set forth in Section 8.7 (and other
      than for Cause), if the Participant is not Retirement eligible at
      Termination of Employment, then upon Termination, the number of the
      Participant s Performance Units and/or Performance Shares shall be reduced
      at the time of the Termination of Employment so that the Participant may
      receive no more than a prorated payout of all Performance Units and
      Performance Shares granted, based on the number of months the Participant
      worked at least one day during the respective Performance Period divided
      by the number of months in the Performance Period , to be paid, if at all, at the same time and
      under the same terms that such outstanding Performance Units and
      Performance Shares would otherwise be
  paid . 

8.9 

Termination of
      Employment for Cause .  In the event of the Termination of
      Employment of a Participant by the Company for Cause, all Performance
      Units and Performance Shares shall be forfeited by the Participant to the
      Company. 

8.10 

Nontransferability .  Performance
      Units and Performance Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged,
      assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than in accordance
      with the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary
    Designations. 

Article
      9 

Beneficiary
      Designation .  In the event of the death of a Participant,
      distributions or Awards under this Plan, other than Restricted Stock,
      shall pass in accordance with the AT T Rules for Employee Beneficiary
      Designations, as the same may be amended from time to
      time.  Beneficiary Designations of a Participant received by
      AT T prior to November 16, 2001, that were applicable to awards under
      the 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan will also apply to awards under this
      Plan unless and until the Participant provides to the contrary in
      accordance with the procedures set forth in such
  Rules. 

Article
      10 

Deferrals .   Unless
      otherwise provided by the Committee, a Participant may, as permitted by
      the Company, defer all or part of Awards made under this Plan in
      accordance with and subject to the terms of such plans so long as such
      deferral is determined by the Company to be consistent in all respects
      with Section 409A of the Code. 

Article
      11 

Employee
      Matters . 

11.1 

Employment Not
      Guaranteed .  Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or
      limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate
      any Participant's Employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant
      any right to continue in the employ of the Company or one of its
      Subsidiaries. 

11.2 

Participation .  No
      Employee shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under
      this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future
      Award. 

Article
      12 

Change in
      Control . 

Unless
the Committee provides otherwise prior to the grant of an Award, upon the
occurrence of a Change in Control, the following shall apply to such
Award: 

(a)                 Any
and all Options granted hereunder to a Participant immediately shall become
vested and exercisable upon the Termination of Employment of the Participant by
the Company or by the Participant for  Good Reason  

(b)                 Any
Restriction Periods and all restrictions imposed on Restricted Stock shall lapse
and they shall immediately become fully vested upon the Termination of
Employment of the Participant by the Company or by the Participant for  Good
Reason  

(c)                 Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, the payout of Performance Units and
Performance Shares shall be determined exclusively by the attainment of the
Performance Goals established by the Committee, which may not be modified after
the Change in Control, and AT T shall not have the right to reduce the
Awards for any other reason; 

(d)                 For
purposes of this Plan,  Good Reason  means in connection with a termination of
employment by a Participant within two (2) years following a Change in Control,
(a)  a material  adverse alteration in the
Participant s position or in the nature or status of the Participant s
responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in
Control, or (b) any  material  reduction in
the Participant s base salary rate or target annual bonus, in each case as in
effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, or (c) the relocation
of  the Participant s principal place of employment to a location that
is more than fifty (50) miles from the location where the Participant was
principally employed at the time of the Change in Control  or materially increases the time of the Participant s
commute as compared to the Participant s commute at the time of the Change in
Control  (except for required travel on the Company s business to an
extent substantially consistent with the Participant s customary business travel
obligations in the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in
Control). 

In order to invoke a Termination of Employment for Good
Reason, a Participant must provide written notice to AT T or the Employer
with respect to which the Participant is employed or providing services of the
existence of one or more of the conditions constituting Good Reason within
ninety (90) days following the Participant s knowledge of the initial existence
of such condition or conditions, specifying in reasonable detail the conditions
constituting Good Reason, and AT T shall have thirty (30) days following
receipt of such written notice (the  Cure Period ) during which it may remedy
the condition.  In the event that AT T or the Employer fails to
remedy the condition constituting Good Reason during the applicable Cure Period,
the Participant s  separation from service  (within the meaning of Section 409A
of the Code) must occur, if at all, within two (2) years following such Cure
Period in order for such termination as a result of such condition to constitute
a Termination of Employment for Good Reason.     

Article
      13 

Amendment,
      Modification, and
Termination . 

13.1 

Amendment,
      Modification, and Termination .  The Board or the
      Disinterested Committee may at any time and from time to time, alter or
      amend the Plan or any Award in whole or in part or suspend or terminate
      the Plan in whole or in part. 

13.2 

Awards Previously
      Granted .  No termination, amendment, or modification of
      the Plan or any Award shall adversely affect in any material way any Award
      previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the
      Participant holding such Award; provided, however, that any such
      modification made for the purpose of complying with Section 409A of the
      Code may be made by the Company without the consent of any
      Participant 

13.3 

Delay in
      Payment.   To the extent required in order to avoid the
      imposition of any interest and/or additional tax under Section
      409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code, any  amount that
      is considered deferred compensation under the Plan or Agreement and that
      is required to be postponed pursuant to Section 409A of the Code,following
      the a Participant s  Termination of Employment  shall  be delayed for six months if a
      Participant is deemed to be a  specified employee  as defined in Section
      409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code ; provided that,
      if the Participant dies during the postponement period prior to the
      payment of the postponed amount, the amounts withheld on account of
      Section 409A shall be paid to the executor or administrator of the
      decedent s estate within 60 days following the date of his death. A
       Specified Employee  means any Participant who is a  key employee  (as
      defined in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof),
      as determined by AT T in accordance with its uniform policy with
      respect to all arrangements subject to Code Section 409A, based upon the
      twelve (12) month period ending on each December 31st (such twelve (12)
      month period is referred to below as the  identification
      period ).  All Participants who are determined to be key
      employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5)
      thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Specified
      Employees for purposes of the Plan during the twelve (12) month period
      that begins on the first day of the 4th month following the close of such
      identification period . 

Article
      14 

Withholding . 

14.1 

Tax
      Withholding .  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee,
      the Company shall deduct or withhold an amount sufficient to satisfy
      Federal, state, and local taxes (including but not limited to the
      Participant's employment tax obligations) required by law to be withheld
      with respect to any taxable event arising or as a result of this Plan
      ("Withholding Taxes"). 

14.2  

Share
      Withholding .  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee,
      upon the exercise of Options, the lapse of restrictions on Restricted
      Stock, the distribution of Performance Shares in the form of Stock, or any
      other taxable event hereunder involving the transfer of Stock to a
      Participant, the Company shall withhold Stock equal in value, using the
      Fair Market Value on the date determined by the Company to be used to
      value the Stock for tax purposes, to the Withholding Taxes applicable to
      such transaction. 

Any
fractional Share of Stock payable to a Participant shall be withheld as
additional Federal withholding, or, at the option of the Company, paid in cash
to the Participant. 

Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method of payment for the
Exercise Price is from the sale by a stockbroker pursuant to Section 6.7(b)(ii),
herein, of the Stock acquired through the Option exercise, then the tax
withholding shall be satisfied out of the proceeds.  For
administrative purposes in determining the amount of taxes due, the sale price
of such Stock shall be deemed to be the Fair Market Value of the
Stock. 

If
permitted by the Committee, prior to the end of any Performance Period a
Participant may elect to have a greater amount of Stock withheld from the
distribution of Performance Shares to pay withholding taxes; provided, however,
the Committee may prohibit or limit any individual election or all such
elections at any time. 

All
obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted
hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the
existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase,
merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business
and/or assets of the Company. 

Article
      16 

Legal
      Construction . 

16.1 

Gender and
      Number .  Except where otherwise indicated by the context,
      any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural
      shall include the singular and the singular shall include the
      plural. 

16.2 

Severability .  In
      the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for
      any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining
      parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the
      illegal or invalid provision had not been
  included. 

16.3 

Requirements of
      Law .  The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares
      under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and
      regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or
      national securities exchanges as may be
  required. 

16.4  

Errors .  At
      any time AT T may correct any error made under the Plan without
      prejudice to AT T.  Such corrections may include, among
      other things, changing or revoking an issuance of an
  Award. 

16.5 

Elections and
      Notices .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
      contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of every kind shall be
      made on forms prepared by AT T or the General Counsel, Secretary or
      Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates or shall be made in
      such other manner as permitted or required by AT T or the General
      Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates,
      including but not limited to elections or notices through electronic
      means, over the Internet or otherwise.  An election shall be
      deemed made when received by AT T (or its designated agent, but only
      in cases where the designated agent has been appointed for the purpose of
      receiving such election), which may waive any defects in
      form.  AT T may limit the time an election may be made in
      advance of any deadline. 

Where any
notice or filing required or permitted to be given to AT T under the Plan,
it shall be delivered to the principal office of AT T, directed to the
attention of the Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources of AT T or
his or her successor.  Such notice shall be deemed given on the date
of delivery. 

Notice to
the Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the
Participant's work or home address as shown on the records of AT T or, at
the option of AT T, to the Participant's e-mail address as shown on the
records of AT T.  It is the Participant's responsibility to ensure
that the Participant's addresses are kept up to date on the records of
AT T.  In the case of notices affecting multiple Participants, the
notices may be given by general distribution at the Participants' work
locations. 

16.6 

Governing
      Law .  To the extent not preempted by Federal law, the
      Plan, and all awards and agreements hereunder, and any and all disputes in
      connection therewith, shall be governed by and construed in accordance
      with the substantive laws of the State of Texas, without regard to
      conflict or choice of law principles which might otherwise refer the
      construction, interpretation or enforceability of this Plan to the
      substantive law of another
jurisdiction. 

16.7  

Venue  .   Because
      awards under the Plan are granted in Texas, records relating to the Plan
      and awards thereunder are located in Texas, and the Plan and awards
      thereunder are administered in Texas, the Company and the Participant to
      whom an award under this Plan is granted, for themselves and their
      successors and assigns, irrevocably submit to the exclusive and sole
      jurisdiction and venue of the state or federal courts of Texas with
      respect to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this Plan,
      the subject matter of this Plan or any awards under this Plan, including
      but not limited to any disputes arising out of or relating to the
      interpretation and enforceability of any awards or the terms and
      conditions of this Plan.  To achieve certainty regarding the
      appropriate forum in which to prosecute and defend actions arising out of
      or relating to this Plan, and to ensure consistency in application and
      interpretation of the Governing Law to the Plan, the parties agree that
      (a) sole and exclusive appropriate venue for any such action shall be an
      appropriate federal or state court in Bexar County, Texas, and no other,
      (b) all claims with respect to any such action shall be heard and
      determined exclusively in such Texas court, and no other, (c) such Texas
      court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over the person of such
      parties and over the subject matter of any dispute relating hereto and (d)
      that the parties waive any and all objections and defenses to bringing any
      such action before such Texas court, including but not limited to those
      relating to lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue or  forum non
      conveniens . 

</EX-10.II>

<EX-10.JJ>
 23
 ex10jj.htm
 PENSION BENEFIT MAKEUP PLAN #1

ex10jj.htm 

Exhibit
10-jj  

AT T PENSION
BENEFIT  

       MAKE UP PLAN NO.
1  

Effective:  January
1, 2005 

      Revised
September 1, 2005 

      Amended
and Restated December 31, 2008 

AT T PENSION BENEFIT
MAKE UP PLAN NO. 1  

SECTION
1:  Purpose and History  

1.1.            Purpose . The primary
purpose of the AT T Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 1 (the  Plan ) is to
supplement the benefits a Participant is entitled to receive under a pension
plan that is qualified under Code Section 401(a) and is sponsored by AT T
Inc. ( AT T  or the  Company ) or one of its Subsidiaries (collectively, the
 Pension Plans ).  This Plan recognizes compensation earned by an
individual who is eligible to participate in this Plan as provided in Section 2
(a  Participant ) that is not recognized in the determination of benefits under
the Participant s Pension Plan, and this Plan is intended to make up benefits
that would otherwise be lost because of such Pension Plan
limitations. 

The Plan
is intended to provide deferred compensation benefits by recognizing
compensation earned by a Participant that is in excess of the amount that is
recognized under Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the  Code ), and to provide benefits to the extent such Participant s
Pension Plan benefits are limited by the provisions of Code Section
415. 

1.2.            History .  The
Plan is effective as of January 1, 2005, and constitutes an amendment
and  restatement of the plans listed in Attachment A (the  Predecessor
Plans ).  AT T and companies whose equity interests are owned
100%, directly or indirectly, by AT T ( Subsidiary ) sponsored the
Predecessor Plans for the benefit of their respective eligible
employees.  No additional benefits shall accrue under the Predecessor
Plans after December 31, 2004, and benefits of Participants who terminate
employment on or after January 1, 2005 shall be paid solely under this
Plan.  The Predecessor Plans were intended to supplement participants 
Pension Plan benefits by (i) recognizing compensation that is not eligible to be
recognized for purposes of calculating Pension Plan benefits, either as a result
of statutory limitations or Pension Plan limitations, and/or (ii) providing
benefits in excess of the limitations of Code Section 415.  This Plan
is intended to aggregate all of such Predecessor Plans and provide substantially
similar benefits, on a going forward basis.  Further, this Plan is
intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A, effective with
respect to amounts deferred after December 31, 2004.   During the
period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008, the Plan has been operated in
good faith compliance with the provisions of Code Section 409A, Internal Revenue
Service Notice 2005-1, and the final Treasury Regulations for Code Section 409A,
and any other generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue
Service Bulletin with an effective date prior to January 1, 2009.  On
or after January 1, 2009, this Plan shall be interpreted and construed
consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A and all applicable
guidance issued thereunder. 

SECTION
2:  Eligibility and Participation  

2.1.            Eligibility . Benefit
accrual in this Plan is limited to each employee of any Subsidiary of AT T
who: 

(a)   

participates
      in a Pension Plan; 

(b)   

is
      a General Management level or above
employee; 

(c)   

is
      not eligible for benefits under the 2005 AT T Supplemental Employee
      Retirement Plan; and 

(d)   

receives
      types of compensation that are used to determine the employee s Pension
      Plan benefit (e.g., base salary or short term incentive compensation) in
      any calendar year, but that compensation is not recognized for purposes of
      determining such employee s Pension Plan benefit, or whose Pension Plan
      benefit is limited by Code Section
415. 

(e)   

is
      not an employee of a company acquired by AT T on or after September 1,
      2005 unless designated as eligible by AT T s highest ranking officer
      specifically responsible for human resource matters; provided, however,
      effective January 1, 2009, this section 2.1(e) shall not apply to any
      employee who satisfies the eligibility provisions of this section 2.1 (a),
      (b), (c), and (d) and is employed by AT T Inc. or any of its
      Subsidiaries on or after January 1, 2009, other than an employee who is a
      participant in the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement
      Plan, the AT T Corp. Nonqualified Pension Plan, or the AT T Corp.
      Excess Pension Plan. 

2.2.            Construction of Eligibility
Provisions . The eligibility provisions of Section 2.1, above, shall be
interpreted in the broadest possible sense in order that this Plan can recognize
all base salary and short term incentive compensation, whenever earned, for the
purpose of making up any benefit that would otherwise be lost due to the fact
that the Pension Plan is unable to recognize any such compensation in
determining retirement benefits. 

2.3.            Loss of Eligibility .
In the event that any Participant ceases to satisfy the eligibility conditions
of Section 2.1, such Participant shall nevertheless continue to be eligible to
receive benefits under this Plan, however, no additional benefits shall accrue
under the Plan unless and until he or she shall re-attain eligibility
hereunder. 

2.4.            Ineligible Participant
 .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the
contrary, if any Participant is determined not to be  in a select group of
management or highly compensated employees  within the meaning of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), or the regulations
thereunder, such Participant shall not be eligible to continue to accrue a
benefit under this Plan on or after such date to the extent benefits hereunder
are attributable to compensation in excess of the amount under Code Section
401(a)(17) and not attributable to the limitations imposed by the provisions of
Code Section 415. 

2.5            No Duplication of
Benefits .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the
contrary, if a Participant ceases to accrue benefits under this Plan and becomes
eligible to receive the equivalent of his/her benefit under this Plan pursuant
to the Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 2, to the extent such benefit is paid
pursuant to such other plan, no duplication of such payment shall be made
pursuant to this Plan. 

SECTION 3:  Amount
of Plan Benefits  

3.1.            Amount of Plan
Benefits . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Plan
benefits payable to, or on account of, a Participant under the Plan as of any
date shall be an amount equal to: 

(a)           the
amount of the Participant s benefit under the Pension Plan in which he or she
participates on the date of his or her termination of employment that would have
been payable to or on account of the Participant under such Pension Plan as of
that date, determined without regard to the limitations imposed by either Code
Section 401(a)(17) or 415 and determined as if all types of compensation that
are used to determine the employee s Pension Plan benefit (e.g., base salary and
short-term incentive compensation that the Participant is eligible to receive)
were recognized for purposes of calculating such amount; 

REDUCED
BY 

(b)           the
amount of the Participant s benefit actually paid under the Pension Plan in
which he participates on the date of his termination of employment. 

The
amount determined under subsection (a), above, shall be calculated in the same
manner that is used for calculating the amount under subsection (b), using the
benefit calculation methodology and the factors in effect under such Pension
Plan as of the date of his termination of employment; the only difference being
the amount of compensation used for calculating such amount. 

3.2.            Participants in Predecessor
Plans . If a Participant participated in one or more Predecessor Plans
prior to becoming a Participant under this Plan, benefits under this Plan shall
be no less than the benefits accrued under the Predecessor Plans, and the
benefits under this Plan shall be in lieu of all benefits otherwise payable to
him under the Predecessor Plans. 

SECTION
4:  Payment of Plan Benefits  

4.1            Distribution of Plan
Benefits .  Benefits hereunder shall be calculated and
distributed upon a Participant s termination of employment; provided, however,
distribution of Plan benefits of any Participant who is also a participant in
the 2005 AT T Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan shall commence on the
sixth month anniversary of such Participant s termination of
employment. 

4.2.            Form of Plan
Benefits . Benefits hereunder shall be paid in the form of a lump sum;
provided, however, if the amount of the Participant s lump sum benefit exceeds
$50,000 as of his termination of employment, the Plan benefit shall be paid in
monthly installments over a period of ten (10)
years.  .Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any
Participant who, prior to termination of employment ceases to satisfy the
eligibility conditions of Section 2.1, the form of such Participant s benefit
(lump sum or ten (10) year monthly annuity) shall be determined as of the date
such Participant ceases to satisfy the eligibility conditions of Section
2.1. 

If benefits are distributed in the form
of a monthly annuity for ten (10) years, the monthly payments shall be
calculated in the same manner that a financial institution would calculate the
monthly payments for a 10-year fixed interest loan. 

Nothwithstanding any other provision of
this Plan, the benefits of any Participant who was a participant in and accrued
benefits under the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive 2005 Transition Pension Make
Up Plan (which is a Predecessor Plans) shall have their benefits distributed
exclusively in a lump sum. 

4.3            Converting Form of
Benefit .  For all purposes under the Plan, the lump sum benefit
and ten year monthly installment form of benefit shall be the actuarially
determined equivalent of one another, as determined by the Plan Administrator in
the Plan Administrator s complete and sole discretion, and the amount of such
benefits under the Plan shall be determined on the basis of the Participant s
age and the rates, tables, and factors which would be utilized to determine such
benefit under the Pension Plan as of the date required for making such
determination.. 

SECTION
5:  General and Administrative Provisions  

5.1.            Plan Administration .
The Company shall be the Plan Administrator of the Plan.  The Plan
Administrator s responsibilities hereunder shall be carried out by its Senior
Executive Vice President responsible for Human Resources matters.  The
authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan
shall be vested in the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator has the
exclusive right and discretion to construe, interpret and apply the provisions
of the Plan and the entitlement to benefits under the Plan in accordance with
its terms. The Plan Administrator may establish, adopt or revise such rules and
regulations as the Plan Administrator may deem necessary or advisable for the
administration of the Plan.  Any decision made by the Plan
Administrator on any matter within  the Plan Administrator s
discretion is conclusive, final and binding on all persons, and not subject to
further review. The Benefit Plan Committee of the Company shall grant or deny
claims for benefits under the Plan and authorize disbursements. Adequate notice,
pursuant to applicable law and prescribed Company practices, shall be provided
in writing to any Participant or Beneficiary whose claim has been denied,
setting forth the specific reasons for such denial. The review and appeal
procedures for any Participant or Beneficiary whose claim has been denied shall
be the same as those procedures set forth in the Pension Plan under which such
Participant or Beneficiary is entitled to or received benefits. 

5.2.            Source of Benefits;
Unsecured Creditor . The obligations of the Company under the Plan are
solely contractual. Any amount payable under the terms of the Plan shall be paid
from the general assets of the Company or a
Subsidiary.  Alternatively, amounts payable under the terms of the
Plan may be paid from one or more trusts that the Company or a Subsidiary might
elect to establish, the assets of which will be subject to the claims of the
general creditors of the Company or the Subsidiary that created the
trust.  Participants and their beneficiaries shall have no legal or
equitable rights, interest, or claims in any property or assets of the Company
or any Subsidiary.  Any and all of the Company s or a Subsidiary s
assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of the
Company or any such Subsidiary.  The Company s or a Subsidiary s
obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured
promise of the Company or any such Subsidiary to distribute cash under the Plan
in the future.  If a Participant's term of employment includes service
by two Subsidiaries or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries, the Company
or Subsidiary which last employed the Participant shall be solely responsible
for the entire benefit payable under the Plan. 

5.3.            Notices . Any notice
or document required to be given to or filed with the Plan Administrator shall
be considered to be given or filed if delivered to the Plan Administrator or
mailed by registered mail, postage prepaid, to the Plan
Administrator. 

5.4.            Applicable Laws . The
Plan shall be construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the
State of Texas, to the extent that such laws are not preempted by ERISA or any
other laws of the United States of America. 

5.5.            Gender and Number .
Where the context requires, words in any gender shall include any other gender,
words in the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the
singular. 

5.6.            Benefits Determined as of
Termination of Employment  . Except as otherwise specifically provided in
the Plan, the right to benefits under the Plan and the amount of benefits of a
Participant who has terminated or terminates employment with the Company or a
Subsidiary shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Plan as
in effect immediately prior to that termination of employment. 

5.7.            Benefits Under Predecessor
Plans .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the
contrary, nothing shall reduce or impair the interests of individuals with
respect to benefits that are being paid under a Predecessor Plan as of the
effective date of this Plan without the consent of the affected
Participant.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the
contrary, nothing shall reduce or impair the interests of individuals with
respect to benefits that are accrued under a Predecessor Plan as of the
effective date of this Plan without the consent of the affected Participant;
provided, however, benefits accrued as of December 31, 2004 under the terms of a
Predecessor Plan shall only be distributed and paid under the terms of Section 4
of this Plan. 

5.8.            Plan Not Contract of
Employment . The Plan does not constitute a contract of employment, and
nothing in the Plan or any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a
contract of employment or to give any employee or Participant the right to be
retained in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary. 

5.9.            Benefits May Not Be Assigned
or Alienated . Benefits payable to, or on account of, any individual under
the Plan may not be voluntarily or involuntarily assigned, pledged, transferred,
mortgaged, alienated, conveyed in advance of actual receipt or otherwise
encumbered.  No such amounts shall be subject to seizure or
sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separation
maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by
operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any other person s
bankruptcy or insolvency.  Any such attempted assignments to transfer
shall be void.  Prior to the death of any Participant, no other person
shall have any rights under the Plan with respect to that
Participant. 

5.10.           Beneficiary Designation
 .  Participants shall have the right to designate a Beneficiary
to receive their benefits under the Plan should such Participant die prior to
commencement of or complete distribution of benefits hereunder.  The
AT T Rules for Beneficiary Designations as may hereafter be amended from
time to time (the  Rules ), which Rules are incorporated herein by this
reference, shall apply.  For purposes of this Plan,  Beneficiary 
shall mean any beneficiary designated by a Participant to receive his or her
benefits under this Plan in the event of the Participant s death, or as
otherwise determined under the Rules to the extent the Participant fails to
designate a beneficiary. 

5.11.          Amendments and
Termination . The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time in
accordance with the provisions of the AT T Schedule of Authorizations, as
amended from time-to-time, but such amendments or termination shall not
adversely affect the rights of any Participant, without his or her consent, to
any benefit payable under the Plan to which such Participant has previously
become entitled prior to the effective date of such amendment or
termination. 

5.12.          Tax Withholding . All
applicable federal, state and local taxes required by law to be withheld shall
be deducted from benefits paid under this Plan. 

5.13.          Offsets and
Overpayments .  If any overpayment is made by the Plan for any
reason, the Plan shall have the right to recover such
overpayment.  The Participant shall cooperate fully with the Plan to
recover any overpayment and provide any necessary information and required
documents.  If a Participant entitled to distribution of benefits
hereunder owes any amount to AT T or any Subsidiary, such amount may be
withheld from benefits payable hereunder to satisfy such
obligation.  Any overpayment or Participant debt to AT T or any
Subsidiary may be deducted from future benefits payable to or on behalf of the
Participant from this Plan. 

Attachment
A 

            Predecessor
Plans 

1.    

The AT T Pension Benefit
      Make Up Plan No. 1 , which is also the successor plan, effective
      January 1, 2000, to the SNET Pension Benefit Plan and, effective January
      1, 1999, to the Pacific Telesis Group Excess Benefit
  Plan. 

2.    

Section 4.10.2 of the AT T
      Pension Benefit Plan   Non-Bargained Program , which are the 415
      Excess Benefit Provisions of such
plan 

3.    

The Ameritech Corporate
      Resource Supplemental Pension Plan , which is a successor to the
      Ameritech Senior Management Retirement and Survivor Protection Plan and
      was established by Ameritech Corporation effective as of January 1, 1986,
      which, in turn was an amendment, restatement and continuation of the
      following predecessor plans:  the Ameritech Management
      Supplemental Pension Plan, the Ameritech Senior Management Non-Qualified
      Pension Plan, the Ameritech Mid-Career Pension Plan, and the retirement
      and survivor benefit provisions of the Ameritech Senior Management Long
      Term Disability and Survivor Protection
Plan. 

4.    

The
      Ameritech Management Supplemental Pension Benefit
  Plan 

5.   

Effective
      January 1, 2009,  The
      Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Pension Make Up Plan  and
       The Cingular Wireless SBC
      Executive 2005 Transition Pension Make Up
  Plan  

</EX-10.JJ>

<EX-10.QQII>
 24
 ex10qq_ii.htm
 SECOND AMENDMENT BELLSOUTH CORP STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMP PLAN

ex10qq_ii.htm 

Exhibit
10-qq(ii) 

AT T
INC. 

      HUMAN
RESOURCES COMMITTEE 

      June
26, 2008 

Second
Amendment to BellSouth Corporation 

      Stock and
Incentive Compensation Plan 

RESOLVED,
that the Human Resources Committee of AT T Inc. ("Corporation") hereby
authorizes and directs the Senior Executive Vice President-Human Resources to
provide that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the plan, payments of
Restricted Stock Units under the BellSouth Corporation Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan must be delayed six months from when they would otherwise be
payable when such amounts are to be paid to a Specified Employee, as that term
is used in Treasury Regulation  1.409A; and 

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the appropriate
officers of the Corporation are authorized to do or cause to be done any and all
such acts and things, and to execute and deliver any and all documents and
papers that they may deem necessary, proper or advisable to carry out the
foregoing resolutions. 

</EX-10.QQII>

<EX-10.XX>
 25
 ex10xx.htm
 AT&T CORP SR MGMT LONG TERM DISABILITY AND SURVIVOR PROTECTION PLAN

ex10xx.htm 

Exhibit
10-xx 

AT T 

SENIOR
MANAGEMENT LONG TERM 

DISABILITY
AND SURVIVOR PROTECTION PLAN 

As
Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1998 

      With
Amendments through December 31, 2008 

PURPOSE 

The Senior Management Long Term
Disability and Survivor Protection Plan (the  Plan ) has provided disability
benefits to Senior Managers of AT T Corp. The Plan also has provided a
minimum retirement benefit (from all AT T sources) to a Senior Manager who
satisfies certain age and service requirements at termination of employment. The
Surviving Spouse of a Senior Manager is also entitled to a minimum Surviving
Spouse benefit (from all AT T sources) if the Senior Manager dies while
actively employed, or after termination of employment with eligibility for a
minimum retirement benefit. 

Effective December 31, 2007, the Plan
was amended to eliminate the disability benefit with respect to future
disabilities.  Also effective after December 31, 2007, new Senior
Managers do not become participants in this Plan. 

During
the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008, the Plan has been operated
in good faith compliance with the provisions of Code Section 409A, Internal
Revenue Notice 2005-1, and the final Treasury Regulations for Code Section 409A,
and any other generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue
Service Bulletin with an effective date prior to January 1, 2009.  On
or after January 1, 2009, this Plan shall be interpreted and construed
consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A and all applicable
guidance issued thereunder with respect to all accrued benefits under this Plan,
including, except as indicated below, those benefits that may be otherwise
treated as existing prior to the statutory effective date of Code Section 409A
( grandfathered benefits ) within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section
1.409A-6(a)(3).  The preceding sentence notwithstanding, it is the
intention of the Company that the grandfathering provisions of Code Section 409A
be applied under this Plan with respect to any Participant (and any surviving
Spouse, Beneficiary or Estate of such Participant) who terminated employment
prior to January 1, 2005, with respect to all benefits earned under the Plan
with respect to such Participant prior to termination of
employment.  If any individual who terminated employment prior to
January 1, 2005 is rehired after December 31, 2004 and earns additional benefits
following reemployment the terms of the Plan shall be applied separately with
respect to benefits earned prior to January 1, 2005 and with respect to benefits
earned following rehire. The Company reserves the right to amend any provision
of the Plan or any election submitted by a Participant, or take any other action
that the Company deems appropriate to ensure compliance with Code Section 409A,
including altering the time and form of any distribution so as to accomplish the
intended purpose of this Plan. 

ARTICLE
1 

      DEFINITIONS 

For the
purpose of the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in
this  Article
1 . 

1.01.   

Administrator   shall
      mean the person identified as the Pension Plan Administrator under the
      Pension Plan or such other person or entity designated by the
      Company. 

1.02.   

Affiliated Corporation 
       shall mean any corporation or other entity of which 50 percent or
      more of the voting stock is owned directly or indirectly by
      AT T. 

1.03.   

AT T  or  Company 
       shall mean AT T Corp. (formerly American Telephone and
      Telegraph Company), a New York Corporation, or its
    successors. 

1.04.   

AT T Inc.   shall
      mean AT T Inc. (formerly SBC Communications Inc.), a Delaware
      Corporation, which acquired AT T Corp. effective November 18, 2005
      pursuant to that certain merger agreement dated January 30,
      2005. 

1.05.   

Annual Basic Pay   shall
      mean the Participant s annual base salary rate on the last day the
      Participant was on the active payroll plus an amount determined with
      reference to the Short Term Plan, but excluding all differentials regarded
      as temporary or extra payments and all awards and distributions made under
      the Long Term Plan.  For purposes of determining the Disability
      Allowance under  Article
      A-2 , the amount determined with reference to the Short Term Plan
      shall be the last Short Term Award granted to the Participant prior to the
      last day the Participant was on the active payroll.  For
      purposes of determining the Minimum Retirement Benefit under  Article 3  and  Article A-3 , and the
      Surviving Spouse Benefit under  Article 4  and  Article A-4 , the amount
      determined with reference to the Short Term Plan shall be the greater of
      (a) the Short Term Award for the last full calendar year of service prior
      to the earlier of the Participant s retirement, termination or death, or
      (b) the Short Term Award granted with respect to any later partial
      calendar year of service. 

1.06.   

Board   shall mean the
      Board of Directors of AT T
Corp. 

1.07.   

Committee   shall mean
      the Employees  Benefit Committee appointed by the Company to administer
      the Pension Plan, or any successor to such Employees  Benefit
      Committee. 

1.08.   

Leave of Absence   shall
      mean where a person is absent from employment with AT T on a leave of
      absence, military leave, or sick leave, where the leave is given in order
      to prevent a break in the continuity of term of employment, and permission
      for such leave is granted (and not revoked) in conformity with the rules
      of the employer that employs the individual, as adopted from time to time,
      and the employee is reasonably expected to return to service. Except as
      set forth below, the leave shall not exceed six (6) months for purposes of
      this Plan, and the employee shall Terminate Employment upon termination of
      such leave if the employee does not return to work prior to or upon
      expiration of such six (6) month period, unless the individual retains a
      right to reemployment under law or by contract. A twenty-nine (29) month
      limitation shall apply in lieu of such six (6) month limitation if the
      leave is due to the employee being  disabled  (within the meaning of
      Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(4)). A Leave of Absence shall not
      commence or shall be deemed to cease under the Plan where the employee has
      incurred a Termination of
Employment. 

1.09.   

Disability Benefit Plan 
       shall mean a Participating Company s Sickness and Accident
      Disability Benefit Plan. 

1.10.   

Long Term Plan   shall
      mean the AT T Senior Management Long Term Incentive Program or
      successor long term incentive
plans. 

1.11.     
       (a) 

Participant   for
      purposes of the Disability Allowance under  Article A-2 , shall mean
      an employee of a Participating Company holding a position evaluated or
      classified as above  E-band  or equivalent, except that no employee who
      has been notified in writing that the assignment to such position will be
      temporary shall be considered as a Participant for any purpose under the
      Plan.  Effective January 1, 2004, for purposes of Section
      A-2.04,  Participant  shall mean an employee of a Participating Company
      holding a position as a Senior Manager. Notwithstanding the preceding,
      effective January 1, 2008, an individual shall be a Participant for
      purposes of the Disability Allowance only if such individual is considered
       disabled  pursuant to Section A-2.01(a) prior to January 1, 2008, and
      only with respect to a continuous uninterrupted period of disability
      commencing prior to January 1,
2008. 

(b)  

Participant   for
      purposes of the Minimum Retirement Benefit under  Article 3 , shall mean
      (i) an employee of a Participating Company who holds a position evaluated
      or classified as above  E-band  or equivalent, except that no employee who
      has been notified in writing that the assignment to such position will be
      temporary shall be considered as a Participant for any purpose under the
      Plan, or (ii) effective January 1, 2004, an employee of a Participating
      Company holding a position as a Senior Manager. For purposes of the
      Minimum Retirement Benefit under Article 3,  Participant  shall also
      include a former employee who met the requirements of the preceding
      sentence on the last day of employment with AT T Corp. and who (i)
      terminated employment with five or more years of service and on or after
      age 62, or (ii) retired on a service pension under the Pension Plan or,
      (iii) effective for a termination of employment on or after January 1,
      1998, was Service Pension Eligible as defined herein at the date of
      termination of employment. 

Notwithstanding
      the preceding, an individual who is not a Participant on December 31, 2007
      shall not become a Participant under this
Plan. 

(c)  

Participant   for
      purposes of the Surviving Spouse Benefit under  Article 4 , shall mean an
      employee described in Section 1.11(a)   above, or a former
      employee of a Participating Company who was a Participant under Section
      1.11(a) on the last day of employment, if such former employee (1) is
      eligible to receive a Disability Allowance under Article 2, or (2) is
      eligible to receive a Minimum Retirement Benefit under Article
      3. 

(d)  

Participant   for
      purposes of the Death Benefit under  Article 5 , shall mean a
      former employee of a Participating Company who was a Participant under
      Section 1.11(b) above on the last day of employment, if such former
      employee is eligible to receive a Disability Allowance under Article 2, or
      is eligible to receive a Minimum Retirement Benefit under Article
      3. 

(e)   

For
      purposes of  Sections
      1.11(b), 1.11(c), and 1.11(d)  above, a former employee shall be
      considered to be eligible to receive a Disability Allowance under Article
      2 or a Minimum Retirement Benefit under Article 3 if he or she has met the
      conditions specified in Article 2 or in Article 3, even though the receipt
      of other benefits by such former employee precludes his or her receipt of
      any benefits under Article 2 or Article
3. 

(f)   

For
      purposes of  Section
      1.11 , Senior Manager shall mean a management employee of a
      Participating Company classified as  Manager 6  in a non-banded
      environment, or at salary grade level above  E-band  or its equivalent, in
      a banded environment. 

1.12.   

Participating Company 
       shall mean AT T Corp. and any Affiliated Corporation that has
      elected, with the approval of the Committee as required by  Section 8.01 , to
      participate in the Plan. 

1.13.   

Pension Plan   shall
      mean the AT T Management Pension Plan or successor pension
      plans. 

1.14.   

Plan   shall mean this
      AT T Senior Management Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection
      Plan. 

1.15.   

SERP Participant   shall
      mean an officer who is designated as a participant in the AT T Inc.
      2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (the  AT T SERP ). The
      initial day of participation in such plan is the named officer s  SERP
      Effective Date  as defined in the AT T SERP. For purposes of this
      Plan, such individual is considered a SERP Participant whether or not he
      or she has satisfied the vesting requirements of the
  SERP. 

1.16.   

SERP Vesting Date  
      shall mean the date a SERP Participant becomes vested in his or her
      benefit under the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan of AT T
      Inc., or January 1, 2011 if later. 

1.17.   

Service Pension
      Eligible   means termination of employment with a combination of age
      and/or Term of Employment as
follows: 

(i)          the
Participant s Term of Employment has been at least thirty years, regardless of
his or her age, or 

(ii)          the
Participant s Term of Employment has been at least twenty-five years and he or
she has reached the age of fifty years, or 

(iii)          the
Participant s Term of Employment has been at least twenty years and he or she
has reached the age of fifty-five years, or 

(iv)          the
Participant s Term of Employment has been at least ten years and he or she has
reached the age of sixty-five years 

For
purposes of determining whether a Participant is Service Pension Eligible at his
or her termination of employment on or after January 1, 1998,  term of
employment  shall include the period of a transition leave of absence, as
defined in the Pension Plan, determined in accordance with the provisions of the
Pension Plan. 

1.18.   

Short Term Award   means
      the actual amount awarded (including any amounts deferred pursuant to the
      AT T Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan) annually to a
      Participant pursuant to the AT T Short Term Incentive Plan or
      successor short term incentive plans.  Short Term Awards shall,
      for purposes of this Plan, be considered to be awarded on the last day of
      the performance period with respect to which they are
    earned. 

1.19.   

Short Term Plan   shall
      mean the AT T Short Term Incentive Plan or predecessor short term
      incentive plans. 

1.20.   

Specified Employee  
      shall mean any Participant who is a Key Employee (as defined in Code
      Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), as determined by
      AT T in accordance with its uniform policy with respect to all
      arrangements subject to Code Section 409A, based upon the 12-month period
      ending on each December 31st (such 12-month period is referred to below as
      the identification period). All Participants who are determined to be Key
      Employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5)
      thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Key
      Employees for purposes of the Plan during the 12-month period that begins
      on the first day of the 4th month following the close of such
      identification period. 

1.21.   

Surviving Spouse   means
      a deceased Participant s surviving spouse of the opposite sex who is such
      Participant s  spouse  within the meaning of the Qualified Plan, as
      defined in the respective provisions of the Qualified
      Plan.  Notwithstanding the preceding, if an alternate payee (as
      that term is defined in Section 414(p) of the Code) is deemed the
      surviving spouse for purposes of all or a portion of the Participant s
      benefit under the Qualified Plan, such alternate payee shall not be deemed
      to be the  spouse  for any purpose under this
  Plan 

1.22.   

Term of Employment  
      shall have the same meaning as the meaning assigned to such expression in
      the Pension Plan. 

1.23.   

Termination of
      Employment   shall mean the ceasing of the Participant s employment
      from the AT T controlled group of companies for any reason whatsoever,
      whether voluntarily or involuntarily. References herein to Termination of
      Employment, Terminate Employment, or a similar reference, shall mean the
      event where the employee has a separation from service, as defined under
      Code Section 409A, with all members of the AT T controlled group.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the employment relationship of a
      Participant with the AT T controlled group is considered to remain
      intact while the individual is on a Leave of Absence. With respect to
      periods on or after November 18, 2005, the controlled group shall be
      determined with respect to entities required to be aggregated recognizing
      the acquisition of AT T Corp. by SBC Communications Inc. (now known as
      AT T Inc.). 

ARTICLE
2 

      DISABILITY
ALLOWANCE 

Disability
benefits under this Plan are provided only with respect to an eligible
Participant whose disability commenced prior to January 1, 2008.  Plan
provisions applicable to disability benefits are described in Article
A-2. 

ARTICLE
3 

      MINIMUM
RETIREMENT BENEFIT 

This
Article 3 describes the Minimum Retirement Benefit payable with respect to a
Participant who terminates employment on or after December 1, 2008. The
provisions of Article A-3 describe the Minimum Retirement Benefit with respect
to a Participant who terminates employment prior to December 1,
2008. 

3.01.  

A
      Participant described in  Section 1.11(a)  whose
      Term of Employment has been five years or more who terminates employment
      on or after his or her sixty-second birthday, or a Participant described
      in  Section 1.11(b) 
      who is Service Pension Eligible at the time of his or her termination of
      employment, shall be eligible to receive a monthly minimum retirement
      benefit equal to one and one-quarter percent of Participant s Annual Basic
      Pay, as defined in  Section 1.05 , on the
      last day the Participant was on the active payroll reduced by the sum of
      the Immediate Annuity Value of the Qualified Plan, and the Immediate
      Annuity Value of the AT T Nonqualified Pension Plans.  For
      purposes of this Section 3.01, 

(a)
      the Immediate Annuity Value of the Qualified Plan means the monthly amount
      of annuity payments that would be paid under the Pension Plan on a single
      life, level payment annuity basis assuming payment of such plan benefit
      commenced immediately upon the Participant s Termination of Employment,
      notwithstanding the form of payment of such Pension Plan benefit actually
      made to the Participant and notwithstanding the actual commencement date
      of such Pension Plan benefit; and 

(b)
      the Immediate Annuity Value of the AT T Nonqualified Pension Plans
      shall mean the monthly amount of annuity benefits paid under the AT T
      Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan and the AT T Non-Qualified
      Pension Plan, as applicable, commencing at the actual time and pursuant to
      the actual form such benefit payments are made from such plans; provided,
      however, that if such payments are made in a form of payment other than a
      life annuity, the  Immediate Annuity Value  for purposes of this Section
      3.01(b) shall mean the amount payable as a single life annuity that is the
      actuarial equivalent of the payments made from such plans. Actuarial
      equivalence for this purpose shall be determined based on the actuarial
      assumptions and methodology in effect under the SERP as of the date
      payments commence. 

Notwithstanding
      the preceding, with respect to a Participant whose Termination of
      Employment occurs after the SERP Vesting Date, as defined herein, a
      benefit shall be calculated pursuant to the provisions of the preceding
      paragraph as of the Participant s SERP Vesting Date, as if the Participant
      had a Termination of Employment and benefits under the Pension Plan and
      AT T Nonqualified Pension Plans had commenced as of such
      date.  Thereafter, the Minimum Retirement Benefit shall be a
      frozen amount equal to the amount so determined as of such
      date.  If a Participant is not Service Pension Eligible or is
      not age 62 or older with five or more years of service as of the SERP
      Vesting Date, the Participant s Minimum Retirement Benefit shall
      thereafter be zero. 

3.02.  

The
      minimum retirement benefit shall be paid as an annuity, lump sum, or in
      installments payments, pursuant to an election under the AT T SERP
      made on or before December 31, 2008 with respect to benefits that may
      become payable to the Participant under the AT T SERP. The amount of
      any payment made in the form of installments or a lump sum will be the
      actuarial equivalent of the single life annuity benefits determined
      pursuant to Section 3.01, based on the actuarial assumptions and
      methodology in effect under the SERP as of the date payments
      commence. 

3.03.  

Payment
      of the Minimum Retirement Benefit shall commence at the Participant s
      Termination of Employment. Notwithstanding the preceding, effective on and
      after January 1, 2005 with respect to payments in the form of a commercial
      annuity pursuant to Section 6.01 and effective on and after January 1,
      2009 with respect to all other payments under the Plan, payment under the
      Plan to or with respect to a Participant who is eligible to participate in
      the SERP or who is determined to meet the definition of Specified Employee
      shall be payable as otherwise provided in this Plan, except that the
      initial payment shall be made no earlier than six (6) months following his
      or her Termination of Employment.  If, absent this Section 3.03,
      payment to a Specified Employee would have commenced before the expiration
      of such six-month period, the first payment with respect to such Specified
      Employee will include the sum of the annuity payments withheld, together
      with interest thereon.    For purposes of the
      immediately preceding sentence, interest shall be credited using the GAAP
      Rate in effect as of the end of the calendar year immediately preceding
      the Participant s Termination of Employment, for distributions made after
      December 31, 2007.   GAAP Rate  means such rate as defined under
      the SERP for the referenced period. Notwithstanding the preceding, for
      distributions made prior to January 1, 2008, interest credited for
      purposes of this Section 3.03 shall be at an effective annual rate equal
      to 120 percent of the Federal Mid-term rate in effect as of the date such
      annuity payments otherwise would have
  commenced.. 

3.04.  

Payments
      made pursuant to this Article 3 shall terminate at the death of the
      Participant, but shall terminate earlier if the form of payment,
      determined pursuant to Section 3.02, is other than a life annuity form of
      payment. 

ARTICLE
4 

      SURVIVING
SPOUSE BENEFIT 

This
Article 4 describes the Surviving Spouse Benefit payable with respect to a
Participant who is an employee on December 1, 2008 and whose death occurs on or
after December 1, 2008. The provisions of Article A-4 describe the Surviving
Spouse Benefit with respect to a Participant not described in the preceding
sentence. 

4.01.  

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.02, in the event of the death of a
      Participant, who is described in  Section 1.11(c) , the
      Surviving Spouse of such Participant shall be eligible to receive a
      monthly benefit equal to one and one-quarter percent of the Participant s
      Annual Basic Pay, as defined in  Section 1.04 , on the
      last day the Participant was on the active payroll prior to his or her
      death reduced by the Spouse Immediate Annuity Value of the Qualified Plan,
      and the Spouse Immediate Annuity Value of the AT T Nonqualified
      Pension Plans.  The Spouse Immediate Annuity Value of the
      Qualified Plan means the monthly annuity payment that would be paid to the
      Participant under the Pension Plan on a single life, level payment annuity
      basis assuming payment of such plan benefit commenced immediately upon the
      Participant s Termination of Employment, whether by death or otherwise,
      notwithstanding the form of payment of such Pension Plan benefit actually
      made to the Participant and notwithstanding the actual commencement date
      of such Pension Plan benefit.  For purposes of this Section
      4.01, the Spouse Immediate Annuity Value of the AT T Nonqualified
      Pension Plans shall mean the monthly annuity benefits paid to the
      Surviving Spouse under the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan
      and the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan, as applicable, commencing at
      the actual time and pursuant to the actual form such benefit payments are
      made to the Surviving Spouse from such plans following the death of the
      Participant. 

Notwithstanding
      the preceding, with respect to a Participant whose Termination of
      Employment occurs after the SERP Vesting Date, a benefit shall be
      calculated pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph as of the
      Participant s SERP Vesting Date, as if the Participant died and benefits
      under the Pension Plan and the AT T Nonqualified Pension Plans had
      commenced on such date.  The amount so determined shall be
      fixed, and shall not be subject to redetermination. With respect to a
      benefit payable upon the death of a Participant occurring after the SERP
      Vesting Date, the Surviving Spouse Benefit shall be determined as
      follows: 

(i)   If
      the Participant dies following Termination of Employment, the Surviving
      Spouse Benefit shall be equal to the amount determined as of the SERP
      Vesting Date; provided, however, if the Participant is not Service Pension
      Eligible or is not age 62 or older with five or more years of service as
      of the SERP Vesting Date, the Surviving Spouse Benefit shall be zero.

(ii) 
      If the Participant dies prior to Termination of Employment, the Surviving
      Spouse Benefit shall be equal to the amount determined as of the SERP
      Vesting Date. 

4.02.  

Notwithstanding
      any provision of  Section
      4.01  to the contrary, the Surviving Spouse of a Participant shall
      not be eligible to receive benefits under this  Article 4  if the form of
      payment designated by the Participant pursuant to an election under the
      AT T SERP made on or before December 31, 2008 with respect to benefits
      that may become payable to the Participant under the AT T SERP is
      other than a joint and survivor form of payment with the Surviving Spouse
      as the joint annuitant. 

4.03.   

The
      benefit payable to the Surviving Spouse shall be paid in the form of a
      single life annuity, commencing upon the death of the
      Participant. 

4.04.  

Payments
      made pursuant to this Article 4 shall terminate at the death of the
      Surviving Spouse. 

ARTICLE
5 

      DEATH
BENEFITS 

5.01.   

Upon
      the death of a Participant described in  Section 1.11(d)  whose
      last day on the active payroll occurred on or after January 1, 1987, and
      who has not retired on a service pension or a disability pension under the
      Pension Plan, or who was not Service Pension Eligible at the time of
      termination, a death benefit in the amount of the Participant s annual
      base salary rate in effect on the last day said Participant was on the
      active payroll shall be paid to one or more of the beneficiaries listed in
       Section 5.02  below
      as determined by the Committee, provided, however, that such death benefit
      shall be reduced by the sum of any death benefit paid under Section 5 of
      the Pension Plan, the AT T Excess Benefits and Compensation Plan, and
      the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan on account of the Participant s
      death. 

5.02.   

The
      persons who may be the beneficiaries of the death benefit described in
       Section 5.01  are
      the Participant s legal spouse if living with him at the time of his or
      her death, his or her unmarried child or children under age 23 (or over
      that age if physically or mentally incapable of self-support) who were
      being supported in whole or in part by the deceased at his or her death,
      or a dependent parent or parents living with the deceased at the time of
      his or her death or in a separate household in the vicinity of the
      deceased and provided by him. 

5.03.   

If
      the Participant is not survived by any person listed in  Section 5.02 , a death
      benefit up to the maximum amount shown in  Section 5.01  above may
      be payable, at the discretion of the Committee, to any other dependent
      relative receiving or entitled to receive support from the deceased; if no
      such dependent relative survives the deceased, no death benefit will be
      payable under this Plan. 

ARTICLE
6 

      SOURCE
OF PAYMENT 

6.01.       Source
of Payments. 

(a)           AT T
may establish a trust to hold assets to be used to make benefit payments under
the terms of this Plan, provided such trust does not cause the Plan to be
 funded  within the meaning of ERISA.  Funds invested hereunder shall,
for purposes of this Plan, be considered to be part of the general assets of the
Participating Company which invested the funds, and no Participant, beneficiary
or lawful spouse shall have any interest or right in such funds.  To
the extent trust assets are available, they may be used to pay benefits arising
under this Plan and all costs, charges and expenses relating
thereto.  To the extent that the funds held in the trust are
insufficient to pay such benefits, costs, charges and expenses, AT T or the
responsible Participating Company shall pay such benefits, costs, charges and
expenses from its general assets. 

(b)           In
addition, the Company may, in its sole discretion, purchase and distribute one
or more commercial annuity contracts, or cause the trustee of the trust to
purchase and distribute one or more commercial annuity contracts, to make
benefit payments required under this Plan, to any Officer, as defined herein, or
the Surviving Spouse of any Officer, provided, however, that with respect to an
annuity purchase occurring prior to January 1, 2005,  the purchase and
distribution of any such annuity contracts shall be no sooner than the
expiration of any forfeiture provisions applicable to the
Officer  under the AT T Non-Competition Guidelines, or as
otherwise may be provided in accordance with procedures establish by the
Executive Vice President   Human Resources (or any successor to such position),
and provided further that, effective January 1, 2004, the Company s right to
direct that payments under the Plan shall be made through one or more commercial
annuity contracts shall be applicable to only the benefits payable to any
Participant, or the Surviving Spouse of any such Participant, as applicable, who
(1) was  on the active payroll of the Company (or on an approved leave
of absence with guaranteed right of reinstatement) and classified as an Officer
on December 31, 2003, and (2) satisfies the age and service requirements, or is
within twelve months of satisfying the  requirements in effect at the
time the Participant terminates employment with the Company for the receipt of
retirement-related health benefits under the AT T Corp. Postretirement
Welfare Benefits Plan (or any successor to such plan) (other than by virtue of
the  Rule of 65 or  through a Company-sponsored employee-paid health
benefits access program, or through the AT T Corp. Separation Medical Plan),
without regard to whether or not the Officer has five years of service as of
December 31, 1999. Such annuity contracts may be purchased from a commercial
insurer acceptable to the Executive Vice President - Human Resources (or any
successor to such position). Further, the Executive Vice President - Human
Resources (or any successor to such position), may determine, in his or her sole
discretion, to pay additional sums to any Officer, from the Company s general
assets or from the trust, if any, to reimburse the Officer for additional
federal and state income taxes estimated to be incurred by reason of the
distribution of any such annuity contracts. The Executive Vice President - Human
Resources (or any successor to such position) shall establish a methodology or
methodologies for determining the amount of such additional sums. The
methodology or methodologies selected shall be those that the Executive Vice
President - Human Resources (or any successor to such position) determines, in
his or her sole discretion, to be the most effective and administratively
feasible for the purpose of producing after-tax periodic benefit payments that
approximate the after-tax periodic benefit payments that would have been
received by Officers in the absence of the distribution of the annuity
contract.  Any such purchase and distribution of an annuity contract
shall be a full and complete discharge of the Plan s, AT T s and the
Participating Companies  liability for payments assumed by the issuer of the
annuity contract. 

(c)    Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding Section 6.01(b), effective January 1, 2005, a
Participant who is eligible to elect to receive his or her benefit under the
Plan in the form of a third-party commercial annuity contract pursuant to
Section 6.01(b) shall be required to submit an election, on a form provided by
the Company, with respect to the time and form of payment in which benefits
under this Plan shall be distributed for any reason other than the death of the
Participant.  Such election form shall be submitted to the Company no
later than one of the following dates, whichever is applicable:  (i)
such Participant s separation from service, with respect to distribution of such
annuity contract during the 2005 calendar year, (ii) the earlier of (A) such
employee s separation from service, or (B) December 31, 2005, with respect to
the distribution of such annuity contract during the 2006 calendar year, and
(iii) December 31, 2006, for distributions of such annuity contracts occurring
after the 2006 calendar year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Company may permit such a Participant to submit a distribution election form in
2006 with respect to his or her benefits under the Plan, provided that such
election in the 2006 calendar year may not result in a change in payment
elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive
during the 2006 calendar year, or to cause payments to be made in 2006, to the
extent permitted under the proposed Treasury Regulations under Code Section
409A. 

(d)  Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding Section 6.01(b) and Section 6.01(c), the annuity
purchase program described in Section 6.01(b) shall be discontinued effective
September 6, 2007, and any election in effect on September 6, 2007 pursuant to
which a Participant has elected to receive distribution of his or her benefits
under this Plan through the purchase of a commercial annuity contract shall be
null and void, as such election relates to any distribution from this Plan to a
Participant or Surviving Spouse occurring after September 6, 2007. 

6.02.       Unfunded
Status. 

The Plan
at all times shall be entirely unfunded for purposes of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, and ERISA, and, except as provided in  Section 6.01 , no provision
shall at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of a
Participating Company for payment of any benefits hereunder.  Funds
invested hereunder shall continue for all purposes to be part of the general
assets of the Participating Company which invested the funds.  The
Plan constitutes a mere promise by the Participating Company to make payments,
if any, in the future.  No Participant, spouse, beneficiary or any
other person shall have any interest in any particular assets of a Participating
Company by reason of the right to receive a benefit under the Plan and to the
extent the Participant, surviving lawful spouse, beneficiary or any other person
acquires a right to receive benefits under this Plan, such right shall be no
greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of a Participating
Company. 

ARTICLE
7 

      ADMINISTRATION
OF THE PLAN 

7.01.       Administration
and Authorities. 

The Plan
shall be administered by the Company and it shall have full discretionary
authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Plan,
including the power to interpret provisions of the Plan, make determinations of
fact, promulgate rules and regulations, determine benefit eligibility of
individual and classes of Participants, delegate its powers and duties hereunder
to the Committee, the Administrator or others and take such other action as it
shall find necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of the
Plan.  The Committee and the Administrator may retain attorneys,
consultants, accountants or other persons (who may be employees of the Company
or an Affiliated Corporation) to render advice and assistance and may delegate
any of the authorities conferred on it to such persons as it shall determine to
be appropriate to effect the discharge of its duties hereunder.  The
Company, the Affiliated Corporations and any of their officers and employees
shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, and determinations of any
such persons.  Any exercise of the authorities set forth in this
Section, whether by the Company, the Committee or its Delegate, or the
Administrator, shall be final and binding upon the Company, its Affiliated
Corporations, their officers, directors and affected Participants and
beneficiaries. 

7.02.      Committee. 

The
Company has delegated to the Committee authority to make the final determination
to grant or deny claims for benefits under the Plan with respect to Participants
and to authorize disbursements according to the terms of the Plan. 

7.03.      Indemnification. 

No member
of the Board or the Committee or the Administrator shall be personally liable by
reason of any contract or other instrument executed by such individual on his or
her behalf or in his or her capacity as a member of the Board, Committee or the
Administrator nor for any mistake of judgment made in good faith, and AT T
shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Board, each member of the
Committee, the Administrator and each other employee, officer, or director of
AT T or any Participating Company to whom any duty or power relating to the
administration or interpretation of the Plan may be allocated or delegated,
against any cost or expense (including attorneys  fees) or liability (including
any sum paid in settlement of a claim) arising out of any act or omission to act
in connection with the Plan unless arising out of such person s own fraud or bad
faith. 

(a)   

Benefit
      Claims . 

All
claims for benefit payments under the Plan shall be submitted in writing by a
Participant, a Surviving Spouse, beneficiary, or the estate of the Participant,
or the duly authorized representative of such person or estate ( Claimant  for
purposes of this Section 7.04) to the Administrator. The Administrator shall
notify the Claimant in writing within 90 days after receipt as to whether the
claim has been granted or denied. This period may be extended for up to an
additional 90 days, for a total of 180 days, in the case of special circmstances
provided that written notice of the extension is furnished to the Claimant prior
to the termination of the initial 90-day period. The extension notice shall
indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date
by which the Administrator expects to render the benefit determination. In the
event the claim is denied, in whole or in part, the Claimant will receive notice
of the Administrator s decision, including: (i) the specific reasons for the
adverse determination, (ii) reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which
the adverse determination is based, (iii) a description of any additional
material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect the claim and an
explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and (iv) a
description of the Plan s procedures for appealing the adverse determination
(including applicable time limits) and the Claimant s right to bring a civil
action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse determination on
review. 

(b)   

Benefit
      Appeals . 

A
Claimant whose claim for benefits has been denied, in whole or in part, may,
within 60 days of receipt of any adverse benefit determination, appeal such
denial to the Committee. All appeals shall be in the form of a written statement
and shall (i) set forth all of the reasons in support of favorable action on the
appeal, (ii) identify those provisions of the Plan upon which the Claimant is
relying, and (iii) include copies of any other documents, records and other
materials which may support favorable consideration of the claim. If the
Claimant submits a written request for review of a denied claim, the Claimant is
entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and
copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claim
(as defined in DOL Reg.  2560.503-1(m)(8) for claims filed on or after January
1, 2002), and (iv) a statement of the right of the Claimant to bring a civil
action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination
on review.  The Claimant may raise issues even if such issues were not
raised in the initial benefit determination. The Committee shall decide the
issues presented within 60 days after receipt of such request, but this period
may be extended for up to an additional 60 days in the case of special
circumstances provided that written notice of the extension is furnished to the
Claimant prior to the termination of the initial 60-day period.  The
extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension
of time and the date by which the Committee expects to render the determination.
In the case of an adverse determination, the decision of the Committee shall be
set forth in writing and include (i) the specific reason or reasons for the
adverse determination, (ii) reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which
the denial is based, (iii) a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive,
upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all
documents, records, and other information (as defined in DOL Reg.
 2560.503-1(m)(8) for claims filed on or after January 1, 2002) relevant to the
Claimant s claim for benefits, and (iv) a statement of the right of the Claimant
to bring a civil action action section 502(a) of ERISA. 

Any
Claimant whose claim for benefits has been denied shall have such further rights
of review as are provided in ERISA   503, and the Committee and
Administrator shall retain such right, authority, and discretion as is provided
in or not expressly limited by ERISA   503.  The Plan provisions
require that the Claimant pursue all claim and appeal rights described in this
Section 7.04 before seeking any other legal recourse regarding claims for
benefits. 

(c)   

Final
      Review . 

The
Committee shall serve as the final review committee, under the Plan and ERISA,
for the review of all appeals by Claimants (as defined in Section 7.04) whose
initial claims for benefits have been denied, in whole or in part, by the
Administrator. The Committee shall have the authority, subject to Section
7.04(c), to determine conclusively for all parties any and all questions arising
from administration of the Plan, and shall have sole and complete discretionary
authority and control to manage the operation and administration of the Plan,
including, but not limited to, authorizing disbursements according to the Plan,
the determination of all questions relating to eligibility for participation and
benefits, interpretation of all Plan provisions, determination of the amount and
kind of benefits payable to any Participant, Surviving Spouse or estate, and the
construction of disputed and doubtful terms. Such decisions by the Committee
shall be conclusive and binding on all parties and not subject to further
review. 

ARTICLE
8 

ADOPTION,
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 

8.01.        Adoption
of Plan. 

Any
Affiliated Corporation that participates in the Pension Plan may, with the
consent of the Committee, elect to participate in the Plan.  Such
Affiliated Corporation shall become a Participating Company as of the date
specified by the Committee in its resolution approving the participation of the
Affiliated Corporation in the Plan. 

8.02.        Amendment
and Termination. 

AT T
is the Sponsor of the Plan and the Board or its delegates, may from time to time
amend, modify or change the Plan as set forth in this document, and the Board or
its delegate (acting pursuant to the Board s delegations of authority then in
effect) may terminate the Plan at any time.  Plan amendments may
include, but are not limited to, elimination or reduction in the level or type
of benefits provided to any class or classes or Participants, surviving lawful
spouses and beneficiaries).  Any and all Plan amendments may be made
without the consent of any employee, Participant, spouse or
beneficiary.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the exercise of the power
to amend, modify or terminate the Plan shall be subject to the limitations
described in paragraphs (a) and (b) below. 

(a)   

Such
      amendment, modification or termination shall not affect the rights of any
      Participant or surviving lawful spouse, without his or her consent, to any
      benefit under the Plan to which such Participant or surviving lawful
      spouse may have previously become entitled as a result of disability,
      death or termination of employment which occurred prior to the later of
      the adoption date or the effective date of such amendment or
      termination. 

(b)   

Such
      amendment, modification or termination shall not affect the rights of any
      Participant or his or her surviving lawful spouse, without his or her
      consent, to any future benefits payable under  Article 3  or  Article 4 , provided
      that, prior to the later of the adoption date or the effective date of
      such amendments or termination, such Participant either (i) had satisfied
      the requirements for eligibility for the benefits described in  Article 3 , other than
      the termination of employment requirement, or (ii) had begun to receive a
      disability allowance under  Article
      2 .  For purpose of determining a spouse s benefit, it
      shall be assumed that a Participant who is receiving a disability
      allowance as of the later of the adoption date or effective date of such
      amendment will continue to receive said allowance until his or her
      death.  The Annual Basic Pay used to compute such future
      benefits under  Article
      3  or  Article
      4  shall be the Participant s highest Annual Basic Pay as described
      in  Section 1.04  on
      any day during the term of his or her employment completed prior to the
      later of the adoption date or the effective date of such amendments or
      termination as if the Participant had terminated employment on that
      day. 

Notwithstanding
the preceding, the Board may adopt any prospective or retroactive amendment that
it determines is necessary for the Plan to maintain its compliance with Code
Section 409A. 

8.03.       Sale,
Spin-Off, or Other Disposition of Participating Company 

(a)   

Subject
      to  Section 8.02  of
      this Plan, in the event AT T sells, spins off, or otherwise disposes
      of an Affiliated Corporation, or disposes of all or substantially all of
      the assets of an Affiliated Corporation such that one or more Participants
      terminate employment for the purposes of accepting employment with the
      purchaser of such stock or assets, any person employed by such Affiliated
      Corporation who ceases to be an employee of the Company or an Affiliated
      Corporation as a result of the sale, spin-off, or disposition shall be
      deemed to have terminated his or her employment with a Participating
      Company for all relevant purposes under this Plan. Notwithstanding the
      preceding, effective January 1, 2005, no distribution shall commence
      pursuant to this Section 8.03(a) unless the Participant has a separation
      from service, as defined under Code Section 409A, with all members of the
      AT T controlled group. With respect to periods on or after November
      18, 2005, the controlled group shall be determined with respect to
      entities required to be aggregated recognizing the acquisition of AT T
      Corp. by SBC Communications Inc. (now known as AT T
    Inc.). 

(b)   

Notwithstanding
      the foregoing provisions of this  Section 8.03 , and
      subject to  Section
      8.02  of this Plan, if the sale, spin-off, or other disposition of
      the stock or assets of an Affiliated Corporation is to a Successor Plan
      Sponsor with the effect that a Participant is or becomes a Transition
      Participant, the Successor Plan Sponsor shall be solely liable for the
      payment of the pension and death benefits described in this Plan, and the
      entitlement of the Transition Participant or his or her surviving lawful
      spouse or beneficiary to benefits under this Plan shall
      terminate.  A Transition Participant shall not be considered to
      have terminated his or her employment with AT T or a Participating
      Company for any purpose under this
Plan. 

ARTICLE
9 

      GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

9.01.        Effective
Date. 

This Plan
was first adopted with effect on March 17, 1976 and was previously amended and
restated effective January 1, 1995.  This amended and restated Plan
shall be effective with respect to Participants who are eligible for benefits
under this Plan on or after January 1, 1998.  The provisions of the
Plan in effect before January 1, 1998 shall apply to Participants who are
terminate employment with eligibility for benefits under the Plan before January
1, 1998, and the spouse of such Participant, if applicable. 

9.02.        Assignment
of Benefits. 

The
benefits payable hereunder or the right to receive future benefits under the
Plan may not be anticipated, alienated, sold, transferred, assigned, pledged,
executed upon, encumbered, or subjected to any charge or legal process; no
interest or right to receive a benefit may be taken, either voluntarily or
involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or
claims against, such person or entity, including without limitation, any
judgment or claim for alimony, support or separate maintenance pursuant to a
domestic relations order within the meaning of Section 206(d)(3) of ERISA and
claims in bankruptcy proceedings.  Any such attempted disposition
shall be null and void. 

9.03.       Claims
Release. 

In case
of accident resulting in injury to or death of a Participant which entitles the
Participant or his or her surviving lawful spouse to benefits under the Plan,
the Participant or his or her surviving lawful spouse may elect to accept such
benefits or to prosecute such claims at law as the Participant or the surviving
lawful spouse may have against one or more Participating
Companies.  If an election is made to accept the benefits under the
Plan, such election shall be in writing and shall release such Participating
Company or such Participating Companies from all claims and demands that the
Participant or his or her surviving lawful spouse may have against it, or
against them, otherwise than under this Plan or under any other plan maintained
by a Participating Company, on account of such accident.  The right of
the Participant to a disability allowance under  Article A-2  of the Plan shall
lapse if election to accept such benefits, as above provided, is not made within
sixty days after injury, or within such greater time as the Company shall fix
for the making of such election. 

9.04.       Damage
Claims or Suits. 

Should a
claim other than under this Plan or under any other plan maintained by a
Participating Company be presented or suit brought against a Participating
Company, for damages on account of injury or death of a Participant, nothing
shall be payable under this Plan on account of such injury or death except as
provided in  Section
9.05 , provided, however, that the Company may, in its discretion and upon
such terms as it may prescribe waive this provision if such claims be withdrawn
or if such suit be discontinued. 

9.05.        Judgment
or Settlement. 

In case
any judgment is recovered against a Participating Company or any settlement is
made of any claim or suit on account of the injury or death of a Participant,
and the total amount which would otherwise have been payable under the Plan and
under any other plan maintained by the Participating Company is greater than the
amount paid on account of such judgment or settlement, the lesser of (a) the
difference between such two amounts or (b) the amount which would otherwise have
been payable under this Plan, may in the discretion of the Company, be
distributed to the beneficiaries who would have received benefits under this
Plan. 

9.06.        Forfeiture
of Benefits. 

All
Benefits to which a Participant and his or her lawful spouse would be otherwise
eligible hereunder may be forfeited, at the discretion of the Board or of the
Committee, if an individual without the Company s consent establishes a
relationship with a competitor of the Company or engages in any activity in
conflict with or adverse to the interests of the Company under the standards of
the AT T Non-Competition Guideline and as determined by the Board or the
Committee in its sole discretion.  To the extent a benefit under any
other nonqualified plan of AT T is offset by benefits payable under this
Plan, such offset shall be determined as if a forfeiture had not
occurred. 

9.07.        Payment
under Law. 

In the
case of any benefit, which the Committee shall determine to be of the same
general character as a payment provided by the Plan, shall be payable to any
participant, to his or her beneficiaries, his or her estate or his or her
annuitant under any law now in force or hereafter enacted, only the excess, if
any, of the amount prescribed in the Plan above the amount of such payment
prescribed by law shall be payable under the Plan; provided, however, that no
benefit payable under the Plan shall be reduced by reason of any governmental
benefit or pension payable on account of military service or by reason of any
benefit which the recipient would be entitled to receive under the Social
Security Act or Railroad Retirement Act.  In those cases where,
because of differences in the beneficiaries or in the time or methods of payment
or otherwise, the determination of any such excess is not ascertainable by mere
comparison but adjustments are necessary, the Committee or the Administrator, as
applicable, shall, in its discretion, determine whether or not in fact any such
excess exists and make the adjustments necessary to carry out in a fair and
equitable manner the spirit of the provision for the payment of any such
excess. 

9.08.       Governing
Law. 

To the
extent such laws are not preempted by the laws of the United States of America,
the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas, except as to its
principles of conflict of laws. 

9.09.        Severability. 

If any
section, clause, phrase, provision or portion of this Plan or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance shall be invalid or unenforceable under
any applicable law, such event shall not affect or render invalid or
unenforceable the remainder of this Plan and shall not affect the application of
any section, clause, provision, or portion hereof to other persons or
circumstances. 

9.10.       Facility
of Payment. 

If the
Administrator shall find that any person to whom any amount is or was payable
under the Plan is unable to care for his or her affairs because of illness or
accident, then any payment, or any part thereof, due to such person (unless a
prior claim therefore has been made by a duly appointed legal representative),
may, if the Administrator so directs AT T, be paid to the same person or
institution that benefit with respect to such person is paid or to be paid under
the Pension Plan if applicable, or the Participant s lawful spouse, a child, a
relative, an institution maintaining or having custody of such person, or any
other person deemed by the Administrator to be a proper recipient on behalf of
such person otherwise entitled to payment.  Any such payment shall be
in complete discharge of the liability of AT T, the Board, the Committee,
the Administrator, and the Participating Company therefore.  If any
payment to which a Participant or beneficiary is entitled under this Plan is
unclaimed or otherwise not subject to payment to the person or persons so
entitled, such amounts representing such payment or payments shall be forfeited
after a period of two years from the date the first such payment was payable and
shall not escheat to any state or revert to any party; provided, however, that
any such payment or payments shall be restored if any person otherwise entitled
to such payment or payments makes a valid claim. 

The
captions of the preceding the sections and articles hereof have been inserted
solely as a matter of convenience and shall not in any manner define or limit
the scope or intent of any provision of the Plan. 

AT T
shall withhold all federal, state, local or other taxes required by law to be
withheld from payments or accruals under the Plan. 

Nothing
contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of the
Plan, shall create or be construed to create a trust or contract of any kind, or
a fiduciary relationship between or among AT T, any other Participating
Company, any Affiliated Corporation, the Board, the Administrator, the
Committee, any Participant, employee, any surviving lawful spouse or any other
person. 

Neither
the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as (i) a contract of
employment or deemed to give any employee the right to be retained in the
employment of a Participating Company, the right to any level of compensation,
or the right to future participation in the Plan; or (ii) affecting the right of
the Participating Company to discharge or dismiss any employees at any
time. 

For
purposes of administering the Plan, the plan year shall begin on January 1 and
end on December 31. 

This
written Plan document is the final and exclusive statement of the terms of this
Plan, and any claim of right or entitlement under the Plan shall be determined
in accordance with its provisions pursuant to the procedures described in  Article 7 .  Unless
otherwise authorized by the Board or its delegate, no amendment or modification
to this Plan shall be effective until reduced to writing and adopted pursuant to
 Section
8.02 . 

If any
overpayment is made by the Plan for any reason, the Plan shall have the right to
recover such overpayment.  The Participant shall cooperate fully with
the Plan to recover any overpayment and provide any necessary information and
required documents. Any recovery of overpayment pursuant to this Section 9.17
may be deducted from future benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant
from this Plan. 

APPENDIX
A 

      PRIOR
PLAN PROVISIONS 

This Appendix A sets forth the
provisions related to the determination of benefit amounts and payment of such
benefits payable to or with respect to a Participant whose employment terminated
prior to December 1, 2008.  A reference in this Appendix A to a
provision of Article 2, Article 3 or Article 4 means such provision as set forth
in this Appendix A, unless the reference specifically indicates
otherwise. 

ARTICLE
A-2 

      DISABILITY
ALLOWANCE 

2.01    

(a) 

A
      Participant shall be considered to be  disabled  at any time during the
      first fifty-two week period (or twenty-six week period for a Participant
       disabled  on or after January 1, 2004) following the onset of a physical
      or mental impairment, if such impairment prevents the Participant from
      meeting the performance requirements of the position held immediately
      preceding the onset of the physical or mental
  impairment. 

(b) 

A
      Participant shall be considered to be  disabled  after the first fifty-two
      week period (or twenty-six week period for a Participant  disabled  on or
      after January 1, 2004) following the onset of a physical or mental
      impairment if such impairment prevents the Participant from meeting the
      performance requirements of (1) the position held immediately preceding
      the onset of the physical or mental impairment, (2) a similar position, or
      (3) any appropriate position with the Company or any other Participating
      Company which the Participant would otherwise be capable of performing by
      reason of the Participant s background and
  experience. 

(c) 

The
      Administrator shall make the determination of whether a Participant is
      disabled within the meaning of paragraph (a) above; the Committee shall
      make such determination with respect to paragraph (b)
    above. 

(d) 

Notwithstanding
      the preceding, for purposes of the Plan, a Participant shall not be
      considered disabled with respect to any disability that commences after
      December 31, 2007. 

2.02  

(a) 

A
      Participant who is disabled, before January 1, 2004, during a period
      described in  Section
      2.01(a)  shall be eligible to receive a monthly disability allowance
      equal to one hundred percent of the Participant s monthly base salary rate
      on the last day the Participant was on the active payroll, reduced by any
      amounts described in  Section 2.05(a)  which
      are attributable to the period for which benefits are provided under this
       Section 2.02 . 

(b) 

A
      Participant who is disabled, on or after January 1, 2004, during a period
      described in  Section
      2.01(a)  shall be eligible to receive a weekly disability allowance
      equal to one hundred percent of the Participant s salary rate on the last
      day the Participant was on the active payroll, reduced by any amounts
      described in  Section
      2.05(a)  which are attributable to the period for which benefits are
      provided under this  Section 2.02.   The
      disability allowance provided under this  Section 2.02(b)  shall
      commence on the eighth consecutive day of the Participant s absence from
      work due to his or her disability, and end on the earlier of (i) the date
      the Participant ceases to be disabled under  Section 2.01(a) , or (ii)
      the last day of the twenty-sixth week after commencement of the short-term
      disability benefit. 

2.03.           (a)  

A
      Participant who is disabled, before January 1, 2004, during a period
      described in  Section
      2.01(b)  shall, prior to his or her sixty-fifth birthday, be
      eligible to receive a monthly disability allowance equal to sixty percent
      of the Participant s monthly base salary rate on the last day the
      Participant was on the active payroll, reduced by any amounts described in
       Section 2.05(b) 
      which are attributable to the period for which benefits are provided under
      this  Section
      2.03 . 

(b) 

A
      Participant who is disabled, on or after January 1, 2004, during a period
      described in  Section
      2.01(b)  shall, prior to his or her sixty-fifth birthday, be
      eligible to receive a weekly disability allowance equal to sixty percent
      of the Participant s salary rate on the last day the Participant was on
      the active payroll, reduced by any amounts described in  Section 2.05(b)  which
      are attributable to the period for which benefits are provided under  Section
      2.03 .  Benefits under this  Section 2.03(b)  shall be
      payable if the Participant remains disabled as a result of the same
      physical or mental impairment resulting in the payment of disability
      benefits under  Section
      2.02(b) .  The disability allowance provided under this
       Section 2.03(b) 
      shall commence on the twenty seventh week following the date when the
      Participant commenced receiving disability benefits under  Section 2.02(b)  and
      shall end on the earlier of (i) the date the Participant ceases to be
      disabled under  Section
      2.01(b) , or (ii) the Participant s sixty-fifth
      birthday. 

2.04.   

A
      Participant who is disabled during a period described in  Section 2.01(b)  shall
      commencing with his or her sixty-fifth birthday or the start of the period
      described in  Section
      2.01(b) , if later, be eligible to receive a monthly disability
      allowance equal to the greater of: 

(i)   

one
      and one-quarter percent of the Participant s Annual Basic Pay, as defined
      in  Section 1.04 ,
      on the last day the Participant was on the active payroll,
    or 

(ii)   

if
      the Participant s Term of Employment has been five years or more, ninety
      percent of the sum of (a) the monthly pension the Participant would have
      been entitled to receive commencing at age sixty-five under the Pension
      Plan (as in effect on the last day the Participant was on the active
      payroll, but ignoring any minimum service requirements for eligibility to
      a pension), if the period after the last day the Participant was on the
      active payroll and prior to the Participant s sixty-fifth birthday had
      been included in the Participant s Term of Employment as of the end of the
      applicable averaging period under the Pension Plan, plus (b) the monthly
      pension the Participant would have been entitled to receive commencing at
      age 65 under the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan (as in effect on the
      last day the Participant was on the active payroll, but ignoring any
      minimum service requirements for eligibility to a pension), if the period
      after the last day the Participant was on the active payroll and prior to
      the Participant s sixty-fifth birthday had been included in the
      Participant s Term of  Employment as of the end of the
      applicable averaging period under the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan,
      reduced by any amounts described in  Section 2.05(c)  that are
      attributable to the period for which benefits are provided under this
      paragraph. 

2.05.   

(a)  

The
      Disability allowance determined for any period under  Section 2.02  shall be
      reduced by the sum of the following benefits received by the Participant
      which are attributable to the period for which such disability allowance
      is provided: a service pension, deferred vested pension, or disability
      pension under the Pension Plan, a pension under the AT T Excess
      Benefit and Compensation Plan, a pension under the AT T Non-Qualified
      Pension Plan, a pension under the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan, an
      accident disability benefit or sickness disability benefit under the
      Disability Benefit Plan, any Workers  Compensation Benefit, plus any
      comparable benefits provided under the plans or programs of any Successor
      Plan Sponsor and any other benefit payments required by law on account of
      the Participant s disability.  However, no reduction shall be
      made on account of any pension under the Pension Plan at a rate greater
      than the rate of such pension on the date the Participant first received
      such pension after his or her disability, and no reduction shall be made
      on account of any pension under the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan,
      the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, or the AT T
      Mid-Career Pension Plan at a rate greater than the rate of such pension,
      including adjustments if any to reflect post-retirement incentive awards
      to the Participant under the Short Term Plan, as of the first date the
      Participant was entitled to receive such pension after his or her
      disability. 

(b) 

The
      disability allowance determined for any period under  Section 2.03  shall be
      reduced by the sum of the following benefits received by the Participant
      which are attributable to the period for which such disability allowance
      is provided: a service pension, deferred vested pension or disability
      pension under the Pension Plan, a pension under the AT T Excess
      Benefit and Compensation Plan, a pension under the AT T Non-Qualified
      Pension Plan, a pension under the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan, an
      accident disability benefit under the Disability Benefit Plan, any other
      retirement income payments from the Participant s Participating Company or
      any Successor Plan Sponsor, any Workers  Compensation Benefit, plus any
      Social Security Insurance Benefit.  However, no reduction shall
      be made on account of any pension under the Pension Plan at a rate greater
      than the rate of such pension on the date the Participant first received
      such pension after his or her disability, and no reduction shall be made
      on account of any pension under the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan,
      the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, or under the AT T
      Mid-Career Pension Plan at a rate greater than the rate of such pension,
      including adjustments if any to reflect post-retirement incentive awards
      to the Participant under the Short Term Plan, as of the first date the
      Participant was entitled to receive such pension after his or her
      disability, and no reduction shall be made on account of any Social
      Security Benefit at a rate greater than the rate which the Participant
      would have first been eligible to receive after his or her disability and
      as if no other members of his or her family were eligible for any Social
      Security Benefit. 

Furthermore,
      the Board, in its discretion, may reduce the disability allowance by the
      amount of outside compensation or earnings of the Participant for work
      performed by the Participant during the period for which such disability
      allowance is provided. 

(c) 

The
      disability allowance determined for any period under  Section 2.04  shall be
      reduced by the sum of the following benefits received by the Participant
      which are attributable to the period for which such disability allowance
      is provided: a service pension, deferred vested pension or disability
      pension under the Pension Plan, a pension under the AT T Excess
      Benefit and Compensation Plan, a pension under the AT T Non-Qualified
      Pension Plan, a pension under the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan, an
      accident disability benefit under the Disability Benefit Plan, any other
      retirement income payments from the Participant s Participating Company or
      any Successor Plan Sponsor, plus any Workers  Compensation
      Benefit.  However, no reduction shall be made on account of any
      pension under the Pension Plan at a rate greater than the rate of such
      pension on the date the Participant first received such pension after his
      or her disability, and no reduction shall be made on account of any
      pension under the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan, the AT T Excess
      Benefit and Compensation Plan, or under the AT T Mid-Career Pension
      Plan at a rate greater than the rate of such pension, including
      adjustments if any to reflect post-retirement incentive awards to the
      Participant under the Short Term Plan, as of the first date the
      Participant was entitled to receive such pension after his or her
      disability. 

2.06.  

For
      purposes of  Sections
      2.01(a) and 2.01(b) , the measurement of time following the onset of
      a physical or mental impairment shall coincide with the measurement of
      time used to calculate periods of Sickness and Accident Disability
      Benefits under Sections 4 and 5 of the Disability Benefit
      Plan.  Successive periods of physical or mental impairment shall
      be counted together in computing the periods during which the Participant
      shall be entitled to the benefits provided under  Sections 2.02 and 2.03 ,
      except that any disability absence after the Participant has been
      continuously engaged in the performance of duty for thirteen weeks shall
      be considered to commence a new period of physical or mental impairment
      under  Section
      2.01(a) , so that such Participant shall be entitled during such new
      period to the benefits provided under  Section 2.02 . 

2.07.  

With
      respect to a Participant not subject to mandatory retirement at age 65
      under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (29 U.S.C. 631), the period
      of eligibility for the disability allowance provided in  Section 2.03  and the
      period of eligibility for the disability allowance provided in  Section 2.04 , shall be
      the period described in  Section 2.03 , and the
      period described in  Section 2.04 ,
      respectively, or such other period as is required under the Age
      Discrimination in Employment Act or under any applicable governing
      regulations or interpretations
thereunder. 

ARTICLE
A-3 

      MINIMUM
RETIREMENT BENEFIT 

3.01.  

The
      Minimum Retirement Benefit shall be payable as described
      herein: 

(a) 

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 3.01(b) with respect to a Participant who
      terminates employment after December 31, 1997, a Participant described in
       Section 1.11(a) 
      whose Term of Employment has been five years or more and is not disabled,
      who terminates employment on or after his or her sixty-second birthday, or
      a Participant described in  Section 1.11(b)  who is
      retired on a service pension under the Pension Plan, shall be eligible to
      receive a monthly minimum retirement benefit equal to one and one-quarter
      percent of Participant s Annual Basic Pay, as defined in  Section 1.04 , on the
      last day the Participant was on the active payroll reduced by the sum of
      the following benefits received by the Participant which are attributable
      to the period for which benefits are provided under this  Article 3 : a service
      pension or deferred vested pension under the Pension Plan, a pension under
      the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, a pension under the
      AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan, a pension under the AT T
      Mid-Career Pension Plan, and by any other retirement income payments
      received by the Participant from his or her Participating Company or from
      a Successor Plan Sponsor.  However, no reduction shall be made
      on account of any pension under the Pension Plan at a rate greater than
      the rate of such pension on the date the Participant first received such
      pension after his or her retirement or other termination of employment,
      and no reduction shall be made on account of any pension under the
      AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan, the AT T Excess Benefit and
      Compensation Plan, or under the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan at a rate
      greater than the rate of such pension, including adjustments if any to
      reflect post-retirement incentive awards to the Participant under the
      Short Term Plan, as of the first date the Participant was entitled to
      receive such pension after his or her retirement or other termination of
      employment. 

(b)   

The
      provisions of this Section 3.01(b) apply with respect to a Participant who
      terminates employment on or after January 1, 1998.  A
      Participant described in  Section 1.11(a)  whose
      Term of Employment has been five years or more and is not disabled, who
      terminates employment on or after his or her sixty-second birthday, or a
      Participant described in  Section 1.11(b)  who is
      Service Pension Eligible at the time of his or her termination of
      employment, shall be eligible to receive a monthly minimum retirement
      benefit equal to one and one-quarter percent of Participant s Annual Basic
      Pay, as defined in  Section 1.04 , on the
      last day the Participant was on the active payroll reduced by an offset
      which is the sum of the benefits, determined in accordance with the
      following Section 3.01(c),  accrued under the Pension Plan, the
      AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, the AT T Non-Qualified
      Pension Plan, the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan, and by any other
      retirement income payments received by the Participant from his or her
      Participating Company or from a Successor Plan Sponsor ( Offset Plans ),
      which are attributable to the period for which benefits are provided under
      this  Article
      3 .  However, no reduction shall be made on account of any
      pension under the Pension Plan at a rate greater than the rate of such
      pension on the date the Participant first received such pension after his
      or her retirement or other termination of employment, and no reduction
      shall be made on account of any pension under the AT T Non-Qualified
      Pension Plan, the AT T Excess Benefits and Compensation Plan, or under
      the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan at a rate greater than the rate of
      such pension, including adjustments if any to reflect post-retirement
      incentive awards to the Participant under the Short Term Plan, as of the
      first date the Participant was entitled to receive such pension after his
      or her retirement or other termination of
  employment. 

(c) 

The
      following rules shall apply for purposes of determining the offset
      described in the preceding Section 3.01(b), effective for pensions that
      commence under this Plan on or after January 1, 1998 and prior to December
      31, 2008: 

(i)   

with
      respect to a Participant who commences distribution of all of his or her
      pension benefit under the Pension Plan simultaneously with commencement of
      distribution of benefits under this Plan, the offset is the sum of the
      monthly benefit payable to the Participant under the Offset Plans, or,
      with respect to the portion of the benefit paid under such Offset Plan in
      a form other than a monthly annuity, the monthly single life annuity that
      is the actuarial equivalent of the amount paid in a form other than a
      monthly annuity. For purposes of this Section 3.01(c)(i), actuarial
      equivalence is determined pursuant to the provisions of the applicable
      Offset Plan; and 

(ii)   

with
      respect to a Participant who does not commence distribution of all of his
      or her pension benefit under the Pension Plan simultaneously with
      commencement of distribution of benefits under this Plan, the offset shall
      be determined (I) in accordance with Section 3.01(c)(i) with respect to
      the portion of the benefit under the Offset Plans that commences
      simultaneously with commencement of distribution under this Plan, and (II)
      with respect to the portion of the benefit under the Offset Plans that
      does not commence simultaneously with distribution under this Plan, the
      amount that would be payable, with respect to such portion of the benefit,
      in the form of a single life annuity under such Offset Plan, if such
      single life annuity payment commenced simultaneously with distribution of
      benefits under this Plan. 

3.02.  

If
      an amendment to the Pension Plan effective on or after January 1, 1988 and
      before December 31, 2004, provides for an increase in the service pensions
      of previously retired employees, then a Participant s minimum retirement
      benefit shall be increased pursuant to the same terms and conditions as
      are set forth in such Pension Plan
amendment. 

3.03.  

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 3.03 in the main text of the Plan regarding
      payment to Specified Employees, payment of the Minimum Retirement Benefit
      shall commence at the Participant s Termination of
    Employment. 

3.04  

A
      Participant who terminated employment before January 1, 1997 with
      eligibility for a service pension or a disability pension under the
      Pension Plan shall receive a special pension increase, effective July 1,
      1999, in accordance with the following
schedule: 

(a)   

a
      Participant who terminated employment before January 1, 1976 shall receive
      an increase in his or her minimum retirement benefit of
    15%; 

(c)   

a
      Participant who terminated employment after December 31, 1985 and before
      January 1, 1991 shall receive an increase in his or her minimum retirement
      benefit of 10%; 

(d)   

a
      Participant who terminated employment during the 1991 calendar year shall
      receive an increase in his or her minimum retirement benefit of
      9%; 

(e)   

a
      Participant who terminated employment during the 1992 calendar year shall
      receive an increase in his or her minimum retirement benefit of
      8%; 

(f)   

a
      Participant who terminated employment during the 1993 calendar year shall
      receive an increase in his or her minimum retirement benefit of
      7%; 

(g)   

a
      Participant who terminated employment during the 1994 calendar year shall
      receive an increase in his or her minimum retirement benefit of
      6%; 

(h)   

a
      Participant who terminated employment during the 1995 calendar year shall
      receive an increase in his or her minimum retirement benefit of 5%;
      and 

(i)   

a
      Participant who terminated employment during the 1996 calendar year shall
      receive an increase in his or her minimum retirement benefit of
      4%. 

ARTICLE
A-4 

      SURVIVING
SPOUSE BENEFIT 

4.01.             (a)   

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.02 with respect to the Spouse of a
      Participant who terminates employment after December 31, 1997, in the
      event of the death of a Participant, who is described in  Section 1.11(c) , the
      surviving lawful spouse of such Participant shall be eligible to receive a
      monthly benefit equal to one and one-quarter percent of the Participant s
      Annual Basic Pay, as defined in  Section 1.04 , on the
      last day the Participant was on the active payroll prior to his or her
      death reduced by the sum of the following benefits received by the
      Participant s surviving lawful spouse on account of the death of the
      Participant and which are attributable to the period for which benefits
      are provided under this  Article 4 : an
      annuitant s pension under the Pension Plan, an annuity under the Insured
      Annuitant s Plan, an annuitant s pension under the AT T Excess Benefit
      and Compensation Plan, an annuitant s pension under the AT T
      Non-Qualified Pension Plan and any other lifetime payments to such
      surviving lawful spouse from the Participant s Participating Company or
      from any Successor Plan Sponsor.  However, no reduction shall be
      made on account of an annuitant s pension under the Pension Plan, or on
      account of an annuitant s pension under the AT T Non-Qualified Pension
      Plan or on account of an annuitant s pension under the AT T Excess
      Benefit and Compensation Plan, or on account of any annuity under the
      Insured Annuitant s Plan at a rate greater than (1) the rate of such
      pension or annuity on the date such pension or annuity was first payable
      in the case of the death of a Participant who is on the active payroll or
      (2) the rate of such pension or annuity on the date such pension or
      annuity first would have been payable had the Participant died on the day
      after the last day the Participant was on the active payroll in the case
      of the death of a Participant who is not on the active
      payroll. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding
      the preceding, if the benefit to the surviving spouse commences on or
      after January 1, 1998, and the surviving spouse does not simultaneously
      commence distribution of benefits under the Pension Plan, the reductions
      described in the preceding paragraph (a) shall be determined as if
      payments to the surviving spouse commenced in the form of a single life
      annuity at the same time as payments commence under this
    Plan. 

(c) 

Notwithstanding
      the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b), with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment after December 31, 2004 and prior to December 1,
      2008, if the Participant commenced distribution of the benefit under the
      Pension Plan prior to his or her death, but distribution of such benefit
      did not commence on or before December 1, 2008, the benefit payable to a
      surviving spouse pursuant to this Section 4.01 shall be further reduced by
      the single life annuity benefit, if any, which would have been payable to
      the Participant commencing on December 1, 2008 from the AT T Excess
      Benefits and Compensation Plan and from the AT T Non-Qualified Pension
      Plan 

4.02.  

Notwithstanding
      any provision of  Section
      4.01  to the contrary, the surviving lawful spouse of a Participant
      shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this  Article 4  if, prior to
      the Participants death, the Participant could have elected under the
      Pension Plan or under any predecessor pension plan maintained by a
      Participating Company to receive a reduced pension for his or her life in
      order to provide thereafter an annuity for the life of his or her lawful
      spouse, but he declined to make such an election. Effective for payments
      with respect to a Participant who terminates employment after December 31,
      1997 and dies after commencement of distribution of the Pension Plan, the
      provisions of this Section 4.02 shall be applied as follows, to reflect
      the expanded optional forms of payment available under the Pension
      Plan: 

(a) 

if
      the Participant elected a lump sum or single life annuity form of payment
      under the Pension Plan, no surviving spouse benefit shall be paid under
      this Plan; 

(b) 

if
      the Participant elected the cash payment option (with residual annuity)
      under the Pension Plan, the benefit otherwise payable to the Surviving
      Spouse pursuant to Section 4.01 shall be reduced by the actuarial
      equivalent, determined as a single life annuity, of the amount of the cash
      payment made to the Participant pursuant to the cash payment
      option. 

4.03  

If
      an amendment to the Pension Plan effective on or after January 1, 1988 and
      before December 31, 2004, provides for an increase in the survivor
      annuities payable under said Plan, then the Surviving Spouse Benefit
      payable under  Section
      4.01  above shall be increased pursuant to the same terms and
      conditions as are set forth in such Pension Plan amendment, except that no
      such increase shall apply to the Surviving Spouse Benefit related to a
      deceased Participant who had not terminated employment or died prior to
      the effective date of such
amendment. 

4.04.  

The
      Surviving Spouse Benefit payable under  Section 4.01  above shall
      be increased, effective July 1, 1999, in accordance with the following
      schedule: 

(a)   

if
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit is with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment before January 1, 1976, the Surviving Spouse Benefit
      shall be increased by 15%; 

(b)   

if
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit is with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment after December 31, 1975 and before January 1, 1986,
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit shall be increased by
  12.5%; 

(c)   

if
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit is with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment after December 31, 1985 and before January 1, 1991 ,
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit shall be increased by
  10%; 

(d)   

if
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit is with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment during the 1991 calendar year, the Surviving Spouse
      Benefit shall be increased by 9%; 

(e)   

if
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit is with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment during the 1992 calendar year, the Surviving Spouse
      Benefit shall be increased by 8%; 

(f)   

if
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit is with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment during the 1993 calendar year, the Surviving Spouse
      Benefit shall be increased by 7%; 

(g)   

if
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit is with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment during the 1994 calendar year, the Surviving Spouse
      Benefit shall be increased by 6%; 

(h)   

if
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit is with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment during the 1995 calendar year, the Surviving Spouse
      Benefit shall be increased by 5%;
and 

(i)   

if
      the Surviving Spouse Benefit is with respect to a Participant who
      terminated employment during the 1996 calendar year, the Surviving Spouse
      Benefit shall be increased by 4%. 

APPENDIX
B 

      Annual
Pay Definition Prior to 1991 

Section
1.  Definition of Annual Basic Pay 

For
retirements occurring after August 10, 1980, and before April 15, 1991, the
following was the applicable definition of  Annual Basic Pay : 

Annual
Basic Pay  shall mean the Participant s annual base salary rate on the last day
the Participant was on the active payroll plus, with respect to a Participant
whose last day on the active payroll occurred after August 9, 1980, an amount
determined with reference to the Short Term Plan, but excluding all
differentials regarded as temporary or extra payments and all cash payments and
distributions made under the Long Term Plan.  The amount determined
with reference to the Short Term Plan shall be the lesser of the Participant s
standard Short Term Award in effect on the last day the Participant was on the
active payroll or the Participant s position rate on the last day the
participant was on the active payroll multiplied by the applicable percentage
determined as follows: 

</EX-10.XX>

<EX-10.AAA>
 26
 ex10aaa.htm
 BELLSOUTH SUPPLEMENTAL LIFE INSURANCE PLAN

ex10aaa.htm 

Exhibit
10-aaa 

BELLSOUTH
SUPPLEMENTAL LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

Amended
and Restated Effective December 31, 2008 

The
purpose of the BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance Plan (the "Plan") is to
provide an insurance arrangement under which BellSouth Corporation and its
subsidiaries and affiliates can assist key employees in acquiring and financing
life insurance coverage. 

During
the period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, the Plan has been
operated in good faith compliance with the provisions of Code Section 409A,
Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, the proposed Treasury Regulations for
Code Section 409A, the Final Treasury Regulations for Code Section 409A,
applicable Internal Revenue Services Notices and Announcements and any other
generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue Service
Bulletin. 

2.   

DEFINITIONS 

For
purposes of this Plan, the following terms have the meanings set forth
below: 

2.01 

" Coverage Amount " means
      the Policy death benefit payable under the Participant's
      Policy. 

2.02 

" Coverage Level " means
      the Single Life Coverage insurance death benefit the Employee is eligible
      for under the Plan, determined based on the Employee's job classification,
      in accordance with the schedule of Coverage Levels maintained by the Plan
      Administrator. Provided ,however, that to determine the amount of
      insurance (death benefit for which an Employee is eligible, the applicable
      amount from the schedule of Coverage Levels shall be reduced by one
      hundred percent (100%) of the amount of any Single Life Coverage insurance
      death benefit and by fifty percent (50%) of the amount of any Survivorship
      Coverage insurance death benefit provided to the Employee under the
      BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan, the BellSouth Corporation
      Executive Life Insurance Plan, or the BellSouth Corporation Senior Manager
      Life Insurance Plan. 

2.03 

" Disability " means that
      the Participant is receiving disability benefits under any long-term
      disability plan sponsored by the Employer or an affiliated
      entity. 

2.05 

" Employee " means an
      employee or former employee of the Employer who is eligible to participate
      in the Plan. 

2.06 

" Employer " means
      BellSouth Corporation and any subsidiary or affiliate of BellSouth
      Corporation which is authorized by the Plan Administrator to participate
      in this Plan. 

2.07 

" Employer Premium " means,
      with respect to a Participant's Policy, the Total Policy Premium payable
      for the year, less the portion of the premium to be paid by the
      Participant pursuant to Section 5.01 of the
  Plan. 

2.08 

" Enrollment Age " means
      the Participant's age at the time of enrollment in the Plan as to the
      Participant's initial Coverage Amount under the Plan, and it means the
      Participant's age at a subsequent enrollment for an increased Coverage
      Amount as to the increased Coverage
Amount. 

2.09 

" Insurance Cost " means,
      with respect to a Participant, the annual cost for the Participant's
      Coverage Amount determined pursuant to the Insurance Cost schedule
      maintained by the Plan Administrator. The Insurance Cost for a Participant
      shall be determined at the time of the Participant's enrollment in the
      Plan, based on the Participant's Coverage Amount and Enrollment Age, and
      shall not change thereafter. A smoker rate shall be used to determine the
      Insurance Cost for any Participant who is deemed a smoker by the Insurer;
      a nonsmoker rate shall be used for all other Participants. A change in the
      Insurance Cost schedule will be effective only as to Plan enrollments
      occurring after the effective date of the change; it shall not affect the
      Insurance Cost for a Participant with respect to any Coverage Amount in
      effect for the Participant prior to the effective date of the change. If a
      Participant's coverage is in effect for a period of less than twelve (12)
      months during any Policy Year, the Participant's Insurance Cost for that
      year shall be determined by multiplying the annual cost as determined from
      the Insurance Cost schedule by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
      number of full months that the coverage is in effect and the denominator
      of which is twelve (12). 

2.10 

" Insurer " means, with
      respect to a Participant's Policy, the insurance company issuing the
      insurance policy on the Participant's life (or on the joint lives of the
      Participant and the Participant's spouse, in the case of a Survivorship
      Policy) pursuant to the provisions of the
Plan. 

2.11 

"  Participant "   means an Employee who is
      participating in the Plan.  

2.12 

" Participant Premium "
      means, with respect to each Policy Year (or portion thereof) for a
      Participant, the Participant's Insurance
Cost. 

2.13 

" Permanent Policy " means
      a Participant's Policy having cash values which are projected to be
      sufficient to continue to provide death benefit coverage at least equal to
      the Participant's Coverage Amount until the policy maturity date specified
      in the Participant's Policy (determined without regard to any Policy rider
      which extends the maturity date beyond the originally scheduled policy
      maturity date), and which is projected to have a cash accumulation value
      equal to at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the Policy Coverage Amount
      at the maturity date specified in such Policy, with no further premium
      payments. The determination of whether a Policy is at a given time a
      Permanent Policy shall be made by the Plan Administrator, based on Policy
      projections provided by the Insurer or its agent utilizing the Policy's
      then current mortality rates and Policy expenses, and the following Policy
      interest crediting rates. For the Policy Year in which the determination
      is made and for all prior Policy years, if any, the Policy projection
      shall be based on the actual interest crediting rates in effect for the
      Policy (or, if such rate is not known when the determination is made, the
      actual rate in effect for the preceding Policy Year). For each of the ten
      (10) succeeding Policy Years, the projections shall reflect that rate
      decreased ratably such that the rate for the tenth Policy Year following
      the Policy Year in which the determination is made shall be five percent
      (5%). For all successive Policy Years, the projection shall reflect a five
      percent (5%) Policy interest crediting rate. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, if the interest crediting rate in effect for the Policy Year in
      which the determination is made is less than five percent (5%), the
      projections shall reflect such lower rate for all Policy Years
      thereafter. 

2.14 

" Plan " means the
      BellSouth Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, embodied
    herein. 

2.15 

" Plan Administrator "
      means the Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth Corporation and any
      individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with respect to
      any or all of his responsibilities hereunder; provided, the Board of
      Directors of BellSouth Corporation may designate any other person or
      committee to serve in lieu of the Chief Executive Officer as the Plan
      Administrator with respect to any or all of the administrative
      responsibilities hereunder. 

2.16 

" Policy " means the life
      insurance coverage acquired on the life of the Participant (or on the
      joint lives of the Participant and the Participant's spouse, in the case
      of a Survivorship Policy) by the Participant or other Policy Owner issued
      pursuant to the terms of this Plan. The Plan Administrator shall determine
      the specific policies which may be acquired under the Plan, and shall
      maintain a list of approved
policies. 

2.17 

" Policy Owner " means the
      Participant or that person or entity to whom the Participant has assigned
      his interest in the Policy. 

2.18 

" Policy Year " means the
      twelve month period (and each successive twelve month period) beginning on
      the issue date of the Policy. 

2.19 

" Premium Payment Years "
      means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the number of consecutive
      Policy Years, beginning with the first Policy Year, and continuing for the
      longer of: (1) all Policy Years ending at the end of the Policy Year
      during which the Participant attains age sixty-two (62) (or, if the
      Participant dies before such time, the end of the Policy Year during which
      the Participant would have attained such age); or (2) five (5) Policy
      Years. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if prior to the end of such period
      the Policy qualifies as a Permanent Policy, the Premium Payment Years
      shall end at such earlier time. 

2.20 

" Retirement " means a
      termination of the Participant's employment with the Employer under
      circumstances where the Participant is immediately eligible to receive
      pension benefits under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP)
      maintained by the Employer or one of its
  subsidiaries. 

2.21 

" Single Life Coverage "
      means life insurance coverage on the life of the
    Participant. 

2.22 

Specified Employee  
      shall mean, for periods on or after December 29, 2006, any Participant who
      is a  Key Employee  (as defined in Code Section 416(i) without regard to
      paragraph (5) thereof), as determined by AT T in accordance with its
      uniform policy with respect to all arrangements subject to Code Section
      409A, based upon the 12-month period ending on each December 31 st 
      (such 12-month period is referred to below as the  identification
      period ).  All Participants who are determined to be Key
      Employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5)
      thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Key
      Employees for purposes of the Plan during the 12-month period that begins
      on the first day of the 4 th 
      month following the close of such identification period.  For
      periods prior to December 29, 2006, the term Specified Employee shall mean
      a  specified employee  under Code Section
409A. 

2.23 

" Survivorship Coverage "
      means life insurance coverage on the lives of the Participant and the
      Participant's spouse, with the life insurance death benefit to be payable
      at the death of the last survivor of the Participant and the Participant's
      spouse. 

2.24 

" TotaI Policy Premium "
      means the level annual premium amount for the Participant's Single Life
      Coverage Policy that is projected to result in the Policy qualifying as a
      Permanent Policy if the annual premium amount is paid each year for all
      scheduled Premium Payment Years, assuming the Participant qualifies for
      the Insurer's guaranteed issue nonsmoker rates, or if the Participant is
      deemed by the Insurer to be a smoker, the Insurer's guaranteed issue
      smoker rates. The determination as to the amount of the Total Policy
      Premium shall be based on Single Life Coverage even if the Participant
      elects Survivorship Coverage. If more than one type of Single Life
      Coverage Policy is available under the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall
      determine the Single Life Coverage Policy to be used to determine the
      Total Policy Premium. The Total Policy Premium for a Participant shall be
      determined when the Participant enrolls for coverage under the Plan, and
      shall not be changed thereafter; it shall be based on the Participant's
      Coverage Level, or, if less, the actual Coverage Amount elected by the
      Participant. 

3.           ELIGIBILITY 

3.01 

General .  Each
      Employee who is designated by the Plan Administrator as a member of the
      Employer's "executive compensation group  or as a "senior manager" shall
      be eligible to participate in the Plan, provided that the Employee (and
      any other appropriate party, such as the Employee's spouse or a Policy
      Owner other than the Employee as determined by the Plan Administrator)
      relinquishes any rights to or interests in any policies providing interim
      coverage during the rehabilitation of Confederation Life Insurance Company
      under the BellSouth Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan or the
      BellSouth Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance Plan and completes
      such other forms as the Plan Administrator may require. Each such Employee
      on the Effective Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as of
      the Effective Date. Each Employee subsequently satisfying such eligibility
      requirements shall be eligible to participate in the Plan effective as of
      the first day of the calendar quarter (i.e., January 1, April 1, July 1,
      and October 1) following the date on which such standards are
      satisfied. 

3.02 

Type of
      Coverage .  If an Employee is married at the time the
      Employee enrolls in the Plan, the Employee can elect to participate in
      either Single Life Coverage or Survivorship Coverage. An Employee who is
      unmarried at the time the Employee enrolls in the Plan shall be eligible
      for Single Life Coverage only. The election of one type of coverage shall
      not preclude the Participant from electing the other type of coverage as
      to any increased Coverage Level the Participant becomes eligible for
      pursuant to Section 4.02 of the
Plan. 

3.03 

Conversion of
      Coverage .  Subject to any proof of insurability required
      by the Insurer, a Participant (or other Policy Owner) can elect to convert
      Survivorship Coverage to Single Life Coverage, and with respect to a
      married Participant, the Participant (or other Policy Owner) can elect to
      convert Single Life Coverage to Survivorship Coverage. Provided, however,
      that the number of Premium Payment Years for a Participant shall not be
      redetermined in connection with a conversion from one type of coverage to
      another. Upon a conversion, the cash values of the replaced Policy shall
      be transferred to the new Policy in accordance with the Insurer's
      practices. Any Insurer charges or tax liability resulting from a
      conversion shall be borne by the Participant or other Policy
      Owner. 

4.           AMOUNT
OF COVERAGE 

4.01 

General .  An
      Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan under Section 3.01 of
      the Plan shall be eligible for the full Coverage Level as specified in the
      Plan under Section 2.02. However, within sixty (60) days of becoming
      eligible to participate, a Participant can elect a Coverage Amount which
      is less than the applicable Coverage Level; provided, however, that the
      Coverage Amount elected must be an even multiple of $100,000. If a
      Participant elects a Coverage Amount less than the Participant's Coverage
      Level (or fails to elect any Coverage), the Participant cannot later
      increase the Coverage Amount except in connection with a promotion under
      Section 4.02 of the Plan. 

4.02 

Promotions .  Employees
      promoted to a job classification or position eligible for an increased
      Coverage Level shall be eligible for the increased Coverage Level
      effective as of the first day of the calendar quarter (i.e., January 1,
      April 1, July 1, and October 1) following the promotion. The additional
      Coverage Amount available to the Participant under this Section shall be
      equal to the applicable Coverage Level after the promotion reduced by any
      Coverage Amounts already in effect for a Participant. In order to be
      effective, any election for an increase in the Coverage Amount must be
      made within the time period prescribed by the Plan Administrator in
      enrollment materials provided to the
Employee. 

4.03 

Survivorship
      Coverage .  If a Participant elects Survivorship Coverage,
      the amount of Survivorship Coverage will be determined by the Plan
      Administrator based on the Participant's age and smoker or nonsmoker
      status, the age and insurability of the Participant's spouse, and based on
      the Participant's Total Policy Premium. The Coverage Amount shall be the
      highest amount such that the Policy will qualify as a Permanent Policy if
      the Total Policy Premium is paid for each year that is a scheduled Premium
      Payment Year. 

5.           PAYMENT
OF PREMIUMS 

5.01 

Participant Premium
      Payments .  A Participant shall pay the Participant
      Premium for each Policy Year which is a Premium Payment Year for the
      Participant. The amount shall be paid by the Participant to the Employer
      by payroll (or retirement income) deductions of equal installments during
      the Policy Year, or in such other manner as may be determined by the Plan
      Administrator. The Employer shall pay the Participant Premium amount to
      the Insurer, and can do so as collected from the Participant or can
      advance payments to the Insurer for a Policy Year at any time during the
      Policy Year or up to thirty (30) days in advance of the Policy Year. If a
      Participant terminates employment with the Employer, and the Employer has
      made such an advance payment of the Participant Premium to the Insurer,
      the Employer may withhold any uncollected portion of the advanced
      Participant Premium from any amount payable to the Participant by the
      Employer to the extent permitted by law. Notwithstanding the other
      provisions of this paragraph, no Participant Premium shall be required
      with respect to Survivorship Coverage after the death of the
      Participant. 

5.02 

Employer Premium
      Payments .  The Employer shall pay the Employer Premium
      for a Participant's Policy within thirty (30) days of the beginning of
      each Policy Year which is a Premium Payment
  Year. 

Notwithstanding
any other Plan provision to the contrary, if a Participant (who was not earned
and vested in all deferred compensation under the plan as of December 31, 2004
and thus was not grandfathered from the requirements of Code Section 409A)
incurs a  separation from service  (within the meaning of Code Section 409A) on
or after January 1, 2005, and at the time of such separation from service, the
Participant is a Specified Employee who is eligible to continue participation
due to his Retirement or Disability, then payment of any Employer Premium shall
be delayed until the date that is six months after the Participant s separation
from service. 

5.03 

Additional Employer Premium
      Payments .  For each of the last three (3) scheduled
      Premium Payment Years for a Participant, the Plan Administrator shall
      determine whether there will be any increased Employer premium payment
      with respect to a Participant's Policy. The Plan Administrator shall first
      determine whether the Participant's Policy is then projected to qualify as
      a Permanent Policy if the Total Policy Premium is paid each year for the
      remaining scheduled Premium Payment Years. If the Policy is projected to
      qualify as a Permanent Policy, no increased Employer Premium payment shall
      be required for such Premium Payment Year. If the projections indicate
      that the Policy will not qualify as a Permanent Policy, then the amount
      payable by the Employer under Section 5.02 shall be increased by an amount
      which will result in the Policy qualifying as a Permanent Policy if such
      increased amount is paid for each remaining Premium Payment Year, but any
      such increase in Employer Premium shall be limited by the maximum premium
      amounts permissible for such Policy under Internal Revenue Code Sections
      7702 and 7702A (or comparable successor sections) without forfeiting any
      of the favorable tax attributes associated with life insurance policies.
      The determination as to whether any increased amount is payable shall be
      made separately for each of the last three (3) Premium Payment Years.
      However, the Employer Premium payable under Section 5.02 shall not be
      reduced to an amount that is less than the amount which would have been
      payable by the Employer for a Premium Payment Year without regard to this
      Section 5.03. Regardless of the type of coverage actually provided to a
      Participant, and notwithstanding any changes in the type of coverage
      provided to the Participant under Section 3.03, the increased Employer
      Premium payable under this Section 5.03 shall be the amount that would be
      payable if the Participant had elected Single Life Coverage and maintained
      such coverage for all Policy Years; also, if more than one type of Single
      Life Coverage Policy is available under the Plan, the Single Life Coverage
      Policy used to determine Total Policy Premium under Section 2.24 shall be
      used to make the determination under this Section 5.03. In the event tax
      law limits preclude the Employer from qualifying a Policy as a Permanent
      Policy by the end of the last scheduled Premium Payment Year, then the
      Employer's obligation to pay premiums under Section 5.02 and 5.03 (and
      make additional Employer payments under Section 5.04) shall be extended
      until projections indicate that the Policy qualifies as a Permanent
      Policy. 

5.04                       Additional Employer
Payments . 

a.           If
the payment of an Employer Premium under Section 5.02 (or any increased amount
under Section 5.03) results in the recognition of income for tax purposes by the
Participant in any year, the Employer shall pay to the Participant an amount
determined by the Plan Administrator which is designed to approximate (1) the
sum of the total federal and state income taxes and applicable payroll taxes
which would be payable by the Participant at the highest marginal rate provided
for under applicable federal income tax laws, and at the highest marginal rate
provided for under applicable state income tax laws for the state of the
Participant's tax domicile, on the income so recognized, plus (2) the total
federal and state income taxes and applicable payroll taxes which would be
payable by the Participant on the payment described in clause (1). 

b.          
  If the
payment of any Employer Premium under Section 5.02 (or any increased amount
under Section 5.03) on Survivorship Coverage after the death of the Employee
results in the recognition of income for tax purposes by the Participant's
spouse or other Policy Owner, the Employer shall pay to the Participant's spouse
or other Policy Owner an amount determined by the Plan Administrator which is
designed to approximate the total federal and state income taxes which would be
payable by the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner at the highest
marginal rate provided for under applicable federal income tax laws, and at the
highest marginal rate provided for under applicable state income tax laws for
the state of the tax domicile of the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner,
attributable to such premium payment. 

c.          
  For
purposes of this Section 5.04, a tax shall be deemed payable or income shall be
deemed recognized if either (i) it is finally determined by the Internal Revenue
Service, or (ii) an opinion is given by the Employer's counsel, that the tax is
payable. 

d.           Any
payment made to a Participant or a Participant's spouse under this Section shall
be made no later than April 1 of the year following the year to which the
payment relates. 

e.           Any
amount to be paid to a Participant, a Participant's spouse, or other Policy
Owner under this Section, and the amounts payable, shall be conclusively
determined by the Plan Administrator based on generally applicable tax rates and
not based upon the unique tax situation of each Participant, Participant's
spouse, or other Policy Owner. 

5.05                       Termination of Obligation to Pay
Premiums .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
Employer's obligation to pay premiums (including any increased amounts under
Section 5.03) with respect to the Participant's Policy, shall terminate upon the
first to occur of any of the following events: 

a. 

Termination
      of employment of the Participant with the Employer prior to the
      Participant's death for reasons other than Retirement or
      Disability. 

b. 

The
      written notice by the Employer to the Participant following a resolution
      by the Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation to terminate this
      Plan. 

c. 

As
      to Single Life Coverage only, the death of the
  Participant. 

d. 

As
      to Survivorship Coverage only, the death of the last survivor of the
      Participant and the Participant's
spouse. 

e. 

The
      surrender or cancellation of the Participant's Policy, except that a
      Policy will not be considered surrendered or canceled if the surrender or
      cancellation is in connection with the replacement of the Policy with
      another Policy pursuant to the provisions of the
  Plan. 

f. 

The
      withdrawal of any Policy cash values, or borrowing against the Policy cash
      values, by the Participant or other Policy
  Owner. 

g. 

The
      reduction of the Participant's Policy death benefit to a level that is
      less than the initial Policy Coverage Amount, except that a conversion
      from Survivorship Coverage to Single Life Coverage shall not be considered
      a reduction in Policy death benefit for the purpose of this
      Section. 

h. 

The
      determination by the Plan Administrator that the Policy will qualify as a
      Permanent Policy with no further Employer Premium
  payments. 

6.           POLICY
OWNERSHIP 

6.01 

Ownership .  The
      Policy Owner shall be the sole and exclusive owner of a Participant's
      Policy and shall be entitled to exercise all of the rights of
      ownership. 

6.02 

Possession of
      Policy .  The Policy Owner shall keep possession of the
      Policy. 

7.           GOVERNING
LAWS   NOTICES 

7.01 

Governing
      Law .  This Plan shall be governed by and construed in
      accordance with the laws of the State of
  Georgia. 

7.02 

Notices .  All
      notices hereunder shall be in writing and sent by first class mail with
      postage prepaid. Any notice to the Employer shall be addressed to
      BellSouth Corporation at its office at 1155 Peachtree Street, N.E.
      ,Atlanta. GA 30367-6000, ATIENTION: Human Resources   Director Executive
      Benefits. Any notice to the Employee shall be addressed to the Employee at
      the address for the Employee maintained in the Employer's records. Any
      party may change the address for such party herein set forth by giving
      notice of such change to the other parties pursuant to this
      Section. 

8.           NOT
A CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT 

This Plan
shall not be deemed to constitute a contract of employment between an Employee
and the Employer or a Participant and the Employer, nor shall any provision
restrict the right of the Employer to discharge an Employee or Participant, or
restrict the right of an Employee or Participant to terminate
employment. 

9.           AMENDMENT,
TERMINATION, ADMINISTRATION, CONSTRUCTION 

      AND
SUCCESSORS 

9.01 

Amendment .  The
      Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation, or its delegate, shall have
      the right in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan in whole or in part at
      any time and from time to time. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall
      have the right, in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan at any time and
      from time to time so long as such amendment is not of a material nature.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, no modification or amendment shall be
      effective so as to decrease any benefits of a Participant unless the
      Participant consents in writing to such modification or amendment. Written
      notice of any material modification or amendment shall be given promptly
      to each Participant. 

9.02 

Termination .  The
      Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation may terminate the Plan without
      the consent of the Participants or
Employees. 

The Plan
shall be terminated effective December 31, 2008 for employees who are actively
employed by the Company on December 31, 2008. The Plan shall continue with its
current terms for Participants who are former employees as of December 31,
2008. 

9.03 

Successors .  The
      terms and conditions of this Plan shall enure to the benefit of and bind
      the Employer, the Participant, their successors, assignees, and
      representatives. If, subsequent to the Effective Date of the Plan,
      substantially all of the stock or assets of the Employer are acquired by
      another corporation or entity or if the Employer is merged into, or
      consolidated with, another corporation or entity, then the obligations
      created hereunder shall be obligations of the acquirer or successor
      corporation or entity. 

10.           PLAN
ADMINISTRATION 

10.01 

Individual
      Administrator .  If the Plan Administrator is an
      individual, he shall act and record his actions in writing. Any matter
      concerning specifically such individual's own benefit or rights hereunder
      shall be determined by the Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation or
      its delegate. 

10.02 

Administrative
      Committee .  If the Plan Administrator is a committee, or
      if any of the duties or responsibilities of the Plan Administrator are
      vested in a committee, action of the Plan Administrator may be taken with
      or without a meeting of committee members; provided, action shall be taken
      only upon the vote or other affirmative expression of a majority of the
      committee members qualified to vote with respect to such action. If a
      member of the committee is a Participant, he or she shall not participate
      in any decision which solely affects his or her own benefit under the
      Plan.  For purposes of administering the Plan, the Plan
      Administrator shall choose a secretary who shall keep minutes of the
      committee's proceedings and all records and documents pertaining to the
      administration of the Plan. The secretary may execute any certificate or
      other written direction on behalf of the Plan
    Administrator. 

10.03 

Rights and Duties of the Plan
      Administrator .  The Plan Administrator shall administer
      the Plan and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish that purpose,
      including (but not limited to) the
following: 

a. 

to
      construe, interpret and administer the
Plan; 

b. 

to
      make determinations required by the Plan, and to maintain records
      regarding Participants' benefits
hereunder; 

c. 

to
      compute and certify the amount and kinds of benefits payable to
      Participants, and to determine the time and manner in which such benefits
      are to be paid; 

d. 

to
      authorize all disbursements pursuant to the
  Plan; 

e. 

to
      maintain all the necessary records of the administration of the
      Plan; 

f. 

to
      make and publish such rules and procedures for the regulation of the Plan
      as are not inconsistent with the terms
hereof; 

g. 

to
      designate to other individuals or entities from time to time the
      performance of any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder;
      and 

h. 

to
      hire agents, accountants, actuaries, consultants and legal counsel to
      assist in operating and administering the
Plan. 

The Plan
Administrator shall have the exclusive right to construe and interpret the Plan,
to decide all questions of eligibility for benefits and to determine the amount
of benefits, and its decisions on such matters shall be final and conclusive on
all parties. 

10.04 

Bond;
      Compensation .  The Plan Administrator and (if applicable)
      its members shall serve as such without bond and without compensation for
      services hereunder. 

11.           CLAIMS
PROCEDURE 

11.01 

Named
      Fiduciary .  The Plan Administrator is hereby designated
      as the named fiduciary under this
Plan. 

11
      .02 

Claims
      Procedures .  Any controversy or claim arising out of or
      relating to this Plan shall be filed with the Plan Administrator which
      shall make all determinations concerning such claim. Any decision by the
      Plan Administrator denying such claim shall be in writing and shall be
      delivered to all parties in interest in accordance with the notice
      provisions of Section 7.02 hereof. Such decision shall set forth the
      reasons for denial in plain language. Pertinent provisions of the Plan
      shall be cited and, where appropriate, an explanation as to how the
      Employee can perfect the claim will be provided. This notice of denial of
      benefits will be provided within 90 days of the Plan Administrator's
      receipt of the Employee's claim for benefits. If the Plan Administrator
      fails to notify the Employee of its decision regarding the claim, the
      claim shall be considered denied, and the Employee shall then be permitted
      to proceed with the appeal as provided in this
  Section. 

An
Employee who has been completely or partially denied a benefit shall be entitled
to appeal this denial of his/her claim by filing a written statement of his/her
position with the Plan Administrator no later than sixty (60) days after receipt
of the written notification of such claim denial. The Plan Administrator shall
schedule an opportunity for a full and fair review of the issue within thirty
(30) days of receipt of the appeal. The decision on review shall set forth
specific reasons for the decision, and shall cite specific references to the
pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based. 

Following
the review of any additional information submitted by the Employee, either
through the hearing process or otherwise, the Plan Administrator shall render a
decision on the review of the denied claim in the following manner: 

a.   

The
      Plan Administrator shall make its decision regarding the merits of the
      denied claim within sixty (60) days following receipt of the request for
      review (or within 120 days after such receipt, in a case where there are
      special circumstances requiring extension of time for reviewing the
      appealed claim). The Plan Administrator shall deliver the decision to the
      claimant in writing. If an extension of time for reviewing the appealed
      claim is required because of special circumstances, written notice of the
      extension shall be furnished to the Employee prior to the commencement of
      the extension. If the decision on review is not furnished within the
      prescribed time, the claim shall be deemed denied on
    review. 

b.   

The
      decision on review shall set forth specific reasons for the decision, and
      shall cite specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which
      the decision is based. 

</EX-10.AAA>

<EX-10.EEE>
 27
 ex10eee.htm
 BELLSOUTH NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED INCOME PLAN

ex10eee.htm 

Exhibit
10-eee 

BELLSOUTH
NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED INCOME PLAN 

(As
amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005) 

BELLSOUTH NONQUALIFIED
DEFERRED INCOME PLAN  

(As
amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005) 

BellSouth Corporation ( BellSouth )
established on the first (1st) day of September, 1985, the BellSouth
Nonqualified Deferred Income Plan ( Plan ) for certain employees of BellSouth
and its subsidiaries, and the Plan was subsequently amended from time to
time.  The Plan is now hereby amended and restated, effective as of
the lst day of January, 2005, and as so amended and restated is intended to
comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, with respect to all benefits under the Plan that are subject
to Section 409A.  Subject to the limitations contained in Article 2 of
the Plan, and except as expressly provided herein, the Plan as so amended and
restated shall hereafter apply to all Deferral Agreements, including those
executed before this effective date, under the Plan. 

ARTICLE
I  

DEFINITIONS  

1.1            Base
Salary  means the gross salary of the Participants, including the amount of any
before-tax basic and supplemental contributions to the BellSouth Retirement
Savings Plan or similar contributions to a comparable plan maintained by a
Participating Company and the amount of any other deferrals from gross salary
under any nonqualified deferred compensation plans which may be maintained by a
Participating Company from time to time. 

1.1A        CEO 
means the Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth. 

1.1B         Change
in Control Severance Plan  means a severance plan (or plans) adopted under the
terms of the Company Disclosure Letter to the Merger Agreement (as defined in
Section 1.5D below). 

1.1C         Code 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

1.2            Compensation 
means Net Monthly Salary. 

1.3            Compensation
Rate  means the cash compensation of a Participant, including (i) annual
Base Salary rate in effect on the date the Deferral Agreement is executed, and
(ii) standard lump-sum award amount(s) in effect under incentive compensation
programs on the date the Deferral Agreement is executed.  For
Participants employed by Participating Companies whose compensa tion
structures do not readily fit within this definition, Compensation Rate means
cash compensation as defined by the CEO. 

1.4            Deferral
Agreement  means an agreement pursuant to which deferral elections under this
Plan are made and includes a standard Deferral Agreement, substantially in the
form of Exhibit A hereto, a Deferral Agreement for deferral of certain lump-sum
payments, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, and other agreements
approved from time to time for use in connection with this Plan as described in
Article 2. 

1.4A         Disabled 
or  Disability  means, with respect to a Non-Grandfathered Participant, any of
the following: 

(a)           the
inability of the Participant to engage in any substantial gainful activity by
reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be
expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period
of not less than 12 months; or 

(b)           the
Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement
benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health
plan covering employees of the Employer. 

1.4B         Effective
Date  means January 1, 2005, the date as of which the Plan is amended and
restated. 

1.5            Employer 
means (i) BellSouth and (ii) any subsidiary of BellSouth authorized by BellSouth
to enter into Deferral Agreements pursuant to this Plan. 

1.5A         ERISA 
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended. 

1.5B          Executive
Severance Agreement  means a BellSouth executive change in control agreement
entered into by and between an executive who is a Participant in this Plan and
BellSouth, as amended and/or superseded from time to time, providing certain
benefits in the event of a change in corporate control of
BellSouth. 

1.5C          Grandfathered
Participant  means any Participant other than a Non-Grandfathered
Participant. 

1.5D          Merger 
means the planned merger, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as
of March 4, 2006 (the  Merger Agreement ), by and among BellSouth, AT T Inc.
( AT T ), and ABC Consolidation Corp., a Georgia corporation and
wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T ( Merger Sub ), pursuant to which, at the
 Effective Time  (as defined in the Merger Agreement), BellSouth will be merged
with and into the Merger Sub. 

1.5E           Net
Credited Service  shall have the same meaning as is given such term in the
BellSouth Personal Retirement Account Pension Plan, under the terms of such plan
in effect on the Effective Date. 

1.6           
 Net Monthly Salary  means the amount of a Participant s Base Salary which
actually is paid to him or her in any month, net of all withholding, allotments,
and deductions other than any reduction as a result of participation in this
Plan. 

1.6A          Non-Grandfathered
Participant  means any Participant who (a) is described in Section 5.5A, Section
5.5B or Section 5.5C, or (b) otherwise first becomes eligible for a Retirement
benefit, or dies or becomes Disabled, on or after January 1, 2005. 

1.7           
 Participant  means an employee who is authorized by the CEO or his delegated
representative to participate in the Plan and to execute a Deferral
Agreement. 

1.7A          Participating
Company  means (i) BellSouth and (ii) any corporate Subsidiary at least eighty
percent (80%)of the capital stock of which is owned by BellSouth or by one or
more eighty percent (80%) owned Subsidiaries, which has been designated by
BellSouth for participation in this Plan. 

1.7B             Plan Administrator  means the
CEO and any individual or committee he designates to act on his behalf with
respect to any or all of his responsibilities hereunder; provided, the CEO may
designate any other person or committee to serve as the Plan Administrator with
respect to any or all of the administrative responsibilities
hereunder. 

1.8           
 Plan Year  means (i) January 1, 1986 through December 31, 1986 and (ii)
each and every calendar year thereafter through 1996.  For certain
Participants designated by the CEO,  Plan Year  also means calendar year 1997 or
calendar year 1998. 

1.8A          Rabbi
Trust Agreements  means each and all of the: (i) BellSouth Corporation Trust
Under Executive Benefit Plan(s); (ii) BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Trust
Under Executive Benefit Plan(s); (iii) BellSouth Enterprises, Inc. Trust Under
Executive Benefit Plan(s); (iv) BellSouth Corporation Trust Under Executive
Benefit Plan(s) for Mobile Systems Executives; (v) BellSouth Corporation Trust
Under Executive Benefit Plan(s) for Advertising and Publishing Executives; and
(vi) Trust Under Executive Benefit Plan(s) for Certain BellSouth Companies; in
each case, as amended from time to time. 

1.8B           Responsible
Officer  means the officer elected by the Employer s Board of Directors (or
similar governing body) responsible for human resources matters for the
Employer. 

1.9           
 Retirement  means any termination by a Participant who is (or would be)
eligible for a pension, other than a deferred vested pension, under the terms
and conditions of the BellSouth Personal Retirement Account Pension Plan, or
comparable plan maintained by the Participating Company employing the
Participant, under the terms of such plans in effect on the Effective
Date. 

With respect to any Participant who, at
the time eligibility for Retirement is determined, is not eligible to
participate in either the BellSouth Personal Retirement Account Pension Plan or
a comparable plan maintained by the Participating Company employing the
Participant,  Retirement  means the termination of employment by the Participant
if at such time (A) the sum of (i) plus (ii) equals or exceeds seventy-five
(75) years where (i) is the Participant s whole years and whole months of age
and (ii) is the Participant s whole years and whole months of Net Credited
Service, and (B) the Participant s Net Credited Service is at least ten
(10) years (the  Rule of 75 ).  For purposes of the Rule of 75, Net
Credited Service shall include the Participant s period of service with any
Subsidiary both prior to and after the time such Subsidiary became a
Subsidiary. 

Additionally,  Retirement  means (i)
any termination by a Participant who is (or would be) eligible for a service
benefit under terms and conditions of the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan ( SERP ), under the terms of SERP in effect on the
Effective Date, (ii) any termination by a Participant who has attained age 62 or
older and whose Net Credited Service is ten (10) years or more at the time
of employment termination, (iii) any termination by a Participant who separates
from service under the BellSouth Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), the
BellSouth Enterprises Employee Career Transition Plan (ECTP), the BellSouth
Telecommunications, Inc. Career Transition Assistance Plan (BST CTAP), the
BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Career Transition Assistance
Plan-Professional (BST CTAP-P), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Employee
Separation Assistance Plan (ESAP), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc.
Competitive Management Restaffing Plan (CMRP), the BellSouth
Telecommunications, Inc. Leadership Repositioning Plan (LRP), the BellSouth
Telecommunications, Inc. Competitive Sourcing Transition Assistance Plan -
Information Technology (CSTAP-IT), the BellSouth Advertising   Publishing
Corporation Voluntary Management Separation Pay Plan (VMSPP), or a designated
successor to any such plan, or other severance arrangement approved by
the CEO as applicable to this Plan, and (iv) any termination by a
Participant who separates from service under the BellSouth Voluntary
Transition Incentive Plan (VTIP) and whose Net Credit Service is ten years or
more at the time of such separation. 

1.10           Section
409A  means Code Section 409A and the Treasury regulations or other
authoritative guidance issued thereunder.  Whenever the terms  subject
to Section 409A  or  to the extent permitted by Section 409A  (or any such
similar reference so as to indicate that a Plan provision is subject to Section
409A) are used, such terms shall be interpreted to mean that the applicable Plan
provision shall be effective only if and to the extent such provision would not
trigger penalty taxes or interest under Section 409A. 

1.11           Subsidiary 
means any corporation other than BellSouth which is a member of the same
controlled group of corporations, within the meaning of Code Section 414(b), as
BellSouth and any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) which is under
common control with BellSouth, within the meaning of Code Section
414(c). 

ARTICLE
2  

TERM;
AMENDMENT  

This Plan shall be effective until
terminated by the CEO.  This Plan originally provided for 1986 through
1998 with Plan specifications and interest rates being established by the CEO
for each separate Plan Year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
deferrals will be permitted under the Plan except with respect to the Plan Years
described in Section 1.8 and then only to the extent authorized by the
CEO. 

This Plan may be amended, renewed, or
restated by the CEO; provided that no such action shall accelerate or postpone
the time or schedule of payment of any Plan benefits except as may be permitted
under Code Section 409A and regulations thereunder.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, no contractual right created by and under any Deferral Agreement
on the date of termination or amendment shall be abrogated by the termination or
amendment of this Plan unless the Participant who executed such Deferral
Agreement consents.  Participants have no other right or interest in
the continuance of this Plan in any form. 

ARTICLE
3  

ADMINISTRATION;
INTERPRETATION  

3.1            Claims
Procedure . 

(a)            Initial Claim . Claims
for benefits under the Plan may be filed with the Plan Administrator on forms or
in such other written documents, as the Plan Administrator may
prescribe.  The Plan Administrator shall furnish to the claimant
written notice of the disposition of a claim within 90 days after the
application therefor is filed.  In the event the claim is denied, the
notice of the disposition of the claim shall provide the specific reasons for
the denial, citations of the pertinent provisions of the Plan, and, where
appropriate, an explanation as to how the claimant can perfect the claim and/or
submit the claim for review. 

(b)            Appeal .  Any
Participant or Beneficiary who has been denied a benefit shall be entitled, upon
request to the Plan Administrator, to appeal the denial of his
claim.  The claimant (or his duly authorized representative) may
review pertinent documents related to the Plan and in the Plan Administrator s
possession in order to prepare the appeal.  The request for review,
together with written statement of the claimant s position, must be filed with
the Plan Administrator no later than 60 days after receipt of the written
notification of denial of a claim provided for in Section 3.1(a).  The
Plan Administrator s decision shall be made within 60 days following the filing
of the request for review.  If unfavorable, the notice of the decision
shall explain the reasons for denial and indicate the provisions of the Plan or
other documents used to arrive at the decision. 

3.2            Interpretation .  The
Plan Administrator shall have the exclusive responsibility and complete
discretionary authority to control the operation and administration of the Plan,
with all powers necessary to properly carry out such responsibility, including
without limitation the full and exclusive power (i) to interpret the terms
of this Plan and any Deferral Agreement, including the power to construe
ambiguous or uncertain terms (ii) to establish reasonable procedures with
which Participants must comply to exercise any right established under the Plan
or any Deferral Agreement, (iii) to determine status, coverage, eligibility for
and the amount of benefits, and all questions arising in connection therewith,
and (iv) to resolve all questions that arise in the operation and
administration of this Plan.  The rights and duties of Participants
and other persons and entities are subject to, and governed by, such acts of
administration, interpretations, procedures, and delegations.  All
actions or determinations of the Plan Administrator or its delegates under this
Article 3 shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons. 

3.3            Post-Merger Plan
Administration .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this Plan, following the Merger, responsibility for administration of the Plan
shall be determined under the terms of the Rabbi Trust Agreements.  As
provided in the Rabbi Trust Agreements, claims for benefits, appeals of benefit
denials and Plan interpretations shall be made by a  Trust Contractor  or
 Independent Fiduciary  (as such terms are defined in the Rabbi Trust
Agreements), as the case may be.  At any time during which a Trust
Contractor or Independent Fiduciary shall, under the terms of the Rabbi Trust
Agreements, have such Plan administrative responsibilities, the term  Plan
Administrator  as used in this Plan shall refer to such Trust Contractor or
Independent Fiduciary. 

ARTICLE
4  

DEFERRAL
AGREEMENT  

4.1            Election to
Defer .  As hereinafter provided and subject to acceptance by an
Employer, (a) a Participant may elect to reduce the amount of Compensation which
will be paid to him or her during any Plan Year by executing and delivering to
his or her Employer in a timely fashion a standard Deferral Agreement,
substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, and (b) a Participant may elect
to reduce the amount of a lump-sum payment to which he or she may become
entitled prior to 1997 in connection with separation under the BellSouth Career
Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), the BellSouth Enterprises Employee Career
Transition Plan (ECTP), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Career Transition
Assistance Plan (BST CTAP), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Career
Transition Assistance Plan Professional (BST CTAP-P), the BellSouth
Telecommunications, Inc. Employee Separation Assistance Plan (ESAP), the
BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Competitive Management Restaffing Plan
(CMRP), the BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Leadership Repositioning Plan
(LRP), the BellSouth Advertising   Publishing Corporation Voluntary
Management Separation Pay Plan (VMSPP), the BellSouth Voluntary Transition
Incentive Plan (VTIP) or a designated successor to any such plan, or other
severance arrangement approved by the CEO as applicable to this Plan, by
executing and delivering to his or her Employer in a timely fashion a Deferral
Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto; provided that
subsection (b) of this Section 4.1 shall apply to a Participant separating under
the BellSouth Voluntary Transition Incentive Plan (VTIP) only if the
Participant s Net Credited Service is ten (10) years or more at the time of such
separation. 

4.2            Creation of Contractual
Obligation .  An Employer which accepts a properly executed and
timely delivered Deferral Agreement agrees to pay to the Participant or his or
her Designated Beneficiary, as defined in Section 6.1, the benefits described in
Article 5, which shall be calculated based upon (i) the amount deferred by each
Participant, (ii) interest rate established for each Plan Year by the CEO or his
delegate and applied to that amount annually, (iii) the time which elapses
between the Plan Year of deferral and the date of benefit payments, and (iv)
other factors established in this Plan and by the CEO or his
delegate. 

An Employer s senior executive officer
or Responsible Officer is authorized to accept and approve a properly executed
Deferral Agreement on behalf of that Employer under
Section 4.2. 

4.3            Timing of
Election .  A Participant may execute and deliver to his or her
Employer a standard Deferral Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit A
hereto, on or before November 30 of any calendar year to reduce the
Participant s Compensation only for the next subsequent Plan Year.  In
addition, a Participant may execute and deliver to his or her Employer a
Deferral Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, in connection
with a lump-sum payment described in Section 4.1(b) of this Plan within the time
period prescribed by his or her Employer, but in no event later than the day
preceding the day on which individuals are selected for separation under such
program by the Employer. 

Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Plan or any Deferral Agreement, no Deferral Agreement shall be effective to
defer Compensation (or other amounts) which is earned by any Participant on or
before the date upon which the Deferral Agreement is properly executed and
timely delivered to the Participant s Employer. 

4.4            Amount of
Deferral .  (a) A Participant may elect to defer during any Plan
Year a dollar amount which is less than or equal to a specified percent of his
or her Compensation Rate applicable to the Plan Year rounded to the next highest
one thousand dollars.  The CEO shall establish the specified percent
of the Compensation Rate applicable to each Plan
Year.  Notwithstanding any provision of a Deferral Agreement or this
Plan to the contrary, the Deferral Agreement of a Participant, with regard to a
deferral described in this paragraph (a) shall be modified automatically if
necessary such that all actual reductions pursuant to his or her Deferral
Agreement are made from his or her Net Monthly Salary. 

(b)           A
Participant may elect to defer a portion of a lump-sum payment to which he or
she may become entitled as described in Section 4.1(b) in an amount not to
exceed (i) a dollar amount which is less than or equal to the maximum deferral,
if any, which such Participant could elect under paragraph (a) of this Section
4.4 at the time of election, and (ii) the dollar amount by which any election of
deferrals under paragraph (a) of this Section 4.4 for the Plan Year in which the
Participant terminates employment have not been satisfied at the time of
termination of employment, except as may be otherwise approved by the
CEO. 

4.5            No Deferrals Since
1998 .   No deferrals have been permitted under the Plan
since Plan Year 1998.  No current or future deferrals shall be
permitted under the Plan. 

ARTICLE
5  

PAYMENT OF
BENEFITS  

5.1            Retirement
Benefit .  (a)  If a Participant terminates employment
with his or her Employer and is not immediately reemployed by another Employer
(or, in the case of a Non-Grandfathered Participant, by a Subsidiary), and such
termination constitutes a Retirement, or upon any subsequent termination from
such an entity that constitutes a Retirement, then the Employer shall pay to the
Participant the annual Retirement benefit stated in his or her Deferral
Agreements on those dates specified in each Deferral Agreement.  The
Employer shall also make any Retirement benefit payment to a Participant who has
remained employed with the Employer (or with another Employer or a Subsidiary)
through the date specified for such payment in his or her Deferral
Agreement.  Except as hereinafter provided, the Retirement benefit
payment(s) which will be stated in a Participant s Deferral Agreement shall be a
number of payments equal to the lesser of (i) fifteen (15) and (ii) the
remainder of eighty (80) minus the age at which Retirement benefit payments
commence pursuant to this Section.  The Retirement benefit shall be
paid as soon as administratively practicable after the first (1st) day of
January following the calendar year in which the Participant attains age
sixty-five (65).  Any such Deferral Agreement executed by a
Participant which defers amounts which would otherwise be payable to the
Participant in or after the Plan Year in which he or she attains age sixty-five
(65), however, shall provide that the first Retirement benefit payable shall be
paid as soon as administratively practicable after the first (1st) day of
January following the later of (i) the fifth (5th) anniversary of the date upon
which the Deferral Agreement is accepted by the Employer or (ii) his or her
Retirement, and that the number of Retirement benefit payments shall equal the
remainder of (i) eighty (80) minus (ii) the age at which Retirement benefit
payments commence pursuant to this Section. 

(b)           Notwithstanding
the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 5.1, to the extent
authorized in terms and conditions approved for a Plan Year by the CEO pursuant
to Article 2 of this Plan, the Employer shall pay to the Participant the
annual Retirement benefit specified in his or her Deferral Agreements on those
dates specified in each Deferral Agreement which may differ from those specified
in Section 5.1(a). 

(c)           If
a Grandfathered Participant is, on the date of termination, or becomes
thereafter a proprietor, officer, partner, or employee of, or otherwise is or
becomes affiliated with (i) any business that is in competition with any
Employer or (ii) any government agency having regulatory jurisdiction over the
business activities of any Employer, then, upon that date, no further benefit
payments shall be made to the Participant, or any other person with respect to
the Participant s participation in this Plan, under any provision or Section of
this Plan, except that, the Participant shall be paid in lump-sum as soon as
administratively practicable after the first (1st) day of January following that
date an amount equal to (i) the amount deferred pursuant to each of his or her
Deferral Agreements, (ii) plus interest on each such amount (adjusted to take
into account all payments described in clause (iii) below) credited separately
at a rate equal to the rate paid on ten (10) year United States Treasury
obligations on each date for which interest is credited, compounded quarterly,
for each Plan Year between the Plan Year to which the Deferral Agreement applies
and the Plan Year in which the act occurs or status is first attained,
inclusive, (iii) minus the amount of all Interim Distributions and any other
payments hereunder.  If the above calculation results in a negative
amount, such amount shall not be collected from, or enforced against the
Participant as a claim by his or her Employer.  This Section 5.1(c)
shall be inapplicable with respect to any Non-Grandfathered
Participant. 

5.2            Interim
Distributions .  A Participant shall be paid the benefits stated
in Paragraph 3 of his or her standard Deferral Agreements on those dates stated
in that paragraph of each such Deferral Agreement (herein referred to as
 Interim Distributions ).  However, no Interim Distribution shall be
stated in a Deferral Agreement or paid to any Participant as a result of the
Deferral Agreement if the Participant is age fifty-five (55) or older on any day
during the Plan Year to which the Deferral Agreement applies.  Except
as may be otherwise specified by the CEO, no Interim Distribution shall be paid
to a Participant on or after the date upon which the Participant or his or her
Designated Beneficiary receives any benefit or payment under any other Section
of this Plan or any other paragraph of his or her Deferral
Agreement.  No Interim Distribution shall be paid in connection with
any Deferral Agreement which does not specifically provide for such
benefits. 

5.3            Death
Benefit .  If a Participant dies on or before the date upon
which he or she is eligible for Retirement, then his or her Designated
Beneficiary, as defined in Section 6.1, shall be paid in a lump-sum as soon
as administratively practicable after the first day of January following his or
her date of death an amount equal to:  (i) the amount deferred
pursuant to each of his or her Deferral Agreements, (ii) plus interest on each
such amount (adjusted to take into account all payments described in clause
(iii) below) credited separately at the rate approved for and applicable to
his or her participation in each Plan Year for which he or she executed accepted
Deferral Agreements, such rates to be compounded quarterly for each Plan Year
between the Plan Year to which the Deferral Agreement applies and the Plan Year
in which his or her death occurs, inclusive, (iii) minus the amount of all
Interim Distributions, if any, received by the Participant or to which the
Participant is entitled on or before the date of his or her death.  If
the above calculation results in a negative amount, such amount shall not be
collected from, or enforced against the Participant as a claim by his or her
Employer. 

If a Participant dies on or after the
date upon which he or she is eligible for Retirement (as defined in
Section 1.9), whether or not he or she has in fact terminated employment,
prior to commencing receipt of benefits, or having received all benefits, as the
case may be, payable in accordance with the duly authorized Deferral Agreement
under this Plan, except as provided under Section 5.4, then his or her
Designated Beneficiary, as defined in Section 6.1, shall receive all
benefits, or continue to receive the remaining benefits, as the case may be, in
accordance with that Deferral Agreement. 

If the Participant s Designated
Beneficiary receives or is entitled to receive a benefit hereunder, then no
person or persons shall receive or be entitled to receive any benefit or payment
under any other Section or this Plan or under any Deferral Agreement,
notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or any Deferral
Agreement. 

5.4            Pre-Retirement Disability
Benefit .  If a Participant suffers a Disability or becomes
Disabled (as defined in Section 1.4A) prior to the date upon which he or she
receives or is entitled to receive a benefit under Section 5.1 or
Section 5.3, then he or she shall be paid by the Employer in a lump-sum as
soon as administratively practicable after the first (1st) day of January
following the Plan Year in which the Disability occurs an amount equal
to:  (i) the amount deferred pursuant to each of his or her Deferral
Agreements, (ii) plus interest on each such amount (adjusted to take into
account all payments described in clause (iii) below) credited separately at the
rate approved for and applicable to his or her participation in each Plan Year
for which he or she executed accepted Deferral Agreements, such rates to be
compounded annually for each Plan Year between the Plan Year to which the
Deferral Agreement applies and the Plan Year in which his or her Disability
occurs, inclusive, (iii) minus the amount of all Interim Distributions, if any,
received by the Participant or to which the Participant is entitled on or before
the date of onset of Disability.  If the above calculation results in
a negative amount, such amount shall not be collected from, or enforced against
the Participant as a claim by his or her Employer.  If the Participant
receives or is entitled to receive a benefit hereunder, then no person or
persons shall receive or be entitled to receive any benefit or payment under any
other section of this Plan or under any Deferral Agreement, notwithstanding any
other provisions of this Plan or any Deferral Agreement. 

5.5            Termination of Employment
Prior to Retirement or   Disability .  If
a Participant terminates employment with his or her Employer, and is not
immediately reemployed by another Employer (or, in the case of a
Non-Grandfathered Participant, by a Subsidiary), prior to death, Disability or
Retirement, then a benefit amount shall be paid to the Participant in a lump-sum
(or, in the case of a Grandfathered Participant, either in a lump-sum or in five
(5) annual installments, at the election of the CEO), payable as soon as
administratively practicable after the first (1st) day of January following his
or her date of termination (and anniversaries thereof in case of installments),
which amount equals (i) the amount deferred pursuant to each of his or her
Deferral Agreements, (ii) plus interest on each such amount (adjusted to take
into account all payments described in clause (iii) below) credited separately
at a rate equal to the rate on ten (10) year United States Treasury obligations
on each date for which interest is to be credited, compounded quarterly, for
each Plan Year between the Plan Year to which the Deferral Agreement applies and
the Plan Year in which the termination occurs, inclusive, (iii) minus the amount
of all Interim Distributions, if any, received by the Participant or to which
the Participant is entitled on or before the date of his or her
termination.  If the above calculation results in a negative amount,
such amount shall not be collected from, or enforced against the Participant as
a claim by his or her Employer.  If the Participant receives or is
entitled to receive a benefit hereunder, then no person or persons shall then or
thereafter receive any benefit or payment under any other Section of this Plan
or any Deferral Agreement, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or
any Deferral Agreement. 

5.5A         Termination of Employment
Under TPPS:V Prior to Retirement or Disability .  If a
Participant terminates employment with his or her Employer under the BellSouth
Corporation Transition Payment Plan for Senior Management: Voluntary ( TPPS:V )
during calendar year 2006, prior to death, Disability or Retirement, the
Participant shall be permitted to make a new payment election with respect to
the Participant s Plan benefits to have his or her entire Plan benefit paid as
if the Participant s termination of employment constituted a Retirement for all
purposes of the Plan.  Each Participant who elects to participate in
TPPS:V, and who terminates employment under the provisions of TPPS:V and
satisfies all requirements of TPPS:V, will be deemed to have made this new
payment election with respect to his or her NQDIP
benefits.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, the
new payment election described above shall in no event change payment elections
with respect to benefits that otherwise would have been paid in 2006, or to
cause payments to be made in 2006.  No new payment election may be
made pursuant to this Section 5.5A after December 31, 2006. 

5.5B         Termination of Employment
Under Change in Control Severance Plan .  A Participant (i) who
as of his or her termination of employment has not satisfied the age and service
requirements for Retirement, (ii) who will be treated under the Change in
Control Severance Plan as having satisfied such requirements upon terminating
employment under the circumstances specified therein, and (iii) who elects on or
before December 31, 2006, to be covered under these terms, shall be deemed to
have made a new payment election to have his or her entire Plan benefit paid as
if the Participant s termination of employment constituted a Retirement for all
purposes of the Plan.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this Plan, no such election made after December 31, 2006, shall be valid and the
new payment election described above shall in no event change the terms of
payment with respect to benefits that otherwise would have been paid in 2006, or
to cause payments to be made in 2006. 

5.5C         Termination of Employment
Under Executive Severance Agreement .  A Participant who has an
Executive Severance Agreement with BellSouth and (i) who as of his or her
 Termination Date  (as defined in the Executive Severance Agreement) has not
satisfied the age and service requirements for Retirement, (ii) who will be
treated under the Executive Severance Agreement as having satisfied such
requirements upon terminating employment under the circumstances specified
therein, and (iii) who elects on or before December 31, 2006, to be covered
under these terms, shall be deemed to have made a new payment election to have
his or her entire Plan benefit paid as if the Participant s termination of
employment constituted a Retirement for all purposes of the
Plan.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, no such
election made after December 31, 2006, shall be valid, and the new payment
election described above shall in no event change the terms of payment with
respect to benefits that otherwise would have been paid in 2006, or to cause
payments to be made in 2006. 

5.6            Distributions to Code
Section 409A Specified Employees .  Notwithstanding any
provision of this Plan to the contrary, with respect to any Non-Grandfathered
Participant who is a  specified employee  for purposes of Code Section 409A, no
payment of any portion of the Non-Grandfathered Participant s benefit amount
which is occasioned by the Non-Grandfathered Participant s separation from
service shall be made before the date that is six (6) months after the date of
such Participant s separation from service. 

ARTICLE
6  

MISCELLANEOUS  

6.1            Beneficiary
Designation .  If a Participant dies and, on the date of his or
her death, any benefit or benefits remain to be paid to the Participant under
the terms and conditions of this Plan, the remaining benefit or benefits shall
be paid to that person or persons designated by the Participant ( Designated
Beneficiary ) on the form provided from time to time to the Participant by his
or her Employer in accordance with the Deferral Agreement.  If the
Designated Beneficiary dies prior to completion of all payments under the
Deferral Agreement, the estate of the Designated Beneficiary shall be paid by
the Employer in a lump-sum as soon as administratively practicable after the
first (1st) day of January following the year in which the Designated
Beneficiary died.  The amount of the lump-sum will be equal to (i) the
amount deferred pursuant to each of the Participant s Deferral Agreements,
(ii) plus interest on each such amount (adjusted to take into account all
payments described in clauses (iii) and (iv) below) credited separately at the
rate approved for and applicable to the Participant s participation in each Plan
Year from which he or she executed accepted Deferral Agreements, such rates to
be compounded quarterly for each Plan Year between the Plan Year to which the
Deferral Agreement applies and the Plan Year in which the Designated
Beneficiary s death occurs, inclusive, (iii) minus the amount of all Interim
Distributions, if any received by the Participant or Designated Beneficiary,
(iv) minus the Retirement benefits paid to the Participant or Designated
Beneficiary pursuant to the Deferral Agreement(s).  If the above
calculation results in a negative amount, such amount shall not be collected
from, or enforced against the estate of the Designated
Beneficiary.  If no Designated Beneficiary has been chosen by the
Participant or if the Designated Beneficiary is not living on the date of the
Participant s death, the estate of the Participant shall be paid by the Employer
in a lump-sum as soon as administratively practicable after the first (1st) day
of January following the year in which the Participant died.  The
amount of the lump-sum shall be determined in the manner described previously in
this Section 6.1. 

6.2            Obligations of Employers Not
the Obligations of BellSouth .  The duties and obligations of
each Employer hereunder are several but not joint, each Employer is only liable
to its own employees who are Participants hereunder, and BellSouth is not liable
for the actions, omissions, duties or obligations of any other Employer
hereunder. 

6.3            Recalculation Events;
Treatment of this Plan under Applicable Federal Income Tax
Laws .  With respect to Grandfathered Participants, the adoption
and maintenance of the Plan is strictly conditioned upon (i) the applicability
of Code Section 451(a) to the Participant s recognition of gross income as a
result of his or her participation, (ii) the fact that Participants will not
recognize gross income as a result of participation in this Plan until and to
the extent that benefits are received, (iii) the applicability of Code Section
404(a)(5) to the deductibility of the amounts paid to Participants hereunder,
(iv) the fact that an Employer will not receive a deduction for amounts credited
to any accounting reserve created as a result of this Plan until and only to the
extent that benefits are paid, and (v) the inapplicability of Parts 2, 3, and 4
of Title I of ERISA to this Plan by reason of the exemptions set forth in ERISA
Sections 201(a), 301(a) and 401(a) and Part 1 of ERISA by reason of the
exemption set forth in Section 2520.104-23 of applicable United States
Department of Labor regulations.  If the Internal Revenue Service, the
Department of Labor or any court determines or finds as a fact or legal
conclusion that any of the above conditions is untrue and issues or intends to
issue an assessment, determination, opinion or report stating such, or if the
opinion of the legal counsel of BellSouth based upon legal authorities then
existing is that any of the above assumptions is incorrect, then, if the CEO so
elects within one year of such finding, determination, or opinion, a
Recalculation Event shall be deemed to have occurred. 

If a Recalculation Event occurs under
this Section 6.3, Section 6.4, or any other Section of this Plan, then
each Grandfathered Participant who has not attained the age of fifty-five (55)
years on the date on which the CEO takes official action to elect the occurrence
of a Recalculation Event shall thereafter be paid benefits in accordance with
the election made irrevocably in connection therewith in the Deferral
Agreement.  For each such Grandfathered Participant the amount of
Retirement benefit stated in the Deferral Agreement shall be recalculated and
restated using a rate of interest equal to the rate of interest on ten (10) year
United States Treasury obligations on each date upon which interest should have
been or will be calculated, compounded quarterly, instead of the interest rate
assumed in originally calculating the benefit, as referenced in Section
4.2. 

Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in this Plan or a Deferral Agreement, the benefits payable
with respect to any Participant who shall have either (i) attained the age of
fifty-five (55) years or (ii) died, on or prior to the date on which the CEO
takes official action to elect the occurrence of a Recalculation Event under
either Sections 6.3 or 6.4 of this Plan, shall not be recalculated and restated
in the manner described in such Sections or in any other way affected by such
action.  If such Participant or Designated Beneficiary receives or is
entitled to receive a benefit as result of the occurrence of a Recalculation
Event, then no person or persons shall receive or be entitled to receive any
benefit or payment under any other Section of this Plan or under any Deferral
Agreement, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or the Deferral
Agreement. 

This Section 6.3 shall be inapplicable
with respect to any Non-Grandfathered Participant. 

6.4            Changes in the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954 .  With respect to Grandfathered
Participants, the adoption and maintenance of this Plan also is strictly
conditioned upon the existence and continuation of the percentage tax rates for
corporations stated in Section 11(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as
amended through August 13, 1981 but not thereafter (the  1954
Code ).  In particular, the adoption and maintenance of this Plan is
strictly conditioned upon the rate of tax stated in Section 11(b)(5) of the 1954
Code, that is,  46 percent of so much of the taxable income as exceeds
$100,000.   If (1) 1954 Code Section 11(b) is deleted or amended or a
surtax or other addition to tax is imposed and, as a result thereof, the rate of
federal income tax imposed on taxable income of corporations in excess of One
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) is reduced below such rate in effect
immediately before reduction and is less than forty percent (40%), (2) a tax is
imposed by the federal government on income, sales, consumption, or the value of
goods and services which is not currently contained in the Code, or (3) the Code
is amended or restated so extensively that in the opinion of the legal counsel
of BellSouth the tax treatment of this Plan to the Employer has materially
changed to the detriment of the Employer, then, if the CEO so elects within one
year after the enactment of the legislation causing such event, a Recalculation
Event shall be deemed to have occurred and a benefit will be payable only as
described in Section 6.3. 

This
Section 6.4 shall be inapplicable with respect to any Non-Grandfathered
Participant. 

6.5            Governing
Law .  This Plan and the Deferral Agreements shall be construed
in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia to the extent such laws are
not preempted by ERISA. 

6.6            Successors, Mergers,
Consolidations .  The terms and conditions of this Plan and each
Deferral Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and bind BellSouth, the other
Employers, the Participants, their successors, assigns, and personal
representatives.  If substantially all of the assets of any Employer
are acquired by another corporation or entity or if an Employer is merged into,
or consolidated with, another corporation or entity, then the obligations
created hereunder and as a result of the Employer s acceptance of Deferral
Agreements shall be obligations of the successor corporations or
entity. 

6.7            Discharge of Employer s
Obligation .  The payment by the Employer of the benefits due
under each and every Deferral Agreement to the Participant or to the person or
persons specified in Section 6.1 discharges the Employer s obligations
hereunder, and the Participant has no further rights under this Plan or the
Deferral Agreements upon receipt by the appropriate person of all
benefits.  In addition, (i) if any payment is made to a Participant or
his or her Designated Beneficiary with respect to benefits described in this
Plan from any source arranged by the Employer including, without limitation, any
fund, trust, insurance arrangement, bond, security device, or any similar
arrangement, such payment shall be deemed to be in full and complete
satisfaction of the obligation of the Employer under this Plan and the Deferral
Agreements to the extent of such payment as if such payment had been made
directly by the Employer; and (ii) if any payment from a source described in
clause (i) above shall be made, in whole or in part, prior to the time payment
would be made under the terms of this Plan and the Deferral Agreement, such
payment shall be deemed to satisfy the Employer s obligation to pay Plan
benefits beginning with the benefit which would next become payable under the
Plan and the Deferral Agreement and continuing in the order in which benefits
are so payable, until the payment from such other source is fully
recovered.  In determining the benefits satisfied by a payment
described in clause (ii), Plan benefits, as they become payable, shall be
discounted to their value as of the date such actual payment was made using an
interest rate equal to the valuation interest rate for deferred annuities as
last published by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation prior to the date of
such actual payment.  If the benefits which actually become payable
under this Plan, after applying the discount described in the preceding
sentence, are less than the amount of the payment(s) described in clause (ii),
any such shortfall shall not be collected from or enforced against the
Participant as a claim by the Employer. 

6.8            Social Security and Income
Tax Withholding .  Each Participant agrees as a condition of
participation hereunder that his or her Employer may withhold federal, state,
and local income taxes and Social Security taxes from any distribution or
benefit paid hereunder. 

6.9            Notice; Delivery of Deferral
Agreement .  Any notice required to be delivered hereunder and
any Deferral Agreement is properly delivered to the Employer when personally
delivered to, or actually received from the United States mail, postage prepaid,
by Executive Compensation and Benefits Group, Room 13J08, BellSouth Corporation,
1155 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia  30309-3610, or at such
other address as the Plan Administrator shall prescribe from time to
time. 

6.10           Nature of Obligations
Created Hereunder .  The Participants agree as a condition of
participation hereunder that: 

(a)           Participants
have the status of general, unsecured creditors of the Employer and the Plan and
the Deferral Agreements constitute the mere promise by the Employer to make
benefit payments in the future; 

(b)           nothing
contained in this Plan or any Deferral Agreement shall create or be construed to
create a trust of any kind between BellSouth, any Employer, and any
Participant; 

(c)           benefits
payable, and rights to benefits under, this Plan and Deferral Agreements may not
be anticipated, sold, assigned (either at law or in equity), transferred,
pledged, encumbered or subject to attachment, garnishment, levy, execution or
other legal or equitable process. 

The Plan is intended to be unfunded for
purposes of ERISA and the Code. 

6.11            No Modification of
Employment Agreement .  Neither this Plan nor any Deferral
Agreement constitutes a modification of any employment agreement which may exist
between the Participant and the Participating Company employing the Participant,
and no right to continued employment is created by this Plan or the Deferral
Agreement. 

6.12            Liability of Employers for
Individual Participants Employed by More than One Employer; Applicability of
Deferral Agreement Filed with One Employer to Subsequent
Employers .  Any Deferral Agreement which is timely executed and
delivered to an Employer shall be effective to defer Compensation earned by the
Participant from that Employer or any other Employer during the period in which
the Deferral Agreement is effective.  The execution and delivery of a
Deferral Agreement by a Participant constitutes an election by the Participant
to defer Compensation earned from any Employer under the terms of this
Plan.  A Participant who timely executes and delivers a Deferral
Agreement to one Employer and who subsequently transfers to another Employer or
otherwise terminates employment and becomes employed by another Employer shall
have the Compensation which is paid to him or her by both Employers reduced
under the terms of the Deferral Agreement and this Plan as if the transfer or
termination and reemployment had not occurred.  The Employer which
accepts an executed, timely delivered Deferral Agreement is liable to the
Participant for all benefits which may be payable under, and as a result of,
that Deferral Agreement notwithstanding the transfer of a Participant to or from
another Employer, or the termination and reemployment of a Participant by
another Employer.  If a Participant timely executes and delivers
Deferral Agreements to more than one Employer, each Employer is singly and not
jointly liable for the Deferral Agreement or Deferral Agreements which it
accepted.  Any provision of this Plan which refers to a benefit or
payment which is payable as a result of more than one (1) Deferral Agreement
shall be construed to apply only to the Deferral Agreements delivered by that
Participant and accepted by each separate Employer of that Participant, and not
to all Deferral Agreements executed and timely delivered by one Participant or
all Participants to all Employers, each Deferral Agreement which incorporates
the terms of this constituting a separate contractual obligation of a single
Employer. 

6.13            Savings
Clause .  In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held
illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality of invalidity shall not affect
the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as
if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. 

6.14            Plan to Comply with Code
Section 409A .  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in
this Plan, each provision of this Plan shall be interpreted to permit the
deferral of compensation and the payment of deferred amounts in accordance with
Code Section 409A and any provision that would conflict with such requirements
shall not be valid or enforceable. 

Exhibit
A  

DEFERRAL
AGREEMENT  

       FOR THE BELLSOUTH
NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED INCOME PLAN  

1.            Amount of
Deferral .  I, _______________, hereby agree to participate in
the BellSouth Nonqualified Deferred Income Plan ( Plan ).  I have read
the Plan in its entirety and agree to its terms and conditions, which are
incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to the terms of the Plan, I elect to
defer from my compensation to be paid to me in Plan Year ____ the sum of
_________________ Dollars.  I understand that my Compensation which
ordinarily would be paid to me in that Plan Year will be reduced by the amount
of my deferral, and that such reduction will be made only from my gross monthly
salary, not from any bonus or incentive award which may be payable to
me. 

2.            Retirement
Benefits .  In consideration for my deferral, my Employer shall
pay to me the following benefits on the dates specified, if I am entitled to
these benefits under the terms and conditions of the Plan: 

3.            Interim
Distributions .  In consideration for my deferral, my Employer
shall pay to me the following benefits on the dates specified, if I am entitled
to these benefits under the terms and conditions of the Plan: 

4.            Recalculation
Event .  If a Recalculation Event applicable to me occurs, my
Employer shall pay to me benefits in an amount determined in accordance with the
terms and conditions of paragraph 6.3 of the Plan paid in accordance with the
terms elected below.  The undistributed balance of the recalculated
amount will continue to accumulate at the reduced rate specified in paragraph
6.3 of the Plan. 

- 

Recalculated
      amount paid in a LUMP-SUM in the year following the Recalculation
      Event. 

- 

Recalculated
      amount paid in FOUR ANNUAL PAYMENTS beginning in the year following the
      Recalculation Event. 

- 

Recalculated
      amount paid in SAME NUMBER of payments beginning on the same date as
      specified in paragraph 2 of this
Agreement. 

(All
amounts are to be paid as soon as administratively practicable after the first
of the specified year.) 

5.            Election
Irrevocable .  This election is  irrevocable  after
November 30 immediately preceding the Plan Year to which this Agreement
pertains. 

6.            Primacy of
Plan .  I recognize that I am entitled to benefits hereunder and
that this Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the
Plan. 

Participant:  
                   
                Accepted by
      Employer:   

Name
      (Print) 

Name of
      Employer   

By:  

Signature   

Its:  

Title 

Date   
                   
                Date   

Exhibit
B  

DEFERRAL
AGREEMENT  

       FOR THE BELLSOUTH
NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED INCOME PLAN  

      (For
Deferral of Lump-Sum Payments) 

THIS AGREEMENT is made this ___ day of
____________, 19__, by and between ___________________ (the  Company ) and
_____________________ (the  Employee  

W I T N E S S E T
H:  

WHEREAS, the Employee may separate from
service with the Company under the terms of an eligible separation plan or
arrangement sponsored by the Company (hereinafter, the  Separation Plan 
and 

WHEREAS, the BellSouth Nonqualified
Deferred Income Plan (the  Plan ) permits the Employee to elect irrevocably to
defer a portion of the lump-sum separation allowance to which he may become
entitled thereunder, and the Employee desires to make such
deferral; 

NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed
as follows: 

1. 

PLAN PROVISIONS
CONTROL  

The Plan, including all terms,
conditions, restrictions and limitations contained therein, is hereby
incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement for all
purposes.   The terms and conditions applicable to the plan year
of the Plan in which the Employee separates from service shall apply to
deferrals hereunder.  In interpreting the Plan for purposes of this
Agreement, the lump-sum separation allowance payable under the Separation Plan
shall not be included in the Employee s  Compensation Rate  as that term is used
in the Plan. 

2. 

CONDITIONAL
DEFERRAL  

The deferral election contained herein
shall be irrevocable by the Employee upon its submission to the Company but
shall be expressly conditioned upon the Employee s separation from service under
the Separation Plan.  If the Employee does not separate from service
under the Separation Plan, this Agreement shall be null and
void.  Neither the Company s offering of this deferral opportunity to
the Employee, the Company s acceptance of the Employee s deferral election
contained in this Agreement, nor any other provision hereof shall in any way be
construed as conferring upon the Employee any right or entitlement to any
payment under the Separation Plan. 

3. 

DEFERRAL
ELECTION(S)  

(a)           Subject
to the Plan s limitations, the Employee hereby irrevocably elects to defer from
the lump-sum separation allowance payable under the Separation Plan
__________________________ Dollars ($__________).* 

*NOTE:                      Amount
may not exceed __% of the sum of your current annual base 

        salary and lump-sum awards received in
the previous twelve (12) months. 

YES 
_______                                            NO 
_______ 

(b)           The
Employee hereby irrevocably elects to defer from the lump-sum separation
allowance payable under the Separation Plan the dollar amount by which any
election of deferrals from base salary under the Plan for the plan year of the
Plan in which the Employee separates from service has not been satisfied by the
time the Employee separates. 

YES 
_______                                            NO 
_______ 

Such amounts shall be subject to the
terms of the original Deferral 

        Agreement to which they
relate. 

I understand that the lump-sum
separation allowance payable under the Separation Plan which would otherwise
have been paid to me will be reduced by the amount of my
deferral(s). 

4. 

RETIREMENT
BENEFITS  

In consideration of my deferral
described in section 3(a) above, if any, the Company shall pay to me the
following benefits on the dates specified, if I am entitled to these benefits
under the terms and conditions of the Plan: 

Any distributions attributable to
deferral(s) under Schedule B of the Plan shall be made beginning on
_____________ in _____ annual payments. 

5. 

INTERIM
DISTRIBUTIONS  

In consideration for my deferral
described in section 3(a) above, if any, the Company shall pay to me the
following benefits on the dates specified, if I am entitled to these benefits
under the terms and conditions of the Plan: 

6. 

RECALCULATION
EVENT  

If a Recalculation Event occurs, the
Company shall pay to me benefits in an amount determined in accordance with the
terms and conditions of paragraph 6.3 of the Plan paid in accordance with the
terms elected below.  The undistributed balance of the recalculated
amount will continue to accumulate at the reduced rate specified in paragraph
6.3 of the Plan. 

Recalculated
      amount paid in a lump-sum as soon as administratively practicable after
      the first day of the year following the date of the Recalculation
      Event. 

Recalculated
      amount paid in four annual payments beginning as soon as administratively
      practicable after the first day of the year following the date of the
      Recalculation Event. 

Recalculated
      amount paid in same number of payments beginning on the same date as
      specified in paragraph 4 of this
Agreement. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has
caused this Agreement to be executed in its corporate name by a duly authorized
officer, and the Employee has hereunto set his hand, as of the date set forth
above. 

EMPLOYEE:  
                     
                  THE
      COMPANY:   

Name
      (Print) 

Name
      of Company   

By:  

Signature   

Signature

Title  

</EX-10.EEE>

<EX-10.GGG>
 28
 ex10ggg.htm
 AT&T CORP NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN

ex10ggg.htm 

Exhibit
10-ggg 

AT T
NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN 

THIS
      DOCUMENT, LIKE ALL COMPANY PLANS, PERSONNEL POLICIES OR PRACTICES, IS NOT
      A CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT.  IT IS NOT INTENDED TO CREATE, AND IT
      SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED TO CREATE, ANY CONTRACTUAL RIGHTS TO CONTINUED
      EMPLOYMENT, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND ITS
      EMPLOYEES. 

AT
      AT T CORP., THE EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP WITH EMPLOYEES COVERED BY THIS
      PLAN IS "AT-WILL."  THIS MEANS THAT EMPLOYEES HAVE THE RIGHT TO
      QUIT THEIR EMPLOYMENT AT ANY TIME AND FOR ANY REASON, AND THE COMPANY
      RESERVES THE RIGHT TO TERMINATE ANY EMPLOYEE S EMPLOYMENT, WITH OR WITHOUT
      CAUSE, AT ANY TIME FOR ANY REASON, SUBJECT TO THE RIGHTS OF ELIGIBLE
      PARTICIPANTS TO BENEFITS PROVIDED BY THIS PLAN. 

IN
      THE EVENT THERE IS A CONFLICT BETWEEN STATEMENTS IN THIS PLAN AND THE
      TERMS OF ANY OTHER BENEFIT PLAN, POLICY, OR PRACTICE, THE APPLICABLE
      BENEFIT PLAN, POLICY OR PRACTICE PROVIDING THE BENEFITS IN QUESTION WILL
      CONTROL.  AT T CORP. RESERVES THE RIGHT, AT ANY TIME, TO
      MODIFY, SUSPEND, CHANGE, OR TERMINATE ITS EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS OR
      EXECUTIVE LEVEL INCENTIVE, BENEFIT AND/OR PERQUISITE PLANS, PROGRAMS,
      POLICIES OR PRACTICES. 

As
Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 1997, Including 

      Amendments
Adopted Through December 31, 2008 

AT T
NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN 

Article
1. 

      Purpose 

This
AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan (the  Plan ) is an amendment and restatement
of predecessor programs sponsored by the Company that were first adopted on
October 1, 1980, and reflects amendments adopted through December 31,
2008.  The Plan provides supplemental pension, disability and death
benefits to certain employees of AT T Corp. ( AT T ) and its Affiliated
Corporations, as defined herein. The Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded
plan of deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly
compensated employees for purposes of Title I of ERISA.  Except as
otherwise indicated herein, the provisions of this amended and restated AT T
Non-Qualified Pension Plan shall apply only with respect to a Participant, as
defined herein, who terminates employment on or after January 1, 1997. For
former employees who terminated employment before January 1, 1997, the
provisions of the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan in effect on the date of
the former employee s termination of employment shall govern. 

Effective
January 1, 1997, the Plan was amended to provide a Special Update to the Basic
Formula and a Special Update to the Alternate Formula, for employees who were
actively employed and participating in the Plan on January 1,
1997.  Effective January 1, 1998, the Plan was amended to discontinue
ongoing benefit accruals for employees other than Officers, to implement a Cash
Balance Formula as the only formula providing ongoing accruals, and to provide
for the transfer of the benefit accrued as of December 31, 1996 under the
AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan to this Plan, for Officers who participate in
this Plan on or after January 1, 1998. 

Effective
January 1, 2004, the Plan was amended to provide benefit accruals for a select
group of management or highly compensated employees of a Participating Company
who participate in the AT T Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan.  The benefit provided to such employees by the Plan is generally
equal to the reduction in the benefit payable to or on behalf of such employee
under the AT T Management Pension Plan and the AT T Excess Benefit and
Compensation Plan, resulting from such employee s election to defer amounts
( Qualified Deferrals  herein) under the AT T Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan or the AT T Inc. Cash Deferral Plan.  Accruals
under this provision ceased December 31, 2007. 

Effective
after December 31, 2008, benefit accruals under this Plan are limited to
accruals under the cash balance formula with respect to short term incentive
awards, for employees who are Officers on December 31, 2008. These accruals will
continue for this group of Officers until the individuals  SERP Vesting Date, 
as defined herein, at which time the benefit will be frozen. Employees who
become Officers after December 31, 2008 are not entitled to benefits under this
Plan, except with respect to benefits earned under a prior formula that was
frozen effective December 31, 1997, or with respect to benefits based on
Qualified Deferrals, with respect to which benefit accruals ceased December 31,
2007. 

During
the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008, the Plan has been operated
in good faith compliance with the provisions of Code Section 409A, Internal
Revenue Notice 2005-1, and the final Treasury Regulations for Code Section 409A,
and any other generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue
Service Bulletin with an effective date prior to January 1, 2009.  On
or after January 1, 2009, this Plan shall be interpreted and construed
consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A and all applicable
guidance issued thereunder with respect to all accrued benefits under this Plan,
including, except as indicated below, those benefits that may be otherwise
treated as existing prior to the statutory effective date of Code Section 409A
( grandfathered benefits ) within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section
1.409A-6(a)(3).  The preceding sentence notwithstanding, it is the
intention of the Company that the grandfathering provisions of Code Section 409A
be applied under this Plan with respect to any Participant (and any surviving
Spouse, Beneficiary or Estate of such Participant) who terminated employment
prior to January 1, 2005, with respect to all benefits earned under the Plan
with respect to such Participant prior to termination of
employment.  If any individual who terminated employment prior to
January 1, 2005 is rehired after December 31, 2004 and earns additional benefits
following reemployment the terms of the Plan shall be applied separately with
respect to benefits earned prior to January 1, 2005 and with respect to benefits
earned following rehire. The Company reserves the right to amend any provision
of the Plan or any election submitted by a Participant, or take any other action
that the Company deems appropriate to ensure compliance with Code Section 409A,
including altering the time and form of any distribution so as to accomplish the
intended purpose of this Plan. 

Article
2.  

      Definitions 

Unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following terms have the meanings
described below when used in this Plan, and references to a particular Article,
Section, or Appendix shall mean the Article, Section, or Appendix so delineated
in this Plan. 

Section 2.01 Adjusted Career
Average Pay 

Adjusted
Career Average Pay,  as used in the Alternate Formula described in
Section 4.02(b), means (i) in the case of an Officer, the sum of  A  and  B  below, divided by
such Officer s Term of Employment, and (ii) in the case of an E-band Employee,
the amount described in  B  below divided by
such E-band Employee s Term of Employment;  for purposes of this
Section 2.01, the last day of a Participant s Term of Employment is the earliest
to occur of July 31, 1997, the date specified in the applicable provision of
Section 3.02(c) for purposes of determining a benefit under the Alternate
Formula, or the date of the Participant s termination of employment from a
Participating Company: 

A . 

the
      sum of (1) and (2), where (1) is the product of (a) the average of the
      Officer s annual Short Term Incentive Awards includable in the 1989 Base
      Period, and (b) the Officer s Term of Employment as of December 31, 1989,
      and (2) is his or her Short Term Incentive Awards and any Deferred Salary
      for the period from January 1, 1990 through the earliest to occur of (i)
      July 31, 1997, (ii) the date specified in the applicable provision of
      Section 3.02(c) for purposes of determining a benefit under the Alternate
      Formula, or (iii) the date of the Participant s termination of employment
      from a Participating Company. 

B . 

the
      sum of (1) and (2), where (1) is the product of (a) the Participant s
      average annual  Compensation  (as defined in the Pension Plan) for the
      1992 Base Period, and (b) the Participant s Term of Employment as of
      December 31, 1992, and (2) is the Participant s  Compensation  (as
      defined in the Pension Plan) for the period from January 1, 1993 through
      the earliest to occur of (i) July 31, 1997, (ii) the date specified in the
      applicable provision of Section 3.02(c) for purposes of determining a
      benefit under the Alternate Formula, or (iii) the date of the
      Participant s termination of employment from a Participating
      Company. 

Section 2.02   Administrator  

Administrator    means the person identified
as the Pension Plan Administrator under the Pension Plan, or such other person
or entity designated by the Company. 

Section 2.03 Affiliated
Corporation 

Affiliated
Corporation  means any corporation or other entity of which 50 percent or more
of the voting stock is owned directly or indirectly by AT T. 

Section 2.04 AT T, Company 

AT T  or
 Company  means AT T Corp., a New York Corporation, or its successors.
Effective on November 18, 2005, AT T Corp. was acquired by SBC
Communications Inc. (now known as AT T Inc.) pursuant to a plan and
agreement of merger dated January 30, 2005. 

Section 2.05 AT T Controlled
Group 

AT T
Controlled Group  means AT T and each other entity required to be aggregated
with AT T under Code Sections 414(b), (c), (m), or (o). With respect to
periods on or after November 18, 2005, the controlled group shall be determined
with respect to entities required to be aggregated recognizing the acquisition
of AT T Corp. by SBC Communications Inc. (now known as AT T
Inc.). 

Section 2.06 1989 Base
Period 

1989 Base
Period  means the period from January 1, 1987, through December 31, 1989,
inclusive.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately
preceding sentence, the  1989 Base Period  shall in no event include any period
on or after the date specified in the applicable provision of Section 3.02(c)
for purposes of determining a benefit under the Basic Formula or under the
Alternate Formula. 

Section 2.07 1992 Base
Period 

1992 Base
Period  means the period from January 1, 1990, through December 31, 1992,
inclusive.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately
preceding sentence, the  1992 Base Period  shall in no event include any period
on or after the date specified in the applicable provision of Section 3.02(c)
for purposes of determining a benefit under the Alternate Formula or under the
Alternate Minimum Formula. 

Section 2.08 1996 Base
Period 

1996 Base
Period  means the period from January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1996,
inclusive.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately
preceding sentence, the  1996 Base Period  shall in no event include any period
on or after the date specified in the applicable provision of Section 3.02(c)
for purposes of determining a benefit under the Special Update to the Basic
Formula or under the Special Update to the Alternate Formula. 

Section 2.09 Board 

Board  means
the Board of Directors of AT T. 

Section 2.10 Cash Balance
Account 

Cash Balance
Account  means a hypothetical bookkeeping account used solely in calculating the
amount under this Plan of a Cash Balance Participant s Benefit Based on the Cash
Balance Account, as described in Section 4.03.  The term  Cash Balance
Account  does not include amounts credited to the Qualified Deferrals Cash
Balance Account, as described in Section 4.11. 

Section 2.11 Cash Balance
Participant 

Cash Balance
Participant  means an employee who is on the active roll of a Participating
Company as an Officer on or after January 1, 1998. Notwithstanding the preceding
sentence, an individual who is promoted to an Officer position after December
31, 2008 shall not be eligible to earn benefits as a  Cash Balance
Participant.  

Section 2.12 CIC Eligible
Employee 

CIC
Eligible Employee  means a Deferral Participant who is considered a  CIC
Eligible Employee  under the terms of the Pension Plan. 

Section 2.13 Code 

Code 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. Any
reference to a particular section of the Code includes any applicable
regulations promulgated under that section. 

Section 2.14
Committee 

Committee 
means the Employees  Benefit Committee appointed by AT T to administer the
Pension Plan. 

Section 2.15 Concert
Employee 

Concert
Employee  means a former employee of a Participating Company who, pursuant to
pertinent agreement(s) concluded between AT T and British
Telecommunications, PLC ( BT ) became employed by a Concert entity after
December 15, 1999 and before April 1, 2002, under such circumstances that his or
her net credited service would be subject to an immediate bridge if the Concert
entity were a participating company under the Pension Plan,  who was
an Officer immediately prior to his or her employment by Concert, and who
returned to the employment of a Participating Company as an Officer immediately
following the termination of his or her employment by Concert on or before April
1, 2002.  For purposes of this definition,  Concert  means the joint
venture established pursuant to pertinent agreement(s) concluded between
AT T and BT. 

Section 2.16 Covered Compensation
Base 

Covered
Compensation Base  means an amount which is the average of the maximum wage
amounts on which an employee s liability for Social Security taxes was
determined for each year beginning with January 1, 1958 and ending with December
31, 1993. 

Section 2.17 Deferral
Participant 

Deferral
Participant  means an employee who defers compensation under the AT T
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, or for periods after 2006, the AT T
Inc. Cash Deferral Plan, to the extent that such deferred compensation is a
Qualified Deferral. 

Section 2.18 Deferred
Salary 

Deferred
Salary  means any salary amounts deferred under the AT T Senior Manager
Incentive Award Deferral Plan, for periods commencing on or after
January 1, 1994 and prior to January 1, 2005.  For periods
commencing on or after January 1, 2005,  Deferred Salary  is
zero.  Deferred Salary does not include amounts deferred pursuant to
Code Section 401(k) or amounts contributed pursuant to Code Section
125. 

Section 2.19 Deferred Vested
Benefit 

Deferred
Vested Benefit  means a benefit determined pursuant to Section 4.02E
(under  benefit formulas prior to January 1, 1998) and payable to a
Participant who is vested under the Pension Plan at the time of his or her
termination of employment, and who is not Service Pension Eligible as of the
date specified by the relevant provision of  this Plan. 

Section 2.20 Disability Benefit 

Disability
Benefit  means the benefit payable from the Plan to a Participant who, prior to
January 1, 1998, became eligible for a disability pension from the Pension Plan
while an Officer.  If the disability pension from the Pension Plan is
discontinued (other than by reason of attainment of normal retirement age, as
defined in the Pension Plan), the Disability Benefit hereunder shall also be
discontinued. 

Section 2.21 E-band
Employee 

E-band
Employee  means any employee of a Participating Company employed in a position
evaluated or classified by the Company as an  E-band  (formerly E-level, Fifth
level and SG-12 through SG-14) or equivalent position in a banded environment,
or Manager 5 or its equivalent in a non-banded environment, except that no
employee who is assigned to such a position on a temporary basis after being
notified in writing of the temporary status of such assignment shall be an
 E-band Employee  for any purpose under this Plan. 

Section 2.22 ERISA 

ERISA 
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time
to time. Any reference to a particular section of ERISA includes any applicable
regulations promulgated under that section. 

Section 2.23 50% Joint and
Survivor Annuity 

50%
Joint and Survivor Annuity  means an annuity form of payment under which
payments continue to the surviving Spouse of the Participant, effective as of
the first day of the month after the death of the Participant, and continuing
until the last day of the month in which the death of the Spouse occurs, in an
amount equal to fifty percent of the amount of the monthly benefit which was
being paid to the Participant.  If the Spouse predeceases the
Participant after the Pension Commencement Date (and the pension is other than a
Deferred Vested Pension described in Section 4.02(a)(iii)), the Participant s
pension shall be restored by the amount of the original reduction for this
election, starting with the pension payment for the month following the death of
the Spouse. For purposes of the 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity, the Spouse is
the Spouse to whom the Participant was married on his or her Pension
Commencement Date. This definition does not apply with respect to any benefit
payable pursuant to a SERP Election made by a SERP Participant. 

Section 2.24 100% Joint and
Survivor Annuity 

100%
Joint and Survivor Annuity  means an annuity form of payment under which
payments continue to the surviving Spouse of the Participant, effective as of
the first day of the month after the death of the Participant, and continuing
until the last day of the month in which the death of the Spouse occurs, in an
amount equal to amount of the monthly benefit which was being paid to the
Participant.  If the Spouse predeceases the Participant after the
Pension Commencement Date, the Participant s pension shall be restored by the
amount of the original reduction for this election, starting with the pension
payment for the month following the death of the Spouse. For purposes of the
100% Joint and Survivor Annuity, the Spouse is the Spouse to whom the
Participant was married on his or her Pension Commencement Date. This definition
does not apply with respect to any benefit payable pursuant to a SERP Election
made by a SERP Participant. 

Section 2.25 Leave of
Absence 

A  Leave of Absence  means where a
person is absent from employment with AT T on a leave of absence, military
leave, or sick leave, where the leave is given in order to prevent a break in
the continuity of term of employment, and permission for such leave is granted
(and not revoked) in conformity with the rules of the employer that employs the
individual, as adopted from time to time, and the employee is reasonably
expected to return to service. Except as set forth below, the leave shall not
exceed six (6) months for purposes of this Plan, and the employee shall
Terminate Employment upon termination of such leave if the employee does not
return to work prior to or upon expiration of such six (6) month period, unless
the individual retains a right to reemployment under law or by contract. A
twenty-nine (29) month limitation shall apply in lieu of such six (6) month
limitation if the leave is due to the employee being  disabled  (within the
meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(4). A Leave of Absence shall
not commence or shall be deemed to cease under the Plan where the employee has
incurred a Termination of Employment. 

Section 2.26 Normal Retirement Date 

Normal
Retirement Date  means the Participant s normal retirement date as that term is
defined in the Pension Plan. 

Section 2.27 Officer 

Officer 
means any employee of a Participating Company holding a position evaluated or
classified by the Company above the  E-band  level in a banded environment, or
classified at the Manager 6 level or above in a non-banded environment, except
that no employee who is assigned to such a position on a temporary basis after
being notified in writing of the temporary status of such assignment shall be an
 Officer  for any purpose under this Plan. 

Section 2.28
Participant 

Participant 
means an Officer or an E-band Employee who satisfies the requirements of Article
3 for eligibility to accrue benefits under the Plan.  An employee who
has become a Participant, but who is no longer eligible to accrue benefits under
the Plan, shall continue to be a Participant with respect to any nonforfeitable
benefits he or she has accrued under the Plan, until such accrued benefits have
been fully discharged through payment or through the purchase of an annuity
contract. 

Section2.29 Participating
Company 

Participating
Company  means AT T and any Affiliated Corporation which shall have
determined, with the concurrence of AT T, to participate in the
Plan.  In order to be a Participating Company under this Plan, a
company must also be a participating company under the AT T Management
Pension Plan. 

Section 2.30  Pension
Commencement Date  

Pension
Commencement Date  means the first day of the first month for which a payment
under this Plan is payable in the form of an annuity or any other form. With
respect to payments that commenced prior to January 1, 2009, the pension
commencement date under the Pension Plan was the same as the Pension
Commencement Date under this Plan. 

Section
2.31 Pension Plan 

Pension
Plan  means the AT T Management Pension Plan, as amended and restated from
time to time, and effective January 1, 2007, the AT T Pension Benefit Plan  
AT T Legacy Management Program. 

Section 2.32 Pension Plan
Benefit 

Pension
Plan Benefit  means (i) for purposes of determining the benefit under Section
4.02E(b) of the Plan, the  accrued benefit  under any of the pay base formulas
under the Pension Plan, other than the special update formula,  (ii)
for purposes of determining the benefit under Section 4.02E(e) of the Plan, the
 accrued benefit  under any of the pay base formulas under the Pension Plan,
including the special update formula, and (iii) for purposes of determining the
benefit under Section 4.02E(c) of the Plan, the  accrued benefit  under the
Pension Plan under any of the pay base formulas under the Pension Plan,
including the special update formula, each of (i), (ii)  and (iii)
herein determined without regard to the limitations on covered compensation
under Code Section 401(a)(17), or the limitations on benefit accruals and
payments under Code Section 415 and, unless otherwise indicated in the Plan,
before any reduction in such pension benefit for the cost of a survivor benefit
or for early commencement. Notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately
preceding sentence, in applying the pay base formulas under the Pension Plan to
a Participant described in Section 3.02(c), service and compensation after the
date specified in the applicable provisions of Section 3.02(c) for purposes of
determining the benefit under Section 4.02E(b) or Section 4.02E(e) of this Plan
shall be excluded. 

Plan 
means this AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan, as set forth herein and as
amended from time to time. 

Position
Rate  means an amount established periodically by the Company for each Officer s
position, upon which base salaries are administered. 

A
 Qualified Deferral  means any salary or bonus amounts deferred under the
AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, for periods commencing on or
after January 1, 2005, or the AT T Inc. Cash Deferral Plan for
periods after December 31, 2006, to the extent such salary or bonus would have
been included as  Eligible Pay  (determined before application of any
limitations under Code Section 401(a)(17)) under the Pension Plan if not
deferred. Notwithstanding the preceding, the term  Qualified Deferral  does not
include amounts deferred pursuant to Code Section 401(k) or amounts contributed
pursuant to Code Section 125.  An amount is treated as deferred for
the period in which such amount would have been paid, if not deferred.
Notwithstanding the preceding, a Qualified Deferral does not include amounts
deferred with respect to any paycheck dated after December 31,
2007. 

Section
      2.36   

Qualified
      Deferrals Cash Balance Account 

Qualified
Deferrals Cash Balance Account  means a hypothetical bookkeeping account used
solely in calculating the amount under this Plan of a Deferral Participant s
Benefit Based on the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account, as described in
Section 4.11E.  The term  Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account 
does not include amounts credited to the Cash Balance Account described in
Section 4.03E. 

SERP 
means the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan of AT T Inc., as
amended from time to time. 

Section
2.38    SERP
Effective Date  

SERP
Effective Date  means SERP Effective Date as defined in the SERP. 

SERP
Election  means the election made before December 31, 2008 and in effect on
December 31, 2008 with respect to distributions under the 2005 Supplemental
Employee Retirement Plan of AT T Inc. The SERP Election shall also apply to
benefits payable under this Plan to a Participant who became a SERP Participant
prior to January 1, 2009. 

SERP
Participant  means an individual who has been designated as eligible to
participate in the SERP.  For purposes of this Plan, such individual
is considered a SERP Participant whether or not he or she has satisfied the
vesting requirements of the SERP. 

SERP
Vesting Date  means the date a SERP Participant becomes vested in his or her
benefit under the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan of AT T Inc.,
or January 1, 2011 if later. 

Service
Benefit  means the benefit determined pursuant to Section 4.02E(a) through (e),
as applicable, and payable under the Plan to a Participant who is Service
Pension Eligible at the date specified by the relevant provision of this Plan as
if the Participant terminated employment as of such date. 

Section
      2.43   

Service
      Pension Eligible 

Service
Pension Eligible  means (i) with respect to a termination of employment prior to
January 1, 1997, the Participant is eligible for a service pension under the
Pension Plan; and (ii) with respect to a termination of employment on or after
January 1, 1997, the Participant meets the following requirements: 

(i) 

the
      Participant s term of employment has been at least thirty years,
      regardless of his or her age, or 

(ii) 

the
      Participant s term of employment has been at least twenty-five years and
      he or she has reached the age of fifty years,
or 

(iii) 

the
      Participant s term of employment has been at least twenty years and he or
      she has reached the age of fifty-five years,
or 

(iv)   

the
      Participant s term of employment has been at least ten years and he or she
      has reached the age of sixty-five
years. 

For
purposes of subparagraphs (i) through (iv) above, a Participant s  term of
employment  is determined under the provisions of the Pension Plan, as that plan
was in effect on January 1, 1997, and is measured as of the date specified by
the relevant provision of this Plan as if the Participant terminated employment
of such date, or if no date is specified, as of the date of such Participant s
termination of employment.  In determining the Participant s  term of
employment  under the Pension Plan, and in determining a Participant s status as
eligible for a service pension under the Pension Plan, the effect of the
Management Pension Enhancement under the Pension Plan for employees with five or
more years of term of employment (under the Pension Plan) as of December 30,
1989, shall be disregarded. 

Section
      2.44   

Short
      Term Incentive Award 

Short
Term Incentive Award  means the actual amount awarded annually (including any
such amounts deferred pursuant to the AT T Senior Management Incentive Award
Deferral Plan or the AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan) to an
Officer pursuant to the AT T Short Term Incentive Plan, or any predecessor
short term incentive plan. A Short Term Incentive Award shall, for purposes of
Sections 4.02E(a) and 4.02E(d) of this Plan, be considered to be awarded on the
last day of the performance period with respect to which it is earned. For
purposes of the annual award credit under the Cash Balance Account, the Short
Term Incentive Awards shall be taken into account in the year paid (or in which
it would have been paid, if not deferred) and only if such amount is paid (or
would have been paid, if not deferred) on or before the end of the month in
which the Officer terminates employment. Notwithstanding the preceding, after
calendar year 2007, a short term incentive award shall be taken into account if
it is paid in the month following termination of employment as part of the
regular payroll schedule applied for payment of amounts earned during the final
pay period of the month in which employment terminated. 

Effective
December 15, 1999, any short term award received from Concert by a Concert
Employee while employed in  Concert service  (as defined in the Pension Plan)
shall be treated as a Short Term Incentive Award provided that, had the award
been received from a Pension Plan participating company, it would have been
considered a Short Term Incentive Award. 

Section
      2.45   

Special
      Update Adjusted Career Average Pay 

Special
Update Adjusted Career Average Pay,  as used in the Special Update to the
Alternate Formula described in Section 4.02E(e), means (i) in the case of an
Officer the sum of (a) the average annual Short Term Incentive Awards and the
average annual Deferred Salary under the AT T Senior Management Incentive
Award Deferral Plan for the 1996 Base Period and (b) the average annual
 Compensation  (as defined in the Pension Plan) for the 1996 Base Period, and
(ii) in the case of an E-band Employee, the average annual  Compensation  (as
defined in the Pension Plan) for the 1996 Base Period. 

Any
Participant who is a Key Employee (as defined in Code Section 416(i) without
regard to paragraph (5) thereof), as determined by AT T in accordance with
its uniform  policy with respect to all
arrangements subject to Code Section 409A, based upon the 12-month period ending
on each December 31st (such 12-month period is referred to below as the
identification period). All Participants who are determined to be Key Employees
under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) during the
identification period shall be treated as Key Employees for purposes of the Plan
during the 12-month period that begins on the first day of the 4th month
following the close of such identification period.  

Section
      2.47   

Successor
      Plan Sponsor 

Successor
Plan Sponsor  means Lucent Technologies Inc. and any other corporation or entity
that enters into an agreement or agreements providing for the assumption of
liabilities arising under this Plan, including the Management Interchange
Agreement dated as of April 8, 1996, and the Employee Benefits Agreement dated
February 1, 1996, and amended and restated as of March 29, 1996, between
AT T and Lucent Technologies Inc. 

Spouse 
means a person of the opposite sex who is the lawful spouse of a married
Participant, under the laws of the state of the Participant s domicile, and at
the relevant time period stated under the applicable Plan
provisions.   Notwithstanding the preceding, if an alternate
payee (as that term is defined in Section 414(p) of the Code) is deemed the
surviving spouse for purposes of all or a portion of the Participant s benefit
under the Pension Plan, such alternate payee shall not be deemed to be the
 spouse  for any purpose under this Plan. 

Term
of Employment  means  term of employment  as determined under the provisions of
the Pension Plan, as that plan was in effect on January 1, 1997, but excluding
any service subsequent to the date indicated, if any, by a provision of this
Plan for purposes of applying such Plan provision. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, except for purposes of determining a CIC Credit pursuant to Section
4.11E(c), a Participant s Term of Employment shall end no later than the date
the Participant is reclassified or reassigned (or such later date as otherwise
specified in Section 3.02(c) for the purpose indicated therein). 

Section
      2.50   

Termination
      of Employment 

The
ceasing of the Participant s employment from the AT T controlled group of
companies for any reason whatsoever, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.
Effective January 1, 2009, references herein to Termination of Employment,
Terminate Employment, or a similar reference, shall mean the event where the
employee has a separation from service, as defined under Code Section 409A, with
all members of the AT T controlled group. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
employment relationship of a Participant with the AT T controlled group is
considered to remain intact while the individual is on a Leave of
Absence. 

Total
Compensation  as used in the Alternate Minimum Formula described in Section
4.02(c) means, with respect to any period, the sum of (i)  Compensation  as
defined in  the Pension Plan, (ii) Deferred Salary under the AT T
Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan, and (iii) Short Term Incentive
Awards, applicable to such period. 

Transition
Employee  means a former Participant, as to whom the responsibility and
liability for the payment of benefits accrued or payable under this Plan has
been assumed by a Successor Plan Sponsor. 

Years of
Service  with respect to a Participant means the years of service as defined in
Article 2 of the Pension Plan as that plan was in effect on December 31,
1993.   Years of Service  is used herein solely for the purpose of
determining a Participant s eligibility for the Alternate Minimum
Formula. 

Article
3. 

      Participation
and Eligibility for Plan Benefits 

Section
      3.01   

Eligibility
      to Accrue Plan Benefits 

Effective
for periods prior to January 1, 1997, eligibility to accrue benefits under this
Plan shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Plan as in
effect from time to time prior to January 1, 1997. 

Effective
January 1, 1997 through July 31, 1997, all Officers and E-band Employees shall
be eligible to accrue benefits under this Plan. 

During
the period beginning August 1, 1997 and ending December 31, 1997, no employee
will accrue additional retirement benefits under this Plan. 

Effective
January 1, 1998, an employee who was an Officer prior to January 1, 1998 shall
be eligible to accrue benefits under the Cash Balance Formula of this Plan,
during the period on or after January 1, 1998 that he or she continues to be an
Officer of a Participating Company.   Any other employee who
becomes an Officer prior to January 1, 2009 shall become eligible to accrue
benefits under the Cash Balance Formula on the date he or she becomes an
Officer. Notwithstanding the preceding, such Officer shall not accrue additional
benefits hereunder after the SERP Vesting Date. An individual who is not an
Officer on December 31, 2008 shall not be eligible to accrue benefits under the
Plan after December 31, 2008. 

Effective
January 1, 2004, an employee who defers compensation under the AT T
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, or the AT T Inc. Cash Deferral Plan
for periods after December 31, 2006, shall be eligible to accrue benefits under
this Plan with respect to amounts deferred under such plan, to the extent such
amounts deferred are Qualified Deferrals.  Notwithstanding the
preceding, a Qualified Deferral does not include amounts deferred with respect
to any paycheck dated after December 31, 2007. 

No
individual shall become a Participant in this Plan after December 31,
2008. 

Section
      3.02   

Eligibility
      to Receive Plan Benefits 

(a)     Participants
Who Are Officers 

Participants Who Are
Officers Before January 1, 2009  

Subject
to the provisions of Section 3.01, Section 3.02(c) regarding reassignments and
reclassifications, and Section 3.02(d) regarding Qualified Deferrals and Section
3.02(a)(v) regarding Participants who become an Officer after December 31, 2008,
a Participant who is an Officer prior to January 1, 2009 shall be eligible for
the following pension benefits from the Plan, in an amount determined in
accordance with the provisions of Article 4 and Appendix E.  If a
Participant is eligible for a benefit determined pursuant to more than one
subparagraph of this Section 3.02(a), the benefit payable from the Plan shall be
determined under the provision which applies to him or her and which produces
the greatest benefit, taking into account the Pension Commencement Date and the
form of payment. Notwithstanding the preceding, the benefit with respect to a
Participant who is an Officer prior to January 1, 2009 shall be calculated as of
the earlier of the Participant s termination of employment or SERP Vesting Date
as the immediate single life annuity that would be payable under the Plan
commencing on such date, and once determined, the amount of the single life
annuity payable under this Plan shall not change. 

(i)   

If
      the Participant is a Cash Balance Participant, a Benefit Based on the Cash
      Balance Account, as described in Section 4.03E(f), provided that the
      Participant is vested under the Pension Plan at the time of his or her
      termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
    Group; 

(ii)   

If
      the Participant is Service Pension Eligible at the time of his or her
      termination of employment with a Participating Company, a Service Benefit
      determined in accordance with the applicable provision
      of  Section 4.01E and Section 4.02E (with regard to benefits
      frozen prior to January 1, 1998); 

(iii)   

If
      the Participant is not Service Pension Eligible at the time specified in
      the relevant Plan provision, a Deferred Vested Benefit determined in
      accordance with Section 4.02E(a) or Section 4.02E(d) (with regard to
      benefits frozen prior to January 1, 1998), as applicable, provided that
      the Participant is vested under the Pension Plan at the time of his or her
      termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
    Group; 

(iv)   

If
      the Participant became eligible for a disability pension from the Pension
      Plan while an Officer, a Disability Benefit, determined in accordance with
      Section 4.02E(a) or Section 4.02E(d) (with regard to benefits frozen prior
      to January 1, 1998), as applicable. Such Disability Benefit shall be paid
      in lieu of any other benefit under the Plan, so long as the Participant is
      prevented by such disability from resuming active service with a
      Participating Company. If the Participant s disability continues to his or
      her Normal Retirement Date, the Disability Benefit shall be converted to a
      Service Benefit commencing on the first day of the month following such
      Normal Retirement Date; 

Participants
Who Become Officers After December 31, 2008  

(v)   

If
      an individual first becomes an Officer after December 31, 2008, the only
      benefits payable under the Plan with respect to such individual will be
      benefits attributable to Qualified Deferrals, if any, and benefits that
      were accrued under the Plan prior to January 1, 1998, if any. Benefits
      earned prior to January 1, 1998 will be paid pursuant to the provisions of
      Section 3.02(b) applicable to Participants who are E-band Employees, and
      benefits attributable to Qualified Deferrals pursuant to Section 3.02(d).
      The benefit with respect to such Participant shall be calculated as of the
      SERP Effective Date as the immediate single life annuity that would be
      payable under the Plan commencing on such date, and once determined, the
      amount of the single life annuity payable under this Plan shall not
      change. 

(b)     Participants
Who Are E-band Employees (and Certain Officer Promotions) 

Subject
to the provisions of Section 3.01, Section 3.02(c) regarding reassignments and
reclassifications, and Section 3.02(d) regarding Qualified Deferrals, a
Participant who is an E-band Employee, and a Participant who becomes an Officer
after December 31, 2008, shall be eligible for the following pension benefits
from the Plan, in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of
Article 4 and, as applicable Appendix E: 

(i)   

If
      the Participant is Service Pension Eligible at the time of his or her
      termination of employment from a Participating Company, a Service Benefit
      determined in accordance with the applicable provision of Section 4.01E
      and Section 4.02E (with respect to benefits frozen prior to January 1,
      1998) ; 

(ii)   

If
      the Participant is not Service Pension Eligible at the time of his or her
      termination of employment with a Participating Company, a Deferred Vested
      Benefit determined in accordance with Section 4.02E(a) or Section 4.02E(d)
      (with respect to benefits frozen prior to January 1, 1998), as applicable,
      provided that the Participant is vested under the Pension Plan at the time
      of his or her termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
      Group. 

In
applying the provisions of this Section 3.02(b) to a Participant who is promoted
to Officer after December 31, 2008, the determinations in (i) and (ii) of
whether the Participant is Service Pension Eligible shall be made as of such
Participant s SERP Effective Date. The benefit with respect to such a
Participant shall be determined as described in Section 3.02(a)(v). 

(c)     Reassignments 

(i) 

An
      Officer who, on or after January 1, 1986 and before January 1, 1998,
      was reassigned to a position evaluated below the E-band level for reasons
      other than unsatisfactory performance, and who has satisfied the vesting
      requirements of the Pension Plan as of the reassignment date shall be
      eligible for benefits as follows: 

(A) such
a former Officer who was Service Pension Eligible as of the reassignment date,
shall be eligible for a Service Benefit under Section 3.02(a)(ii) as of his or
her termination of employment.  The benefit of any reassigned Officer
described in this Section 3.02(c)(i)(A) shall equal the greater of (1) or (2),
as follows: 

(1)   

an
      amount computed in accordance with Section 4.02(a), the Basic Formula, or
      Section 4.02(d), the Special Update to the Basic Formula, as applicable,
      as in effect on the reassignment date.  For purposes of
      determining a benefit under the Basic Formula, the Participant s Term of
      Employment shall exclude any period following the earliest to occur of the
      last day of the year in which he or she was reassigned, July 31, 1997, or
      termination of employment; and 

(2)   

an
      amount computed in accordance with Section 4.02(b) (the Alternate
      Formula), or Section 4.02(e) (the Special Update to the Alternate
      Formula), as applicable, as in effect on the reassignment date. For
      purposes of determining a benefit under the Alternate Formula, the
      Participant s Term of Employment shall exclude any period following the
      last day of 1988 or if later, the earliest to occur of the last day of the
      year in which he or she was reassigned, July 31, 1997, or termination of
      employment. 

(B) such
a former Officer who was not Service Pension Eligible, but who was eligible for
a deferred vested pension pursuant to the Pension Plan as of the reassignment
date, shall be eligible for a Deferred Vested Benefit under Section 3.02(a)(iii)
as of his or her termination of employment.  For purposes of
determining benefits pursuant to this Section 3.02(c)(i) (B) the Participant s
Term of Employment shall exclude any period following the earliest to occur of
the last day of the year in which such reassignment occurs, July 31, 1997, or
termination of employment, and. 

(ii) 

An
      Officer who, on or after January 1, 1986 and before January 1, 1998,
      was reassigned to a position evaluated below the E-band level, and who was
      not Service Pension Eligible or eligible for a deferred vested pension
      pursuant to the Pension Plan as of the reassignment date, will not be
      eligible for benefits under this
Plan. 

(iii) 

An
      Officer who, on or after January 1, 1986 and before January 1, 1998,
      was reassigned to a position evaluated at the E-band level for reasons
      other than unsatisfactory performance, shall be eligible for benefits as
      follows: 

(A)
such a former Officer who was Service Pension Eligible as of the reassignment
date, shall be eligible for a Service Benefit under Section 3.02(a)(ii) upon his
or her termination of employment. The benefit of any reassigned Officer
described in this Section 3.02(c)(iii)(A) shall equal the greater of (1) and (2)
as follows: 

(1)   

an
      amount computed in accordance with Section 4.02(a), the Basic Formula, or
      Section 4.02(d), the Special Update to the Basic Formula, as applicable,
      as in effect on the reassignment date. For purposes of determining a
      benefit under the Basic Formula, the Participant s Term of Employment
      shall exclude any period following the earliest to occur of the last day
      of the year in which his or her job was reclassified, July 31, 1997, or
      termination of employment;  for purposes of determining a
      benefit under the Special Update to the Basic Formula, the Participant s
      Term of Employment shall exclude any period following the earliest to
      occur of the last day of the year in which his or her job was
      reclassified, December 31, 1996, or termination of employment;
      and 

(2)   

an
      amount computed in accordance with Section 4.02(b) (the Alternate
      Formula), or Section 4.02(e) (the Special Update to the Alternate
      Formula), as applicable, as in effect on the reassignment
      date.  For purposes of determining a benefit under the Alternate
      Formula, the Participant s Term of Employment shall exclude any period
      following the last day of 1988 or if later, the earliest to occur of the
      last day of the year in which his or her job was reclassified, July 31,
      1997, or termination of employment; for purposes of determining a benefit
      under the Special Update to the Alternate Formula, the Participant s Term
      of Employment shall exclude any period following the earliest to occur of
      the last day of the year in which his or her job was reclassified,
      December 31, 1996, or termination of
employment. 

(B)
such a former Officer who was not Service Pension Eligible but was eligible for
a deferred vested pension pursuant to the Pension Plan, as of the reassignment
date, shall be eligible for a Deferred Vested Benefit under Section 3.02(a)(iii)
upon his or her termination of employment.  The benefit of any
reassigned Officer described in this Section 3.02(c)(iii)(B) shall be computed
under Section 4.02(a) (the Basic Formula), or Section 4.02(d) (the Special
Update to the Basic Formula), as applicable, in effect as of the date of such
reassignment.  For purposes of determining a benefit under the Basic
Formula, the Participant s Term of Employment shall exclude any period following
the earliest to occur of the last day of the year in which his or her job was
reclassified, July 31, 1997, or termination of employment; for purposes of
determining a benefit under the Special Update to the Basic Formula, the
Participant s Term of Employment shall exclude any period following the earliest
to occur of the last day of the year in which his or her job was reclassified,
December 31, 1996, or termination of employment. 

(iv) 

A
      Participant, other than an Officer, whose job was classified or
      reclassified during or after 1986 and prior to January 1, 1998 to a level
      below E-band, will be eligible for the Service Benefit computed in
      accordance with Section 4.02(b) (the Alternate Formula), or Section
      4.02(e) (the Special Update to the Alternate Formula), as applicable, as
      in effect on the reclassification date, provided he or she is Service
      Pension Eligible as of the date of such classification or
      reclassification, and further provided he or she is not demoted subsequent
      to such day because of unsatisfactory job performance prior to termination
      of employment.  For purposes of determining a benefit under the
      Alternate Formula, the Participant s Term of Employment shall exclude any
      period following the last day of 1988 or if later, the earliest to occur
      of the last day of the year in which his or her job was reclassified, July
      31, 1997, or termination of employment;  For purposes of
      determining a benefit under the Special Update to the Alternate Formula,
      the Participant s Term of Employment shall exclude any period following
      the earliest to occur of the last day of the year in which his or her job
      was reclassified, December 31, 1996, or termination of
      employment. 

(v)   

The
      benefit with respect to a Participant who is an Officer on or after
      January 1, 1998 who is reassigned on or after January 1, 1998 and before
      January 1, 2009, shall be determined pursuant to Section 4.03(f);
      provided, however, that the benefit of such former Officer shall be
      determined in accordance with subparagraphs (i) through (iii) of this
      Section 3.02(c) assuming a reassignment date of December 31, 1997, if such
      determination produces a higher benefit, as of the Participant s Pension
      Commencement Date. 

(d)     Benefits
Based on Qualified Deferrals 

A
Participant who is a Deferral Participant shall be eligible for a Benefit Based
on the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account, as described in Section
4.11E.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the
contrary, the Benefit Based on the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account
shall be payable in addition to any other benefits payable under the
Plan. 
 
      Article
4. 

      Pension
Benefits After 2008 

Section
      4.01   

Applicable
      Benefit Formulas. 

The
provisions of this Article 4 apply with respect to benefits payable to or with
respect to a Participant who terminates employment on or after December 1,
2008.  This article also describes the distribution provisions with
respect to Participants who terminated employment after December 31, 2004 with
respect to whom benefit payments had not commenced on or before December 1,
2008. The determination of pension benefits in all other cases is made as
described in Appendix E. Appendix E generally includes the provisions of Article
4 as in effect prior to December 31, 2008.  References in the Plan to
a provision in Article 4 should in general be interpreted as reference to the
corresponding provision in Appendix E when applied to or with respect to a
termination of employment prior to December 1, 2008. 

(a)     Participants
Terminated Before January 1, 1997 

The
Service Benefit, Deferred Vested Benefit, or Disability Benefit payable to a
Participant who terminated employment from a Participating Company prior to
January 1, 1997 is determined in accordance with the terms of the Plan as in
effect from time to time prior to January 1, 1997. 

(b)     Active
Participants on  January 1, 1997 

(i)  

Participants Whose Eligibility
      to Accrue Benefits Ends Prior to August 1,
  1997 . 

(A) 

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.01(b)(i)(D), the annual benefit of a
      Participant, who is an Officer or an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997,
      who is an Officer at the time he or she leaves the service of a
      Participating Company prior to August 1, 1997, and who is Service Pension
      Eligible as of the last day of his or her Term of Employment, will be the
      greater of the annual benefit amount determined under the Basic Formula
      described in Section 4.02E(a), the annual benefit amount determined under
      the Alternate Formula described in Section 4.02E(b), or, in the case of an
      Officer who had at least five Years of Service as an Officer as of
      December 31, 1993, the annual benefit amount determined under the
      Alternate Minimum Formula described in Section
  4.02E(c). 

(B) 

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.01(b)(i)(D), the annual benefit of a
      Participant, who is an Officer or an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997,
      who is an Officer at the time he leaves the service of a Participating
      Company prior to August 1, 1997, but who is not Service Pension Eligible
      as of the last day of his or her Term of Employment, will be a Deferred
      Vested Benefit determined under the Basic Formula described in Section
      4.02E(a), provided he or she is vested under the Pension Plan at the time
      of termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
      Group.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately
      preceding sentence, if such Participant was an Officer who had at least
      five Years of Service as an Officer as of December 31, 1993, the annual
      benefit shall not be less than the annual benefit determined under the
      Alternate Minimum Formula described in Section
  4.02E(c). 

(C) 

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.01(b)(i)(D), the annual benefit of a
      Participant, who is an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997, who terminates
      employment as an E-band Employee prior to August 1, 1997 and who is
      Service Pension Eligible as of the last day of his or her Term of
      Employment, will be the annual benefit amount determined under the
      Alternate Formula described in Section
4.02E(b). 

(D) 

Effective
      August 1, 1997, the annual benefit of a Participant described in this
      Section 4.01(b)(i) shall increase (but shall not be decreased) to the
      amount determined pursuant to the following subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(A), if
      the Participant is described in subsection 4.01(b)(i)(A), or to the amount
      determined pursuant to subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(B) if the Participant is
      described in subsection 4.01(b)(i)(B), or to the amount determined
      pursuant to the following subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(D), if the Participant is
      described in subsection 4.01(b)(i)(C).  For purposes of applying
      the provisions of Section 4.01(b)(ii) to increase a benefit which
      commenced prior to August 1, 1997 pursuant to this subsection
      4.01(b)(i)(D), any age-based reduction shall be based on such
      Participant s age on his or her original Pension Commencement
      Date. 

(ii)  

Participants  Whose
      Eligibility to Accrue Benefits Ends after July 31,
      1997 . 

(A) 

Subject
      to the provisions of subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(C) for Officers after December
      31, 1997, the annual benefit of a Participant who is an Officer or an
      E-band Employee on January 1, 1997, who is an Officer at the time he or
      she leaves the service of a Participating Company after July 31, 1997, and
      who is Service Pension Eligible as of his or her termination of employment
      from a Participating Company, will be the greater of the annual benefit
      amount determined under the Special Update to the Basic Formula described
      in Section 4.02E(d) and the annual benefit amount determined under the
      Special Update to the Alternate Formula described in Section 4.02E(e).
      Notwithstanding the preceding, in no event shall be the benefit with
      respect to a Participant described in this subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(A) be
      less than the amounts determined pursuant to Section
      4.01(b)(i)(A). 

(B) 

Subject
      to the provisions of subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(C), the annual benefit of a
      Participant who is an Officer or an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997,
      who is an Officer at the time he leaves the service of a Participating
      Company after July 31, 1997  but  who is not Service
      Pension Eligible as of the last day of his or her termination of
      employment will be a Deferred Vested Benefit equal to the greater of the
      annual benefit amount determined under the Special Update to the Basic
      Formula described in Section 4.02E(d) or the amounts determined pursuant
      to Section 4.01(b)(i)(B), provided he or she is vested under the Pension
      Plan at the time of termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
      Group. 

(C) 

The
      annual benefit of a Participant on January 1, 1997 who is also an Officer
      on or after January 1, 1998 shall not be less than the amount determined
      pursuant to subsection 4.01(d). 

(D) 

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.01(d)(ii) regarding an E-band Employee who
      becomes an Officer on or after January 1, 1998, the benefit of a
      Participant who is an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997, who terminates
      employment as an E-band Employee after July 31, 1997, and who is Service
      Pension Eligible as of his or her termination of employment from a
      Participating Company, will be the annual benefit amount determined under
      the Special Update to the Alternate Formula described in Section 4.02E(e),
      but shall in no event be less than the amount determined pursuant to
      Section 4.01(b)(i)(C). 

(c)     New
Participants after January 1, 1997 and before January 1, 1998 

(ii) 

An
      individual who first becomes an Officer on or after August 1, 1997, who
      was not previously an E-band Employee, and who leaves the service of a
      Participating Company prior to January 1, 1998 shall not be eligible for
      benefits under the Plan. 

(iii) 

An
      individual, who first becomes a Participant after January 1, 1997 and
      before January 1, 1998, who is not an Officer at any time on or after
      January 1, 1998, and who terminates employment with a Participating
      Company on or after January 1, 1998 shall be eligible for a Service
      Benefit if the Participant is Service Pension Eligible at the time of his
      or her termination of employment from a Participating Company. Such
      benefit shall be determined only under the Alternate Formula described in
      Section 4.02E(b). No benefit shall be payable from the Plan if such
      Participant is not Service Pension Eligible at the time of his or her
      termination of employment from a Participating
  Company. 

(d)     Participants
who are Officers on or after January 1, 1998 (Cash Balance
Participants) 

Participants Who Are
Officers Before January 1, 2009  

(i) 

An
      individual who is an Officer on or after January 1, 1998, who first became
      an Officer on or after August 1, 1997 and who was not previously an E-band
      Employee shall be eligible for a benefit determined under Section 4.03 if
      such Officer is vested in his or her benefit under the Pension Plan upon
      his or her termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
      Group. 

(ii) 

An
      individual who is an Officer on or after January 1, 1998, who was an
      Officer or an E-band Employee prior to August 1, 1997, and whose Pension
      Commencement Date is after July 1, 1998, shall be eligible for a benefit
      from the Plan if such Officer is vested in his or her benefit under the
      Pension Plan upon termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
      Group. The benefit shall be the greater of (A) the benefit determined
      pursuant to Section 4.03, or (B) the sum of (I) the Mid-Career Pension
      Benefit determined pursuant to Section 4.07 and (II) the benefit accrued
      under the Plan prior to January 1, 1998 and payable pursuant to the terms
      of Section 4.01E(b)(ii)(A) or Section 4.01E(b)(ii)(B), as
      applicable.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, the
      determination of the greater of (A) and (B) shall be made taking into
      account the Pension Commencement Date and the form of payment determined
      in accordance with Section 4.09E. 

Participants
Who Become Officers After December 31, 2008  

(iii) 

Notwithstanding
      the preceding Sections 4.01(d)(i) and 4.01(d)(ii), benefits, if any, with
      respect to an individual who first becomes on Officer after December 31,
      2008 shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of the Plan related to
      a Qualified Deferral Participant and to a Participant who is an E-band
      Employee, as applicable with respect to such individual. Such a
      Participant shall not be eligible for benefits determined under the Cash
      Balance Formula. 

(e)       Surviving
Spouse of an E-band Employee or Officer 

An
Automatic Survivor Annuity will be paid to the Spouse to whom an E-band Employee
or Officer is married at the time of his or her death while an active employee,
provided such Participant is vested as of his or her date of death, and
satisfies the provisions of Section 4.04 at the date of death.  The
benefit payable to such Spouse shall be equal to the present value of the
benefit determined in accordance with Section 4.04.  The provisions of
this Section 4.01(e) do not apply to a benefit determined under the cash balance
formula of Section 4.11, or to a benefit based on a Mid-Career Pension Benefit
of Section 4.07E. The benefit to a Surviving Spouse shall not be payable under
both this Section 4.01(e) and Section 4.01(f). 

(f)     Surviving
Spouse (or Estate) of a Cash Balance Participant 

A
benefit, determined pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.10, shall be payable
to the surviving Spouse (or estate, in the case of a Participant who is not
married at the time of death) of a Cash Balance Participant who is vested in his
or her benefit under the Pension Plan as of his or her date of death and who
dies prior to commencing distribution of his or her benefit under the
Plan.  The benefit to a Surviving Spouse shall not be payable under
both this Section 4.01(f) and Section 4.01(e). 

(g)     Deferral
Participant 

An
individual who is a Deferral Participant shall be eligible for a benefit
determined pursuant to Section 4.11, provided that such Participant is vested in
his or her benefit under the Pension Plan upon his or her termination of
employment from the AT T Controlled Group.  Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan to the contrary, such benefit shall be payable in
addition to any other benefits otherwise payable under the Plan. 

(h)     Surviving
Spouse (or Estate) of a Deferral Participant 

A
benefit, determined pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.10, shall be payable
to the surviving Spouse (or estate, in the case of a Participant who is not
married at the time of death) of a Deferral Participant who is vested in his or
her benefit under the Pension Plan as of his or her date of death and who dies
prior to commencing distribution of his or her benefit under the
Plan. 

Section
      4.02   

Benefit
      Formulas (other than Cash Balance) 

To the extent that a benefit payable to
a Participant who terminates employment on or after December 1, 2008 is based on
a formula other than the Cash Balance Account of Section 4.03 or the Qualified
Deferral Cash Balance Account of Section 4.11, the amount of such benefit shall
be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02E of Appendix
E. 

Effective January 1, 1998, a cash
balance formula was added to the Plan, applicable only to Participants who were
Officers on or after such date.  Section 4.03E describes the manner in
which cash balance accounts were established, and the annual accruals under such
formula. 

The Cash Balance Account of a
Participant who is an Officer prior to January 1, 2009 shall continue to be
credited with Annual Award Credits and Interest Credits until the earlier of
such Participant s termination of employment or SERP Vesting Date, at which time
no further amounts shall be credited to the Cash Balance Account.  In
the latter case, the provisions of Section 4.03E(c) and Section 4.03E(d) shall
be applied as if the SERP Vesting Date is the Participant s termination date and
commencement date, as applicable.   The amount of the single life
annuity that would be payable from the Cash Balance Account commencing as of
such date shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section
4.03E(f). Any reference to the Benefit Based on the Cash Balance Account for a
period after the SERP Vesting Date shall be the amount so determined as of such
date. 

The Cash Balance Account with respect
to a Participant who is not an Officer prior to January 1, 2009 shall be
zero. 

Section
      4.04   

Automatic Survivor
    Annuities  

The
Automatic Survivor Annuity described in this Section 4.04 does not apply to a
benefit determined under the cash balance formula of Section 4.03 or 4.11, or to
a benefit based on the Mid-Career Pension Benefit of Section 4.07. The Automatic
Survivor Annuity is payable upon the death of a Participant who dies while
actively employed after December 31, 2008, if such Participant s benefit under
the Plan is determined under a formula described in Section 4.02E. 

The
surviving Spouse of such a Participant shall be entitled to a pre-retirement
Automatic Survivor Annuity determined pursuant to this Section 4.04 effective
commencing as of the first day of the month following the death of a Participant
who dies while an employee if such Participant  has a Term of
Employment of at least fifteen years at the time of death, or,  if
such Participant meets the age and Term of Employment requirements for a Service
Benefit (or is Service Pension Eligible) at the time of his or her death. The
pre-retirement Automatic Survivor Annuity shall be payable monthly in an amount
equal to forty six percent of the monthly benefit that would have been payable
to the Participant pursuant to Section 4.02E had such Participant terminated
employment with a Service Benefit, regardless of his or her actual eligibility
therefore, on the date of his or her death.  For purposes of
determining the Automatic Survivor Annuity provided in this Section 4.04(a), the
early retirement discounts in Sections 4.02E(a), 4.02E(b), 4.02E(d) or 4.02E(e)
shall not apply.  With respect to a Participant whose benefit is
determined pursuant to Section 4.01(d)(ii)(B), the Automatic Survivor Annuity
shall not include the portion, if any, of the Participant s benefit attributable
to the Participant s transferred Mid-Career Pension Benefit described in Section
4.07. With respect to a Participant who terminates employment on or after
December 1, 2008, distribution of a benefit determined pursuant to this Section
4.04 shall be made in a lump sum payment upon the death of the
Participant.  The amount of the lump sum payment shall be determined
by multiplying the monthly benefit determined above by the immediate single life
annuity factor based on the age of the surviving Spouse as of the commencement
date, and the Code Section 417(e) actuarial assumptions in effect under the
Pension Plan as of such date. 

The
provisions of Section 4.05E do not apply to a benefit that commences after
December 1, 2008, except in the case of a survivor benefit payable with respect
to a Participant who commenced distribution of a Plan benefit on or before
December 1, 2008. 

The
annual benefit determined under Section 4.02 shall be divided by twelve to
determine a monthly benefit amount.  All annuity benefits under the
Plan shall be payable monthly or at such other periods as the Committee or the
Administrator, as applicable, may determine in each case; a benefit payable
other than monthly shall be adjusted to reflect the period covered by such
payment.  Notwithstanding the preceding, distributions after December
1, 2008 with respect to a Participant who terminates employment on or after
December 1, 2008 shall only be made in the form of a lump sum or installments
over a period of 120 months, except with respect to a SERP
Election. 

Section
      4.07   

Mid-Career
      Pension Benefit 

The
description of the Mid-Career Pension Benefit is set forth in Section 4.07E of
Appendix E. 

Section
      4.08   

Treatment
      During Subsequent Employment 

Effective
beginning January 1, 2005, benefits shall not be suspended during a period of
employment or reemployment. Benefits paid upon a subsequent termination of
employment shall be reduced by the actuarial equivalent of the benefit payments
that were continued during reemployment. 

(a)     Commencement
Prior to 2005 

Provisions
governing the payment of pension benefits that commenced after 2004 and prior to
2009 are set forth in Section 4.09E of Appendix E. 

(b)     Commencement
After 2004 and Prior to 2009 

Provisions
governing the payment of pension benefits that commenced after 2004 and prior to
2009 are set forth in Section 4.09E of Appendix E. 

(c)     Commencement
After 2008 

Payment
of benefits that commence after December 1, 2008, except in the case of a
survivor benefit payable with respect to a Participant who commenced
distribution of a Plan benefit on or before December 1, 2008, shall be made in
the time and form as described in the following subparagraphs (i) through (iv),
as applicable. 

(i)  Participants Terminating
Prior to 2005 :  The provisions of Section 4.09E regarding the
time and form of payment of benefits under the Plan shall apply with respect to
benefits commencing after 2008 to or with respect to a Participant who
terminated employment prior to 2005.  If such an individual is rehired
into a position covered by this Plan after 2004, the terms of the Plan shall
apply separately to the benefit earned prior to 2005 and the benefit earned
after 2004. 

(ii)
 Participants
Terminating Employment after 2004 and Prior to December 1, 2008 : Subject
to the provisions of Section 4.09(d) and Section 6.01, benefits payable to or
with respect to a Participant who terminates employment after December 31, 2004
and prior to December 1, 2008 shall be paid 

(A) if
distribution of benefits to or on behalf of the Participant commence on or
before December 1, 2008, pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.09E,
or 

(B) if
distribution of benefits does not commence on or before December 1, 2008, the
annual benefit amount to which such Participant is entitled commencing at Normal
Retirement Date shall be determined under the terms of the Plan as set forth in
Appendix E.  Distribution of such benefit shall be made to the
Participant commencing on July 1, 2009 in the form of a lump sum, equal to the
present value determined pursuant to Section 4.09(c)(iv); provided, however, if
the amount so determined exceeds $50,000, distribution shall be paid in monthly
installments over a period of 120 months. If the Participant dies prior to the
commencement of such payment, distribution equal to the present value of the
amount that otherwise would have been payable to the Participant shall be made
on July 1, 2009 to the Surviving Spouse, if any, otherwise to the estate of the
Participant.  If the Surviving Spouse entitled to receive the benefit
described in the preceding sentence dies after the Participant but before
distribution of such benefit, the benefit shall be paid to the estate of the
Surviving Spouse. Survivor benefits, if any, upon death following commencement
of distribution to the Participant shall be determined pursuant to the
provisions of Section 4.10(d). 

(iii)  Participants Terminating
Employment on or After December 1, 2008 : Subject to the provisions of
Section 4.09(c)(iv) and Section 4.09(d), benefits payable to or with respect to
a Participant who terminates employment on or after December 1, 2008 shall be
paid as follows: 

(A)  Participants Who Are Not
SERP Participants : 

The  Plan Retirement Benefit  for a
Participant who does not become a SERP Participant is equal to the sum of (i)
the benefit earned prior to January 1, 1998, determined pursuant to the
provisions of Section 4.02E, and (ii) the Benefit Based on the Qualified
Deferrals Cash Balance Account, if any, payable at Normal Retirement Date and
determined pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.11, expressed as a single
life annuity payable commencing at Normal Retirement Date. Distribution of such
benefit shall be paid in the form of a lump sum, in an amount determined
pursuant to Section 4.09(c)(iv), upon the Participant s Termination of
Employment; provided, however, if the present value so determined exceeds
$50,000, distribution shall be paid in monthly installments over a period of 120
months. If the Participant dies before receiving a complete distribution of the
benefits so determined, survivor benefits, if any, shall be paid in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.10. 

(B)  Participants Who Are SERP
Participants on December 31, 2008 : 

(I) A Participant who is a SERP
Participant on December 31, 2008 shall continue to accrue benefits under the
Cash Balance Formula until the earlier of his or her SERP Vesting Date or
termination of employment. As of such date, the Participant s benefit under the
Plan shall be determined as the greater of (A) the Participant s benefit, if
any, determined pursuant to Section 4.02 or (B) the sum of (i) the Benefit
Attributable to the Cash Balance Formula and (ii) the Benefit Attributable to
Qualified Deferrals, determined as if payment of such benefit were to commence
on such date. The amount of the monthly benefit so determined, expressed as a
single life annuity, shall be fixed and shall not change (the  Frozen Single
Life Annuity  

(II) Subject to the provisions of
Section 4.09(d), upon Termination of Employment, distribution of the benefit
determined pursuant to subparagraph (I) shall commence in a form of payment
determined pursuant to such Participant s SERP Election, as defined
herein.  The amount payable to such Participant shall be the actuarial
equivalent of the single life annuity determined pursuant to subparagraph (I),
based on actuarial equivalent factors under the AT T SERP as of the
Participant s Termination of Employment. Survivor benefits, if any, following
the death of the Participant shall be determined in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.10. 

(C)  Participants who become SERP
Participants after December 31, 2008 : 

(I) A Participant who becomes a SERP
Participant after December 31, 2008 shall not be entitled to accrued additional
benefits under the Plan after December 31, 2008.  The sum of (i) the
benefit earned prior to January 1, 1998, determined pursuant to the provisions
of Section 4.02E, and (ii) the Benefit Attributable to Qualified Deferrals,
determined pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.11, if any, shall be
determined as if payment of such benefits were to commence on the SERP Effective
Date, and the amount of the monthly benefit so determined, expressed as a single
life annuity, shall be fixed and shall not change (the  Frozen Single Life
Annuity ). 

(II) Subject to the provisions of
Section 4.09(d), distribution of the benefit determined pursuant to subparagraph
(I) shall be paid in the form of a lump sum or in 120 monthly installments
commencing upon Termination of Employment; the applicable form of payment shall
be determined on the Participant s SERP Effective Date, based on the present
value of the Frozen Single Life Annuity if distribution of such benefit
commenced on the SERP Effective Date in the form of a single life annuity, and
based on the actuarial assumptions in effect under the SERP as of such
date.  If the present value determined as of such SERP Effective Date
is $50,000 or less, the form of payment shall be a lump sum, and if the present
value exceeds $50,000, the form of payment shall be 120 monthly
installments.  The amount of the benefit payable commencing at
Termination of Employment shall be determined in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.09(c)(iv).  If the Participant dies before receiving a
complete distribution of the benefits so determined, survivor benefits, if any,
shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section
4.10. 

(iv)  Determination of Present
Value:   For purposes of Section 4.09(c)(ii)(B), Section
4.09(c)(iii)(A), and Section 4.09(c)(iii)(C), present value shall be determined
as follows: 

(A)       Employee who is not a
      SERP Participant:  with respect to a Participant described in
      Section 4.09(c)(ii)(B) or Section 4.09(c)(iii)(A), an amount equal to the
      present value of the single life annuity that would be payable under the
      Plan commencing on the Participant s Normal Retirement
      Date.  Such present value shall be determined on the basis of
      actuarial assumptions under the Qualified Plan as of such date, calculated
      as follows: the annual amount of such benefit payable at Normal Retirement
      Date shall be multiplied by the factor for determining the lump sum value
      as set forth in Appendix B of the Qualified Plan for the Participant s age
      at Termination of Employment.  Notwithstanding the preceding,
      for a Participant described in Section 4.09(c)(ii)(B), the present value
      shall be based on the Participant s age as of December 1, 2008, and the
      amount so determined will be accumulated to July 1, 2009 at an effective
      annual interest rate of four percent;
and 

(B)        Employee who is a SERP
      Participant other than a SERP Participant on December 31,
      2008:   with respect to a Participant described in Section
      4.09(c)(iii)(C), the present value of the amount payable commencing at
      Termination of Employment shall be determined by multiplying the Frozen
      Single Life Annuity (determined pursuant to Section 4.09(c)(iii)(C)(I)) by
      an immediate annuity factor based on the age of the Participant at
      Termination of Employment.  The immediate annuity factor shall
      be based on the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in effect for
      the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the
      Participant s Termination of Employment, and as defined in the
      SERP. 

With
respect to benefits payable in installments over a period of 120 months, the
amount of each monthly installment shall be calculated in the same manner that a
financial institution would calculate the monthly payments for a 10-year fixed
interest loan, based on the present value of Plan benefits determined pursuant
to Section 4.09(c)(iv). The interest rate used in the calculations shall be
equal to the Code Section 417(e) interest rate in effect under the Pension Plan
on the date of the Participant s Termination of Employment, or, with respect to
distributions made pursuant to Section 4.09(c)(ii)(B), the rate in effect for
the 2008 calendar year. 

(d)     Payments
to Specified Employees 

Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding sections 4.09(a) through 4.09(c), effective on
and after January 1, 2005 with respect to payments in the form of a commercial
annuity pursuant to Section 6.01 and effective on and after January 1, 2009 with
respect to all other payments under the Plan, payment under the Plan to or with
respect to a Participant who is eligible to participate in the SERP or who is
determined to meet the definition of Specified Employee shall be payable as
otherwise provided in this Plan, except that the initial payment shall be made
no earlier than six (6) months following his or her Termination of
Employment.  If, absent this Section 4.09(d), payment to a Specified
Employee would have commenced before the expiration of such six-month period,
the first payment with respect to such Specified Employee will include the sum
of the annuity payments withheld, together with interest
thereon.    For purposes of the immediately preceding
sentence, interest shall be credited using the GAAP Rate in effect as of the end
of the calendar year immediately preceding the Participant s Termination of
Employment, for distributions made after December 31, 2007.   GAAP
Rate  means such rate as defined under the SERP for the referenced period.
Notwithstanding the preceding, for distributions made prior to January 1, 2008,
interest credited for purposes of this Section 4.09(d) shall be at an effective
annual rate equal to 120 percent of the Federal Mid-term rate in effect as of
the date such annuity payments otherwise would have commenced. 

Section
      4.10   

Payment
      of Plan Benefits Following Death 

The provisions of this Section 4.10
apply upon the death of a Participant who is an employee on or after December 1,
2008, and, for purposes of Section 4.10(d), upon the death of a Participant
described in Section 4.09(c)(ii)(B). 

(a)  Death prior to
commencement :  If a Participant described in Section
4.09(c)(iii) dies before Termination of Employment, or following Termination of
Employment but before the date as of which distribution of the Plan benefit
commences, benefits will be payable in a lump sum to the  Spouse, or
if there is no surviving Spouse, to the Participant s estate.  The
amount of such lump sum payment shall be determined pursuant to the provisions
of Section 4.10(c). 

(b)  Death of Spouse before
payment of survivor benefit :  If a Participant dies before the
date as of which distribution of the Plan benefits commences, and he or she is
survived by a Spouse entitled to payment pursuant to Section 4.10(a), and such
surviving Spouse dies prior to the date payment of benefits under this Plan
commence, a lump sum benefit shall be payable to the estate of the Spouse upon
the death of the Spouse. The amount of such lump sum payment shall be determined
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.10(c). 

(c)  Determination of lump sum
amount for death before commencement : 

(i) With respect to a Participant
described in Section 4.09(c)(iii)(A), the lump sum payment payable pursuant to
Section 4.10(a) or Section 4.10(b) shall be an amount equal to the present value
of the Plan Retirement Benefit, as defined in Section
4.09(c)(iii)(A).  Such present value shall be determined on the basis
of actuarial assumptions under the Qualified Plan as of the date of death,
calculated as follows: the annual amount the Plan Retirement Benefit, payable in
the form of a single life annuity commencing at Normal Retirement Date shall be
multiplied by the factor for determining the lump sum value as set forth in
Appendix B of the Qualified Plan for the Participant s age at
death; 

(ii) The lump sum payment payable
pursuant to Section 4.10(a) or Section 4.10(b) upon the death of a Participant
who is a SERP Participant, shall be determined by multiplying the Frozen Single
Life Annuity determined pursuant to Section 4.09(c)(iii)(B) or Section
4.09(c)(iii)(C), as applicable, by an immediate annuity factor based on the age
of the Participant as of the date of death.  The immediate annuity
factor shall be based on the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in
effect for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the date
of death and as defined in the SERP. 

(d)  Death following commencement
of distribution for a Participant who is not a SERP Participant on December 31,
2008 :  If a Participant described in Section 4.09(c)(ii)(B),
Section 4.09(c)(iii)(A) or Section 4.09(c)(iii)(C) dies following distribution
of Plan benefits in the form of a lump sum, no benefit shall be payable
following the death of the Participant. If the Participant is receiving payment
of the Plan benefit in the form of 120 monthly installments, the present value
of the remaining payments shall be made to the surviving Spouse of the
Participant, or if there is no surviving Spouse, to the estate of the
Participant. Such present value shall be calculated using the interest rate that
was used to determine the amount of the monthly installments at the time
distribution of such payments commenced. 

(e)  Death following commencement
of distribution for a Participant who is a SERP Participant on December 31,
2008 :  Upon the death following commencement of benefits under
the Plan of a Participant who is a SERP Participant on December 31, 2008,
further payment of benefits related to the retirement benefit under the Plan
shall be the survivor benefit, if any, payable under the terms of an election
made on or before December 31, 2008 with respect to benefits that may become
payable to the Participant under the SERP, determined under the actuarial
assumptions and methodology set forth in the SERP.   Any survivor
benefit payable pursuant to this Section 4.10(e) shall be paid to the same
beneficiary to whom survivor benefits are payable under the SERP. 

Section
      4.11   

Qualified
      Deferrals Cash Balance Account 

A Qualified Deferral Cash Balance
Account was added to the Plan effective January 1, 2005, or such later date on
which an Officer, E-band Employee, or other eligible employee began deferring
certain compensation under the AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan or
the AT T Inc. Cash Deferral Plan ( Qualified Deferrals,  as defined in
Section 2.35 herein).  Annual Qualified Deferral Credits were
discontinued under the Plan effective with respect to amounts deferred under
such deferral plan from any paycheck dated after December 31, 2007. 

Deferral Interest Credits shall
continue to be credited to the Qualified Deferral Cash Balance Account of all
Participants who made Qualified Deferrals as defined herein. The Benefit Based
on the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account shall be the benefit commencing
at Normal Retirement determined pursuant to the provisions of Section
4.11E(e).  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, with respect to a
Participant who is an Officer, the following provisions shall
apply: 

(i) with respect to a Participant who
is an Officer prior to December 31, 2008, Deferral Interest Credits shall cease
as of the earlier of the Participant s termination of employment or SERP Vesting
Date.  In the latter case, the provisions of Section 4.11E(d) with
respect to application of the interest credit shall be applied as if the SERP
Vesting Date is the Participant s commencement date.   The amount
of the single life annuity that would be payable from the Qualified Deferral
Cash Balance Account commencing as of the date or termination or the SERP
Vesting Date shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section
4.11E(e).  Any reference to the Benefit Based on the Qualified
Deferral Cash Balance Account for a period after the SERP Vesting Date shall
mean the benefit so determined as of such date; and 

(ii) with respect to a Participant who
becomes an Officer after December 31, 2008, Deferral Interest Credits shall
cease as of the Participant s SERP Effective Date. The provisions of Section
4.11E(d) with respect to application of the interest credit shall be applied as
if the SERP Effective Date is the Participant s commencement
date.   The amount of the single life annuity that would be
payable from the Qualified Deferral Cash Balance Account commencing as of the
SERP Effective Date shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.11E(e).  Any reference to the Benefit Based on the Qualified
Deferral Cash Balance Account for a period after the SERP Effective Date shall
mean the benefit so determined as of such date. 
  
      Article
5. 

      Death
Benefits 

A Death
Benefit shall be provided under this Article 5, in the following cases: (a) upon
the death prior to January 1, 1998 of an active Officer; (b) upon the death of
an Officer who, on or after August 10, 1980 and prior to January 1, 1998, (i)
terminated employment with eligibility for a pensioner death benefit under the
Pension Plan (excluding for purposes of this Section 5.01 the effect of any
management pension enhancement pursuant to the Pension Plan) or (ii) terminated
employment with eligibility to receive payments under the AT T Senior
Management Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan; (c) upon the death
prior to January 1, 2008 of an active Officer, provided such Officer is eligible
for the sickness death benefit under the Pension Plan; or (d) upon the death of
an Officer who is on the active payroll of a Participating Company on January 1,
1998 and who terminates employment prior to January 1, 2008, if such Officer was
Service Pension Eligible or otherwise satisfied eligibility requirements for the
Pensioner Death Benefit under the Pension Plan (such as, under certain
circumstances, the Rule of 65, as defined in the Pension Plan), at the time of
his or her termination of employment (excluding for purposes of this Section
5.01 the effect of any management pension enhancement pursuant to the Pension
Plan). A Participant who terminates employment on or after January 1, 1998 and
is subsequently reemployed prior to January 1, 2008 shall not be eligible for a
Death Benefit following such reemployment unless he or she was eligible for the
pensioner death benefit under the Pension Plan as of the date of such earlier
termination of employment, and provided further that such Participant s last
employment with a Participating Company was with one covered by the death
benefit provisions of the Pension Plan; such eligibility for a Death Benefit
shall terminate with respect to a Participant who remains employed within the
AT T Controlled Group on January 1, 2008. 

Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding paragraph, no Death Benefit under this Article 5
shall be provided with respect to a Participant who made a qualified election
for a form of payment that resulted in a lump sum distribution of the full
present value of his or her accrued benefit (as reduced to reflect the
limitations of Code Section 415 and Code Section 401(a)(17) as of the
Participant s Pension Commencement Date) under the Pension Plan. 

The Death
Benefit under this Article 5 is in addition to the sickness and pensioner death
benefits under the Death Benefit Plan in the Pension Plan, and shall be paid to
the same beneficiary or beneficiaries, and administered in the same manner as
such benefits under the Death Benefit Plan in the Pension
Plan.  Notwithstanding the preceding, effective for deaths occurring
on or after January 1, 2009, the Death Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum
within a reasonable period of time following the date the Beneficiary is
identified by the Committee or its delegate. 

(a)     Sickness
or Pensioner Death Benefit 

In the
case of the death of an Officer described in Section 5.01, as eligible for death
benefit coverage, except as otherwise determined under Section 5.02(a)(ii), a
Death Benefit equal to one year s wages (as defined below) shall be
paid. 

(i)           Death
after January 1, 1996 and before January 1, 1998 

For
purposes of determining the Death Benefit payable under Section 5.02(a), with
respect to an Officer described in Section 5.01, who died after January 1, 1994
and before January 1, 1998,  one year s wages  is defined as the greater of (A)
the Officer s Short Term Award for the calendar year preceding the earlier of
(i) his or her date of death, or (ii) the date of his or her termination of
employment, or (B) the Officer s Short Term Award with respect to any later
partial calendar year of service, but only with respect to a calendar year prior
to 1998. 

(ii)           Death
on or after January 1, 1998 

For
purposes of determining the Death Benefit under Section 5.02(a), with respect to
an Officer described in Section 5.01, who dies on or after January 1, 1998, the
amount of the Death Benefit shall equal the amount that would have been payable
if the Participant died with eligibility for the Death Benefit as of December
31, 1997. 

(b)     Other
Post-Retirement Death Benefits 

Additional
death benefits described in this Section 5.02(b) shall be provided, (i) with
respect to an Officer who terminated employment on a service pension or
disability pension under the Pension Plan, after December 31, 1986 and before
January 1, 1997 (or who terminated employment on a service pension or a
disability pension prior to December 31, 1986, provided he or she did not attain
age fifty-five on or before December 31, 1983), and (ii) with respect to an
Officer who terminates employment after December 31, 1996, only if such Officer
is Service Pension Eligible at the time of his or her termination of
employment.  The death benefits described under Section 5.02(b)(ii)
shall also be paid upon the death of an Officer who terminates employment with
entitlement to the benefits under the AT T Senior Management Long Term
Disability and Survivor Protection Plan. 

(i)     Group
Life Differential 

Upon the
death of an Officer, age sixty-six or older who retired after December 31, 1986
and before October 1, 1990, the difference between (i) the amount of his or her
Basic Group Life Insurance coverage under the Company s Group Life Insurance
Program, as in effect on the day before his or her sixty-sixth birthday, and
(ii) the amount of such insurance coverage, as in effect on the date of his or
her death, shall be paid in a lump sum to the beneficiary or beneficiaries
designated by the Officer, or, if there is no such beneficiary, to the Officer s
estate. 

(ii)     Tax
Differential 

An
individual who is the beneficiary of a deceased retired Officer or of an Officer
who terminated employment with entitlement to payments under the AT T Senior
Management Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan, and who receives
one or more of the benefits listed below, shall be eligible to receive, under
this Section 5.02(b)(ii), a tax differential payment related to the difference
between (i) the beneficiary s assumed federal income tax liability on such
benefit or benefits and (ii) the beneficiary s assumed federal income tax
liability had such benefit or benefits been paid as a non-tax death benefit
under a life insurance policy on the life of the retired Officer: 

(A) 

Post-Retirement
      Survivor Annuity described in Section
4.04(b), 

(B) 

Pensioner
      Death Benefit described in Section
5.02(a), 

(C) 

Group
      Life Differential Death Benefit described in Section
      5.02(b)(i), 

(D) 

Pensioner
      Death Benefit described in Article 5 of the Pension
  Plan, 

(E) 

The
      Death Benefit described in Section 5 of the AT T Senior Management
      Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan,
  and 

(F) 

The
      Death Benefit described in the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation
      Plan. 

Pursuant
to the terms of the various plans described above, no benefit identified in (A),
(B), (C), (D) or (F) is payable with respect to a Participant who terminates
employment after December 31, 2007 (or such earlier date as may be specified in
such plan), and no benefit shall be payable under this Plan with respect to such
plans. 

Federal
estate tax, state and local inheritance taxes, and state and local income taxes,
shall not be considered in computing the tax differential payment under this
Section 5.02(b)(ii). 

Article
6. 

      Source
Of Payment 

(a)     Benefits
arising under this Plan and all costs, charges, and expenses relating thereto
will be payable from the Company s general assets. The Company may, however,
establish a trust to pay such benefits and related expenses, provided such trust
does not cause the Plan to be  funded  within the meaning of ERISA. To the
extent trust assets are available, they may be used to pay benefits arising
under this Plan and all costs, charges, and expenses relating thereto. To the
extent that the funds held in the trust, if any, are insufficient to pay such
benefits, costs, charges and expenses, the Company shall pay such benefits,
costs, charges, and expenses from its general assets. 

(b)   In
addition, the Company may, in its sole discretion, purchase and distribute one
or more commercial annuity contracts, or cause the trustee of the trust to
purchase and distribute one or more commercial annuity contracts, to make
benefit payments required under this Plan, to any Officer, as defined herein, or
the Surviving Spouse of any Officer, provided, however, that with respect to an
annuity purchase occurring prior to January 1, 2005,  the purchase and
distribution of any such annuity contracts shall be no sooner than the
expiration of any forfeiture provisions applicable to the
Officer  under the AT T Non-Competition Guidelines, or as
otherwise may be provided in accordance with procedures establish by the
Executive Vice President   Human Resources (or any successor to such position),
and provided further that, effective January 1, 2004, the Company s right to
direct that payments under the Plan shall be made through one or more commercial
annuity contracts shall be applicable to only the benefits payable to any
Participant, or the Surviving Spouse of any such Participant, as applicable, who
(1) was  on the active payroll of the Company (or on an approved leave
of absence with guaranteed right of reinstatement) and classified as an Officer
on December 31, 2003, and (2) satisfies the age and service requirements, or is
within twelve months of satisfying the  requirements in effect at the
time the Participant terminates employment with the Company for the receipt of
retirement-related health benefits under the AT T Corp. Postretirement
Welfare Benefits Plan (or any successor to such plan) (other than by virtue of
the  Rule of 65 or  through a Company-sponsored employee-paid health
benefits access program, or through the AT T Corp. Separation Medical Plan),
without regard to whether or not the Officer has five years of service as of
December 31, 1999. 

Any such
annuity contracts described above may be purchased from a commercial insurer
acceptable to the Executive Vice President - Human Resources (or any successor
to such position). Further, the Executive Vice President - Human Resources (or
any successor to such position), may determine, in his or her sole discretion,
to pay additional sums to any Officer, from the Company s general assets or from
the trust, if any, to reimburse the Officer for additional federal and state
income taxes estimated to be incurred by reason of the distribution of any such
annuity contracts. The Executive Vice President - Human Resources (or any
successor to such position) shall establish a methodology or methodologies for
determining the amount of such additional sums. The methodology or methodologies
selected shall be those that the Executive Vice President - Human Resources (or
any successor to such position) determines, in his or her sole discretion, to be
the most effective and administratively feasible for the purpose of producing
after-tax periodic benefit payments that approximate the after-tax periodic
benefit payments that would have been received by Officers in the absence of the
distribution of the annuity contract.  Any such purchase and
distribution of an annuity contract shall be a full and complete discharge of
the Plan s, AT T s and the Participating Companies  liability for payments
assumed by the issuer of the annuity contract. 

(c)    Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding Section 6.01(b), effective January 1, 2005, a
Participant who is eligible to elect to receive his or her benefit under the
Plan in the form of a third-party commercial annuity contract pursuant to
Section 6.01(b) shall be required to submit an election, on a form provided by
the Company, with respect to the time and form of payment in which benefits
under this Plan shall be distributed for any reason other than the death of the
Participant.  Such election form shall be submitted to the Company no
later than one of the following dates, whichever is applicable:  (i)
such Participant s separation from service, with respect to distribution of such
annuity contract during the 2005 calendar year, (ii) the earlier of (A) such
employee s separation from service, or (B) December 31, 2005, with respect to
the distribution of such annuity contract during the 2006 calendar year, and
(iii) December 31, 2006, for distributions of such annuity contracts occurring
after the 2006 calendar year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Company may permit such a Participant to submit a distribution election form in
2006 with respect to his or her benefits under the Plan, provided that such
election in the 2006 calendar year may not result in a change in payment
elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive
during the 2006 calendar year, or to cause payments to be made in 2006, to the
extent permitted under the proposed Treasury Regulations under Code Section
409A. 

(d)  Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding Section 6.01(b) and Section 6.01(c), the annuity
purchase program described in Section 6.01(b) shall be discontinued effective
September 6, 2007, and any election in effect on September 6, 2007 pursuant to
which a Participant has elected to receive distribution of his or her benefits
under this Plan through the purchase of a commercial annuity contract shall be
null and void, as such election relates to any distribution from this Plan to a
Participant or Surviving Spouse occurring after September 6, 2007. 

The Plan
at all times shall be entirely unfunded for purposes of the Code and ERISA, and,
except as provided in Section 6.01, no provision shall be made at any time with
respect to segregating any assets of a Participating Company for the payment of
any benefits hereunder. The Plan constitutes a mere promise by the Participating
Companies to make payments, if any, in the future. No Participant, surviving
Spouse or any other person shall have any interest in any particular assets of a
Participating Company by reason of the right to receive a benefit under the
Plan, and to the extent a Participant, surviving Spouse, or any other person,
acquires a right to receive benefits under this Plan, such right shall be no
greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of any Participating
Company. 

Article
7. 

      Administration
Of The Plan 

Section
      7.01   

Administration
      and Authorities 

The Plan
shall be administered by the Company, and it shall have full discretionary
authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Plan,
including the power to interpret the provisions of the Plan, to make
determinations of fact, promulgate rules and regulations, to determine benefit
eligibility of individuals and classes of Participants (including, without
limitation, determinations of a Participant s applicable Term of Employment and
Position Rate), delegate its powers and duties hereunder to the Committee, the
Administrator, or others, and to take such other action as it shall find
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of the Plan. The Committee
and the Administrator may retain attorneys, consultants, accountants or other
persons (who may be employees of the Company or an Affiliated Corporation) to
render advice and assistance, and may delegate any of the authorities conferred
on them to such persons as they shall determine to be appropriate to effect the
discharge of their duties hereunder. The Company, other Participating Companies,
and any of their Officers and E-band Employees, shall be entitled to rely upon
the advice, opinions, and determinations of any such persons. Any exercise of
the authorities set forth in this Article 7, whether by the Company, the
Committee or its delegate, or the Administrator, shall be final and binding upon
the Company, its Affiliated Corporations, their officers, directors and affected
Participants and beneficiaries. 

The
Company has delegated to the Committee the authority to make the final
determination to grant or deny claims for benefits under the Plan with respect
to Participants, surviving Spouses, and other beneficiaries, and to authorize
disbursements according to the terms of the Plan. 

No member
of the Board, the Committee or the Administrator shall be personally liable, by
reason of any contract or other instrument executed by such individual, or on
his or her behalf, in his or her capacity as a member of the Board, the
Committee or the Administrator, nor for any mistake of judgment made in good
faith, and AT T shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Board,
each member of the Committee, the Administrator and each other employee,
officer, or director of AT T, to whom any duty or power relating to the
administration or interpretation of the Plan have been allocated or delegated,
against any cost or expense (including attorneys  fees) or liability (including
any sum paid in settlement of a claim) arising out of any act or omission to act
in connection with the Plan, unless arising out of such person s own fraud or
bad faith. 

Section
      7.04   

Benefit
      Claims and Appeals 

(a)     Benefit
Claims 

All
claims for benefit payments under the Plan shall be submitted in writing by the
Participant, a Surviving Spouse, beneficiary, or the estate of the Participant,
or the duly authorized representative of such person or estate ( Claimant  for
purposes of this Section 7.04) to the Administrator. The Administrator shall
notify the Claimant in writing within 90 days after receipt as to whether the
claim has been granted or denied. This period may be extended for up to an
additional 90 days, for a total of 180 days, in the case of special
circumstances provided that written notice of the extension is furnished to the
Claimant prior to the termination of the initial 90-day period. The extension
notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time
and the date by which the Administrator expects to render the benefit
determination. In the event the claim is denied, in whole or in part, the
Claimant will receive notice of the Administrator s decision, including: (i) the
specific reasons for the adverse determination, (ii) reference to the pertinent
Plan provisions on which the adverse determination is based, (iii) a description
of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect
the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary,
and (iv) a description of the Plan s procedures for appealing the adverse
determination (including applicable time limits) and the Claimant s right to
bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse
determination on review. 

(b)     Benefit
Appeals 

A Claimant whose claim for benefits has
been denied, in whole or in part, may, within 60 days of receipt of any adverse
benefit determination, appeal such denial to the Committee. All appeals shall be
in the form of a written statement and shall (i) set forth all of the reasons in
support of favorable action on the appeal, (ii) identify those provisions of the
Plan upon which the Claimant is relying, and (iii) include copies of any other
documents, records and other materials which may support favorable consideration
of the claim. If the Claimant submits a written request for review of a denied
claim, the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge,
reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other
information relevant to the claim (as defined in DOL Reg.  2560.503-1(m)(8) for
claims filed on or after January 1, 2002), and (iv) a statement of the right of
the Claimant to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an
adverse benefit determination on review.  The Claimant may raise
issues even if such issues were not raised in the initial benefit determination.
The Committee shall decide the issues presented within 60 days after receipt of
such request, but this period may be extended for up to an additional 60 days in
the case of special circumstances provided that written notice of the extension
is furnished to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial 60-day
period.  The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances
requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Committee expects to
render the determination. In the case of an adverse determination, the decision
of the Committee shall be set forth in writing and include (i) the specific
reason or reasons for the adverse determination, (ii) reference to the pertinent
Plan provisions on which the denial is based, (iii) a statement that the
Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable
access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information (as
defined in DOL Reg.  2560.503-1(m)(8) for claims filed on or after January 1,
2002) relevant to the Claimant s claim for benefits, and (iv) a statement of the
right of the Claimant to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of
ERISA. 

Any
Claimant whose claim for benefits has been denied shall have such further rights
of review as are provided in ERISA   503, and the Committee and
Administrator shall retain such right, authority, and discretion as is provided
in or not expressly limited by ERISA   503. 

(c)     Final
Review 

The
Committee shall serve as the final review committee, under the Plan and ERISA,
for the review of all appeals by Claimants (as defined in Section 7.04) whose
initial claims for benefits have been denied, in whole or in part, by the
Administrator. The Committee shall have the authority, subject to Section
7.04(c), to determine conclusively for all parties any and all questions arising
from administration of the Plan, and shall have sole and complete discretionary
authority and control to manage the operation and administration of the Plan,
including, but not limited to, authorizing disbursements according to the Plan,
the determination of all questions relating to eligibility for participation and
benefits, interpretation of all Plan provisions, determination of the amount and
kind of benefits payable to any Participant, Surviving Spouse or estate, and the
construction of disputed and doubtful terms. Such decisions by the Committee
shall be conclusive and binding on all parties and not subject to further
review. 

(d)     Action
by Trustee 

In the
event that the Company (or its designee) fails to make a decision on a claim
and/or appeal within 20 days of an event entitling the Claimant to a payment
under this Plan (or, if later, within the ninety/sixty day period, with
extensions, set forth in Section 7.04(a) and (b)), the Trustee of the AT T
Corp. Benefits Protection Trust ( Trust ) may make a decision in lieu of the
Company (or its designee) as authorized by the Trust and subject to the terms
and conditions of the Trust.  Any decision by the Trustee to make a
payment under this Plan to the Claimant is subject to the availability of Trust
assets allocated to pay benefits under this Plan.  A payment to the
Claimant from the prorated Trust assets shall be considered a satisfaction of
the Company s liability under this Plan to the extent payment from the Trust was
sufficient to cover the amount determined by the Trustee as the amount to which
the Claimant was entitled. 

Article
8. 

      Adoption,
Amendment And Termination 

Any
Affiliated Corporation that participates in the Pension Plan may, with the
consent of AT T, elect to participate in the Plan.  Such
Affiliated Corporation shall become a Participating Company as of the date
specified by AT T in its resolution approving the participation of the
Affiliated Corporation in the Plan. 

Section
      8.02   

Amendment
      and Termination 

AT T
is the sponsor of the Plan, and the Board or its delegate, may from time to time
amend, modify or change the Plan, as set forth in this document, and the Board
or its delegate (acting pursuant to the Board s delegations of authority then in
effect) may terminate the Plan at any time.  Plan amendments,
modifications, and changes may include, but are not limited to, elimination or
reduction in the level or type of benefits provided to any class or classes of
Participant (and surviving Spouses and other beneficiaries).  Any and
all Plan amendments, modifications, and changes may be made without the consent
of any Participant, surviving Spouse or beneficiary.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, no such amendment, modification, or change shall retroactively
impair or otherwise adversely affect the rights of any Participant or surviving
Spouse to benefits under the Plan to which he or she has previously become
entitled as a result of a Participant s satisfaction of the vesting schedule of
this Plan which is the same as and never will be greater than the vesting
schedule under the Pension Plan. 

Notwithstanding
the preceding, the Board may adopt any prospective or retroactive amendment that
it determines is necessary for the Plan to maintain its compliance with Code
Section 409A. 

Section
      8.03   

Sale,
      Spin-Off, or Other Disposition of Participating
  Company 

(a)           Subject
to Section 9.01 of this Plan, in the event AT T sells, spins off, or
otherwise disposes of an Affiliated Corporation, or disposes of all or
substantially all of the assets of an Affiliated Corporation, such that one or
more Participants terminate employment with a Participating Company for the
purpose of accepting employment with the acquirer of such Affiliated Corporation
or such assets, each such Participant shall be deemed to have terminated his or
her employment with such Participating Company for all relevant purposes under
this Plan. Notwithstanding the preceding, effective January 1, 2005, no
distribution shall commence pursuant to this Section 8.03(a) unless the
Participant has a separation from service, as defined under Code Section 409A,
with all members of the AT T controlled group. 

(b)           Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 8.03(a), and subject to Section 9.01 of this Plan, if
the sale, spin-off, or other disposition of the stock or assets of an Affiliated
Corporation is to a Successor Plan Sponsor, with the effect that a Participant
is or becomes a Transition Employee, the Successor Plan Sponsor shall be solely
liable for the payment of the annual benefits and death benefits described in
this Plan, and the entitlement of the Transition Employee, or of his or her
surviving Spouse or beneficiary, to benefits under this Plan shall terminate. A
Transition Employee shall not be considered to have terminated his or her
employment with AT T or a Participating Company for any purpose under this
Plan. 

Article
9. 

      General
Provisions 

The Plan
shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Participating Company and
its successors and assigns, and to the benefit of each Participant, his or her
successors, assigns, designees,   spouse, and estate. The
Plan also shall be binding upon any successor corporation or organization
succeeding to substantially all of the assets and business of AT T, but
nothing in the Plan shall preclude AT T from merging or consolidating into
or with, or transferring all or substantially all of its assets to, another
corporation which assumes the Plan and all obligations of AT T hereunder.
AT T agrees that it will make appropriate provision for the preservation of
the rights of Participants, surviving Spouses and beneficiaries under the Plan,
in any agreement or plan or reorganization into which it may enter to effect any
merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets. Upon such a merger,
consolidation, reorganization, or transfer of assets and assumption of
obligations, that results in a Participant continuing to be employed by the
Company or an Affiliated Corporation, the term  Participating Company  shall
refer to such other corporation and the Plan shall continue in full force and
effect as to that Participant and his or her lawful spouse or other
beneficiary. 

Section
      9.02   

Fiduciary
      Relationship 

Nothing
contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of the
Plan, shall create or be construed to create a trust or contract of any kind, or
a fiduciary relationship between or among AT T, any other Participating
Company, any Affiliated Corporation, the Board, the Administrator, the
Committee, any Participant, any surviving Spouse or any other
person. 

Section
      9.03   

No
      Guarantee of Employment 

Neither
the Plan, nor any action taken thereunder, shall be construed as (i) a contract
of employment, or (ii) deemed to give any employee the right to be retained in
the employment of a Participating Company, or (iii) the right to any position
level or level of compensation, or (iv) the right to future participation in the
Plan, or (v) affecting the right of a Participating Company to discharge or
dismiss any employee at any time. 

AT T
shall withhold all federal, state, local or other taxes required by law to be
withheld from payments or accruals under the Plan. 

Section
      9.05   

Assignment
      of Benefits 

Benefits
under the Plan may not be anticipated, alienated, sold, transferred, assigned,
pledged, executed upon, encumbered, or subjected to any charge or legal process;
no interest or right to receive a benefit may be taken, either voluntarily or
involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or
claims against, any Participant, Spouse, or beneficiary, including without
limitation, any judgment or claim for alimony, support or separate maintenance
pursuant to a domestic relations order within the meaning of Section 206(d)(3)
of ERISA, and claims in bankruptcy proceedings. Any such attempted disposition
shall be null and void. 

If the
Administrator shall find that any person to whom any amount is or was payable
under the Plan is unable to care for his or her affairs, because of illness or
accident, then any payment, or any part thereof, due to such person (unless a
prior claim therefore has been made by a duly appointed legal representative),
may, if the Administrator so directs AT T, be paid to the same person or
institution that the benefits with respect to such person are paid under the
Pension Plan, if applicable, or to the person s spouse, under the laws of the
state of the person s domicile, Participant s surviving
Spouse,  child, or relative, or to an institution maintaining or
having custody of such person, or to any other person deemed by the
Administrator to be a proper recipient, on behalf of such person otherwise
entitled to payment. Any such payment shall be in complete discharge of the
liability for such amount, of AT T, the Board, the Committee, the
Administrator, and the Participating Company therefore. If any payment, to which
a Participant, a surviving Spouse, or a beneficiary, is entitled under this
Plan, is unclaimed or otherwise not subject to payment to the person or persons
so entitled, the amounts representing such payment or payments shall be
forfeited after a period of two (2) years from the date the first such payment
was payable and shall not escheat to any state or revert to any party; provided,
however, that any such payment or payments shall be restored if any person
otherwise entitled to such payment or payments makes a valid claim. 

If any
section, clause, phrase, provision or portion of this Plan, or the application
thereof, to any person or circumstance, shall be invalid or unenforceable under
any applicable law, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect or
render invalid or unenforceable the remainder of this Plan, and shall not affect
the application of any section, clause, provision, or portion hereof to other
persons or circumstances. 

This Plan
first became effective for Officers actively employed on or after October 1,
1980 and for E-band Employees actively employed on or after on January 1, 1984
and is amended and restated effective January 1, 1997, with subsequent
amendments through December 31, 2008. 

The Plan
Year shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31. 

The
captions of the sections and articles hereof have been inserted solely as a
matter of convenience and shall not in any manner define or limit the scope or
intent of any provision of the Plan. 

To the
extent such laws are not preempted by the laws of the United States of America,
the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas, except as to its
principles of conflict of laws. 

Section
      9.12   

Forfeiture
      of Benefits 

Except as
provided in this Section 9.12 and Section 3.02, benefits previously awarded may
not be canceled, and upon attaining the right under the Plan for a Service
Benefit or a  Deferred Vested Benefit, or for an automatic survivor
annuity, such right shall be nonforfeitable. Notwithstanding any eligibility or
entitlement to benefits of an individual arising or conferred under any other
provision or paragraph of this Plan, all benefits for which a Participant would
otherwise be eligible hereunder may be forfeited, subject to the requirements of
ADEA (29 CFR 1625.12), (i) at the discretion of the Board or the Committee, if
an individual without the Company s consent establishes a relationship with a
competitor of the Company or (ii) at the discretion of the Executive Vice
President   Human Resources, if an individual violates the AT T
Non-Competition Guideline, as determined by the Executive Vice President   Human
Resources in his or her sole discretion. To the extent a benefit under any other
nonqualified plan of AT T is offset by benefits payable under this Plan,
such offset shall be determined as if a forfeiture had not
occurred. 

Section
      9.13   

Special
      Classification 

For
purposes of the Plan, the determination of those causes of death not classified
as due to accident shall be accomplished in the same manner as set forth in the
Pension Plan, as such plan was in effect on October 1, 1996. 

In case
of accident resulting in the death of a Participant which entitles his or her
beneficiary or beneficiaries or his or her surviving Spouse to death benefits
under the Plan, such beneficiary(ies) or surviving Spouse shall, prior to the
payment of any such benefits, sign a release, releasing the Company and/or other
Participating Companies, as applicable, from all claims and demands which the
deceased had and which his or her beneficiary(ies) or his or her surviving
Spouse may have against them, otherwise than under the Plan, on account of such
accident. If any person(s), other than the beneficiary(ies) and/or the surviving
Spouse under this Plan, might legally assert claims against a Participating
Company on account of the death of a Participant, no part of the Death Benefit
under the Plan shall be due or payable until there have also been delivered to
the Committee or the Administrator, as applicable, good and sufficient releases
of all claims, arising from or growing out of the death of the Participant,
which such other beneficiary(ies) and/or surviving Spouse might legally assert
against any Participating Company. The Committee or the Administrator, as
applicable, in its discretion, may require that the releases described above
shall release any other company connected with the accident. This requirement of
a release or releases shall not apply in the case of Survivor Annuities as
described in Section 4.04. 

Should a
claim, other than under the Plan, be presented, or suit brought against the
Company or any Participating Company, for damages on account of death of the
Participant, nothing shall be payable under the Plan on account of such death
except as provided in Section 9.17; provided, however, that the Committee or the
Administrator, as applicable, may, in its discretion and upon such terms as it
may prescribe, waive this provision if such claim be withdrawn or if such suit
be discontinued; and provided further that this provision shall not preclude the
payment of Survivor Annuities as described in Section 4.04. 

Section
      9.16   

Judgment
      or Settlement 

In case
any judgment is recovered against any Participating Company, or any settlement
is made of any claim or suit, on account of the death of a Participant, and the
amount paid to the beneficiary(ies) or surviving Spouse who would have received
benefits under the Plan is less than what would otherwise have been payable
under the Plan, the difference between the two amounts may, in the discretion of
the Committee or the Administrator, as applicable, be distributed to such
beneficiary(ies) or surviving Spouse. 

In the
case that any benefit (which the Committee or the Administrator, as applicable,
shall determine to be of the same general character as a benefit provided by the
Plan) is payable to any Participant, to his or her beneficiary(ies), to his or
her estate, or to his or her surviving Spouse under any law now in force or
hereafter enacted, only the excess, if any, of the amount prescribed in the
Plan, above the amount of such payment prescribed by law, shall be payable under
the Plan; provided, however, that no benefit payable under the Plan shall be
reduced by reason of any governmental benefit or pension payable on account of
military service or by reason of any benefit which the recipient would be
entitled to receive under the Social Security Act or the Railroad Retirement
Act. In those cases where, because of differences in the beneficiaries, or in
the time or methods of payment or otherwise, the determination of any such
excess is not ascertainable by mere comparison but adjustments are necessary,
the Committee or the Administrator, as applicable, shall, in its discretion,
determine whether or not in fact any such excess exists and make the adjustments
necessary to carry out in a fair and equitable manner the spirit of the
provision for the payment of any such excess. Further, in determining whether or
not there is an excess, to the extent any payments under any law are considered
in determining whether there is any excess payable to an employee under any
other plan sponsored by the Company, the amount of such payments under law shall
not be considered under this Plan. 

(a)   Applicability 

This
Section 9.18 applies only to an individual who, as of the date a Change in
Control ( CIC ) occurs (as defined in the Pension Plan) is an employee of a
Participating Company and a Participant in this Plan. 

(b)   

Nonforfeitable
      Benefits 

Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Plan, on and after the date a CIC occurs, solely
for purposes of determining entitlement to benefits from this Plan, and
individual described in Section 9.18(a) shall be deemed to be vested under the
Pension Plan, whether or not such Participant is otherwise entitled to a vested
benefit from the Pension Plan. 

(c)   

Amendments
      to CIC Provisions 

Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 8.02, or any other provision of the Plan, unless
required by applicable law, this Section 9.18 may not be amended in any manner
adverse to the interests of Participants without their consent and, further,
upon the occurrence of a CIC, no amendment may be made to this Section 9.18 by
the Board, the Company, (including any successor to the Company), any committee,
any officer, or any other party to suspend, modify, or eliminate any benefit
provisions that are applicable upon occurrence of a CIC. 

This
written Plan document is the exclusive statement of the terms of this Plan, and
any claim of right or entitlement under the Plan shall be determined in
accordance with its provisions pursuant to the procedures described in Article
7. Unless otherwise authorized by the Board or its delegate, no amendment or
modification to this Plan shall be effective until reduced to writing and
adopted pursuant to Section 8.02. 

If any overpayment is made by the Plan
for any reason, the Plan shall have the right to recover such
overpayment.  The Participant shall cooperate fully with the Plan to
recover any overpayment and provide any necessary information and required
documents. Any recovery of overpayment pursuant to this Section 9.20 may be
deducted from future benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant from
this Plan. 

AT T
Non-Qualified Pension Plan 

Appendix
A. 

      Section
4.02(c)E Alternate Minimum Formula - Table of Factors 

Appendix
B.                                            

      Early
Retirement Factors   Alternate Formula, Special Update to the Alternate Formula,
and Alternate Minimum Formula 

The
benefit payable under the Alternate Formula of Section 4.02E(b), under the
Special Update to the Alternate Formula of Section 4.02E(e), or under Formula B
of the Alternate Minimum Formula of Section 4.02E(c), for commencement prior to
Normal Retirement Age shall equal the amount otherwise determined under such
sections, multiplied by the applicable factor based on completed years and
months of age effective as of the Pension Commencement Date: 

Attained
Age 

Appendix
C. 

      Initial
Conversion Factors 

Appendix
D.  

      Deferred
Vested Benefit   Early Commencement Factors 

Single
Life Annuity Early Commencement Factors 

Based
Upon Completed Years and Months of Age 

At Commencement of
Non-Service Benefit  

Appendix
E. 

      Article
4E - Pension Benefits 

This Appendix E sets forth the
provisions related to the determination of benefit amounts and payment of such
benefits commencing on or before December 1, 2008, and to the extent indicated
herein, and as modified by Article 4 of the main text of the Plan, the
determination of benefit amounts with respect to certain benefits commencing
after December 1, 2008.   A reference in this Appendix E to a
provision of Article 4 means such provision as set forth in this Appendix E,
unless the reference specifically indicates otherwise. 

Section
4.01E     Applicable Benefit Formulas. 

For
purposes of applying the provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 with respect to a
Participant described in Section 3.02(c), the Participant s  Term of Employment 
and the day for the determination of such a Participant s status as  Service
Pension Eligible  shall be subject to the provisions of Section
3.02(c). 

(a)     Participants
Terminated Before January 1, 1997 

The
Service Benefit, Deferred Vested Benefit, or Disability Benefit payable to a
Participant who terminated employment from a Participating Company prior to
January 1, 1997 is determined in accordance with the terms of the Plan as in
effect from time to time prior to January 1, 1997. 

(b)     Active
Participants on January 1, 1997 

(i)  

Participants Whose Eligibility
      to Accrue Benefits Ends Prior to August 1,
  1997 . 

(A) 

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.01(b)(i)(D), the annual benefit of a
      Participant, who is an Officer or an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997,
      who is an Officer at the time he or she leaves the service of a
      Participating Company prior to August 1, 1997, and who is Service Pension
      Eligible as of the last day of his or her Term of Employment, will be the
      greater of the annual benefit amount determined under the Basic Formula
      described in Section 4.02(a), the annual benefit amount determined under
      the Alternate Formula described in Section 4.02(b), or, in the case of an
      Officer who had at least five Years of Service as an Officer as of
      December 31, 1993, the annual benefit amount determined under the
      Alternate Minimum Formula described in Section
  4.02(c). 

(B) 

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.01(b)(i)(D), the annual benefit of a
      Participant, who is an Officer or an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997,
      who is an Officer at the time he leaves the service of a Participating
      Company prior to August 1, 1997, but who is not Service Pension Eligible
      as of the last day of his or her Term of Employment, will be a Deferred
      Vested Benefit determined under the Basic Formula described in Section
      4.02(a), provided he or she is vested under the Pension Plan at the time
      of termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
      Group.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately
      preceding sentence, if such Participant was an Officer who had at least
      five Years of Service as an Officer as of December 31, 1993, the annual
      benefit shall not be less than the annual benefit determined under the
      Alternate Minimum Formula described in Section
  4.02(c). 

(C) 

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.01(b)(i)(D), the annual benefit of a
      Participant, who is an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997, who terminates
      employment as an E-band Employee prior to August 1, 1997 and who is
      Service Pension Eligible as of the last day of his or her Term of
      Employment, will be the annual benefit amount determined under the
      Alternate Formula described in Section
4.02(b). 

(D) 

Effective
      August 1, 1997, the annual benefit of a Participant described in this
      Section 4.01(b)(i) shall increase (but shall not be decreased) to the
      amount determined pursuant to the following subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(A), if
      the Participant is described in subsection 4.01(b)(i)(A), or to the amount
      determined pursuant to subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(B) if the Participant is
      described in subsection 4.01(b)(i)(B), or to the amount determined
      pursuant to the following subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(D), if the Participant is
      described in subsection 4.01(b)(i)(C).  For purposes of applying
      the provisions of Section 4.01(b)(ii) to increase a benefit which
      commenced prior to August 1, 1997 pursuant to this subsection
      4.01(b)(i)(D), any age-based reduction shall be based on such
      Participant s age on his or her original Pension Commencement
      Date. 

(ii)  

Participants  Whose
      Eligibility to Accrue Benefits Ends after July 31,
      1997 . 

(A) 

Subject
      to the provisions of subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(C) for Officers after December
      31, 1997, the annual benefit of a Participant who is an Officer or an
      E-band Employee on January 1, 1997, who is an Officer at the time he or
      she leaves the service of a Participating Company after July 31, 1997, and
      who is Service Pension Eligible as of his or her termination of employment
      from a Participating Company, will be the greater of the annual benefit
      amount determined under the Special Update to the Basic Formula described
      in Section 4.02(d) and the annual benefit amount determined under the
      Special Update to the Alternate Formula described in Section 4.02(e).
      Notwithstanding the preceding, in no event shall be the benefit with
      respect to a Participant described in this subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(A) be
      less than the amounts determined pursuant to Section
      4.01(b)(i)(A). 

(B) 

Subject
      to the provisions of subsection 4.01(b)(ii)(C), the annual benefit of a
      Participant who is an Officer or an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997,
      who is an Officer at the time he leaves the service of a Participating
      Company after July 31, 1997  but  who is not Service
      Pension Eligible as of the last day of his or her termination of
      employment will be a Deferred Vested Benefit equal to the greater of the
      annual benefit amount determined under the Special Update to the Basic
      Formula described in Section 4.02(d) or the amounts determined pursuant to
      Section 4.01(b)(i)(B), provided he or she is vested under the Pension Plan
      at the time of termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
      Group. 

(C) 

The
      annual benefit of a Participant on January 1, 1997 who is also an Officer
      on or after January 1, 1998 shall not be less than the amount determined
      pursuant to subsection 4.01(d). 

(D) 

Subject
      to the provisions of Section 4.01(d)(ii) regarding an E-band Employee who
      becomes an Officer on or after January 1, 1998, the benefit of a
      Participant who is an E-band Employee on January 1, 1997, who terminates
      employment as an E-band Employee after July 31, 1997, and who is Service
      Pension Eligible as of his or her termination of employment from a
      Participating Company, will be the annual benefit amount determined under
      the Special Update to the Alternate Formula described in Section 4.02(e),
      but shall in no event be less than the amount determined pursuant to
      Section 4.01(b)(i)(C). 

(c)     New
Participants after January 1, 1997 and before January 1, 1998 

(ii) 

An
      individual who first becomes an Officer on or after August 1, 1997, who
      was not previously an E-band Employee, and who leaves the service of a
      Participating Company prior to January 1, 1998 shall not be eligible for
      benefits under the Plan. 

(iii) 

An
      individual, who first becomes a Participant after January 1, 1997 and
      before January 1, 1998, who is not an Officer at any time on or after
      January 1, 1998, and who terminates employment with a Participating
      Company on or after January 1, 1998 shall be eligible for a Service
      Benefit if the Participant is Service Pension Eligible at the time of his
      or her termination of employment from a Participating Company. Such
      benefit shall be determined only under the Alternate Formula described in
      Section 4.02(b). No benefit shall be payable from the Plan if such
      Participant is not Service Pension Eligible at the time of his or her
      termination of employment from a Participating
  Company. 

(d)     Participants
who are Officers on or after January 1, 1998 (Cash Balance
Participants) 

Participants Who Are
Officers Before January 1, 2009  

(i)       An
      individual who is an Officer on or after January 1, 1998, who first became
      an Officer on or after August 1, 1997 and who was not previously an E-band
      Employee shall be eligible for a benefit determined under Section 4.03 if
      such Officer is vested in his or her benefit under the Pension Plan upon
      his or her termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
      Group. 

(ii)      An
      individual who is an Officer on or after January 1, 1998, who was an
      Officer or an E-band Employee prior to August 1, 1997, and whose Pension
      Commencement Date is after July 1, 1998, shall be eligible for a benefit
      from the Plan if such Officer is vested in his or her benefit under the
      Pension Plan upon termination of employment from the AT T Controlled
      Group. The benefit shall be the greater of (A) the benefit determined
      pursuant to Section 4.03, or (B) the sum of (I) the Mid-Career Pension
      Benefit determined pursuant to Section 4.07 and (II) the benefit accrued
      under the Plan prior to January 1, 1998 and payable pursuant to the terms
      of Section 4.01(b)(ii)(A) or Section 4.01(b)(ii)(B), as
      applicable.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, the
      determination of the greater of (A) and (B) shall be made taking into
      account the Pension Commencement Date and the form of payment determined
      in accordance with Section 4.09. 

Participants
Who Become Officers After December 31, 2008  

(iii) 

Notwithstanding
      the preceding Sections 4.01(d)(ii) and 4.01(d)(ii), benefits, if any, with
      respect to an individual who first becomes on Officer after December 31,
      2008 shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of the Plan related to
      a Qualified Deferral Participant or to a Participant who is an E-band
      Employee, as more fully described in the provisions of Article 4 of the
      main text of the Plan effective after December 31, 2008 (such provisions
      which are not included in this Appendix E). Such a Participant shall not
      be eligible for benefits determined under the Cash Balance
      Formula. 

(e)     Surviving
Spouse of an Officer (other than a Cash Balance Participant) 

(i)  An
Automatic Survivor Annuity will be paid to the Spouse to whom an Officer (other
than a Cash Balance Participant) is married at the time of his or her death,
provided such Participant is vested as of his or her date of death, and
satisfies the provisions of Section 4.04(a) or Section 4.04(b), as
applicable.  The benefit payable to such Spouse shall be determined in
accordance with Section 4.04(a) if such Officer is an employee of the AT T
Controlled Group at the time of death, and in accordance with Section 4.04(b) if
such Officer is not an employee of the AT T Controlled Group at the time of
death. 

(ii)  Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding subsection 4.01(e)(i), if the Officer elects
distribution of his or her Pension Plan benefit in the form of a 50% Joint and
Survivor Annuity and dies following his or her Pension Commencement Date, the
surviving Spouse will be eligible for a monthly benefit equal to 50% of the
monthly benefit being paid to the Officer at the time of his or her
death.  The benefit payable to the surviving Spouse will commence on
the first day of the month following the date of the Officer s death. For
purposes of this subsection 4.01(e)(ii), the surviving Spouse is the Spouse to
whom the Officer was married at his or her date of death.  In no event
will a benefit be paid pursuant to this subsection 4.01(e)(ii), if a benefit is
payable pursuant to subsection 4.01(e)(i) or subsection 4.01(g). 

(f)     Surviving
Spouse of an E-band Employee 

An
Automatic Survivor Annuity will be paid to the Spouse to whom an E-band Employee
is married at the time of his or her death while an active employee, provided
such Participant is vested as of his or her date of death, and satisfies the
provisions of Section 4.04(a) at the date of death.  The benefit
payable to such Spouse shall be determined in accordance with Section
4.04(a).  The provisions of this Section 4.01(f) do not apply to a
benefit determined under the cash balance formula of Section 4.11, or to a
benefit based on a Mid-Career Pension Benefit of Section 4.07. 

(g)     Surviving
Spouse (or Estate) of a Cash Balance Participant 

A
benefit, determined pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.10, shall be payable
to the surviving Spouse (or estate, in the case of a Participant who is not
married at the time of death) of a Cash Balance Participant who is vested in his
or her benefit under the Pension Plan as of his or her date of death and who
dies prior to commencing distribution of his or her benefit under the
Plan. 

A
benefit, determined pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.09, shall be payable
to the surviving Spouse of a Cash Balance Participant who dies prior to December
1, 2008 following commencement of his or her benefits under the Plan, if such
Participant s benefit was being paid under the 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity or
100% Joint and Survivor Annuity form of payment. 

(h)     Deferral
Participant 

An
individual who is a Deferral Participant shall be eligible for a benefit
determined pursuant to Section 4.11, provided that such Participant is vested in
his or her benefit under the Pension Plan upon his or her termination of
employment from the AT T Controlled Group.  Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan to the contrary, such benefit shall be payable in
addition to any other benefits otherwise payable under the Plan. 

(i)     Surviving
Spouse (or Estate) of a Deferral Participant 

A
benefit, determined pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.11(f), shall be
payable to the surviving Spouse (or estate, in the case of a Participant who is
not married at the time of death) of a Deferral Participant who is vested in his
or her benefit under the Pension Plan as of his or her date of death and who
dies prior to commencing distribution of his or her benefit under the
Plan. 

A
benefit, determined pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.09, shall be payable
to the surviving Spouse of a Deferral Participant who dies prior to December 1,
2008 following commencement of his or her benefits under the Plan, if such
Participant s benefit was being paid under the 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity or
100% Joint and Survivor Annuity form of payment. 

Section
4.02E     Benefit Formulas (other than Cash
Balance) 

(a)     Basic
Formula 

(i) 

Service
      Benefit .  The annual Service Benefit under the Basic
      Formula shall be determined by adding (A) the product of one and
      five-tenths percent (1.5%) of the average annual Short Term Incentive
      Awards for the 1989 Base Period and the Officer s Term of Employment as of
      December 31, 1989, and (B) the sum of one and six-tenths percent (1.6%) of
      the Short Term Incentive Award for each successive full or partial
      calendar year of employment following 1989, through the earlier of the
      date of termination of active participation in the Plan or July 31,
      1997. 

(ii) 

Service Benefit - Early
      Commencement .  If a Participant commences distribution of
      the annual Service Benefit prior to attainment of age fifty-five, the
      Service Benefit determined in accordance with the Basic Formula of this
      Section 4.02(a) shall be reduced by one-half percent for each calendar
      month or part thereof by which his or her age at commencement is less than
      fifty-five years, except that the Service Benefit for an Officer who
      terminates employment with a Term of Employment of thirty or more years
      shall be reduced by one-quarter percent for each calendar month or part
      thereof by which such Officer s age at commencement is less than
      fifty-five years. 

(iii) 

Deferred Vested
      Benefit . 

The
annual benefit determined under the Basic Formula for as Officer eligible for a
Deferred Vested Benefit under the provisions of Section 3.02(a)(iii) shall be
payable commencing at the Officer s Normal Retirement Date in an amount equal to
the benefit determined pursuant to Section 4.02(a)(i). An Officer who has
elected to have his deferred vested pension under the Pension Plan payable early
in reduced amounts pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan
shall be deemed to have elected to have his or her Deferred Vested Benefit under
this Plan payable early in reduced amounts.  In the event of such an
election, the amount of Deferred Vested Benefit shall be determined as
follows: 

(A) 

with
      respect to payments for the months occurring on or after January, 1997 and
      prior to August, 1997, the amount determined pursuant to Section
      4.02(a)(i) shall be multiplied by a factor determined in accordance with
      Appendix D, based on the Participant s age on his or her Pension
      Commencement Date, or 

(B) 

with
      respect to payments for months commencing on or after August 1, 1997, the
      amount determined pursuant to Section 4.02(a)(i) shall be multiplied by a
      factor of one-half percent for each calendar month or part thereof by
      which the Participant s age at commencement is less than fifty-five years,
      except that the reduction with respect to an Officer with a Term of
      Employment of thirty or more years shall be one-quarter percent for each
      calendar month or part thereof by which such Officer s age at commencement
      is less than fifty-five years. 

(iv) 

Disability
      Benefit .  The annual Disability Benefit payable to a
      Participant who becomes eligible for a disability pension from the Pension
      Plan because of total disability as a result of sickness or injury
      incurred while an Officer, shall be equal to the Service Benefit
      determined pursuant to this Section 4.02(a), unreduced for early
      commencement.  Such Disability Benefit shall continue to be paid
      so long as the employee is prevented by such disability from resuming
      active service with a Participating Company.  If the employee s
      disability continues to his or her Normal Retirement Date, the Disability
      Benefit shall be converted to a Service
Benefit. 

(b)     Alternate
Formula 

The
annual Service Benefit under the Alternate Formula shall be the excess of B over
A, where A equals the Participant s annual Pension Plan Benefit and B equals the
product of (i) one and seven-tenths percent of the Participant s Adjusted Career
Average Pay, less eight-tenths of one percent of the Participant s Covered
Compensation Base, and (ii) the Participant s Term of Employment. The Service
Benefit under this Alternate Formula will be reduced in case of commencement
before age sixty by multiplying such benefit by the appropriate reduction factor
from Appendix B.  For purposes of the Alternate Formula, the
Participant s Term of Employment is determined as of the earliest to occur of
(i) July 31, 1997, (ii) the date specified in the applicable provision of
Section 3.02(c) for purposes of determining a benefit under the Alternate
Formula, or (iii) the date of termination of employment from a Participating
Company. 

(c)     Alternate
Minimum Formula 

The
annual Service Benefit under the Alternate Minimum Formula in this Section
4.02(c) shall be an amount equal to (A) the product of the greater of the amount
determined under the following Formula A or Formula B, multiplied by the
applicable factor set forth in Appendix A, where such factor is based on the
Participant s age and service as of December 31, 1996, less (B) the amount of
the Officer s Pension Plan Benefit (as adjusted to reflect any reduction for
early commencement).  If the Pension Commencement Date under this Plan
occurs prior to the date the Participant is eligible to commence receipt of his
or her deferred vested pension from the AT T Management Pension Plan,
payments under this Plan shall be made without the reduction in (B) of the
immediately preceding sentence until the earliest date on which the Participant
is eligible to commence distribution of such deferred vested pension from the
AT T Management Pension Plan, at which time payments from the Plan shall be
adjusted to reflect such reduction. 

(i) 

Formula
      A .  For purposes of the Alternate Minimum Formula in this
      Section 4.02(c), Formula A means the sum of (a) the product of one
      and five tenths percent of average calendar year Total Compensation for
      the 1992 Base Period and the Term of Employment as of December 31, 1992
      and (b) one and six tenths percent of Total Compensation for the calendar
      year 1993. Such sum shall be actuarially reduced in case of commencement
      before age fifty-five by applying the appropriate reduction factor set
      forth in Section   4.02(a)(ii). 

(ii) 

Formula
      B .  For purposes of the Alternate Minimum Formula in this
      Section 4.02(c), Formula B means the product of (a) the excess of one
      and seven tenths percent of Adjusted Career Average Pay, over eight tenths
      of one percent of the Covered Compensation Base (determined as of December
      31, 1993), and (b) the Officer s Term of Employment at December 31,
      1993.  Such product shall be actuarially reduced in case of
      commencement before age sixty by applying the appropriate reduction factor
      set forth in Appendix B.  Solely for purposes of this Formula B,
       Adjusted Career Average Pay  means the Participant s Total Compensation
      for his or her Term of Employment through December 31, 1993, divided by
      such Participant s Term of Employment as of December 31,
    1993. 

(d)     Special
Update to the Basic Formula 

(i) 

Service
      Benefit.   The annual Service Benefit under the Special
      Update to the Basic Formula shall be equal to one and six-tenths percent
      of the sum of the Officer s average annual Short Term Incentive Awards and
      the average annual Deferred Salary for the 1996 Base Period, multiplied by
      the lesser of (1) one plus the Officer s Term of Employment as of December
      31, 1996 and (2) one hundred and five percent of the Officer s Term of
      Employment as of December 31, 1996. The Special Update to the Basic
      Formula is equal to zero for any determination date prior to January 1,
      1997. 

(ii)   

Service Benefit -   Early
      Commencement .  If a Participant commences distribution of
      the annual Service Benefit prior to attainment of age fifty-five, the
      Service Benefit determined in accordance with the Special Update to the
      Basic Formula of this Section 4.02(d), shall be reduced by one-half
      percent for each calendar month or part thereof by which his or her age at
      commencement is less than fifty-five years, except that the Service
      Benefit for an Officer who terminates employment with  a Term of
      Employment of thirty or more years shall be reduced by one-quarter percent
      for each calendar month or part thereof by which such Officer s age at
      commencement is less than fifty-five
years. 

(iii)   

Deferred Vested
      Benefit .  The annual benefit determined under the Special
      Update to the Basic Formula for each Officer eligible for a Deferred
      Vested Benefit under the provisions of Section 3.02(a)(iii) shall be
      payable commencing at the Normal Retirement Date in an amount equal to the
      benefit determined pursuant to Section 4.02(d)(i). An Officer who has
      elected to have his deferred vested pension under the Pension Plan payable
      early in reduced amounts pursuant to the terms and conditions of the
      Pension Plan shall be deemed to have elected to have his or her Deferred
      Vested Benefit under this Plan payable early in reduced
      amounts.  In the event of such an election, the amount
      determined pursuant to Section 4.02(d)(i) shall be reduced by one-half
      percent for each calendar month or part thereof by which the Participant s
      age at commencement is less than fifty-five years, except that the
      reduction with respect to an Officer with a Term of Employment of thirty
      or more years shall be one-quarter percent for each calendar month or part
      thereof by which such Officer s age at commencement is less than
      fifty-five years. 

(e)      Special
Update to the Alternate Formula 

The
annual Service Benefit under the Special Update to the Alternate Formula shall
be the excess of B over A, where A equals the Participant s Pension Plan Benefit
and B equals the product of (i) and (ii), where (i) is one and seven-tenths
percent of the Participant s Special Update Adjusted Career Average Pay, less
eight-tenths of one percent of the Participant s Covered Compensation Base
(determined as of December 31, 1996), and (ii) is the lesser of (1) one plus the
Participant s Term of Employment as of December 31, 1996 and (2) one hundred and
five percent of the Participant s Term of Employment as of December 31, 1996.
The benefit under this Alternate Formula will be reduced in case the Pension
Commencement Date is before age sixty by applying the appropriate reduction
factor from the Table of such factors shown in Appendix B to such
benefit.  The Special Update to the Alternate Formula is equal to zero
for any determination date prior to January 1, 1997. 

Section
4.03E   Cash Balance Accounts 

The provisions of this Section 4.03E
describe the establishment and development of the Cash Balance Account with
respect to a Participant who is an Officer on or after January 1, 1998 and
before January 1, 2009 with respect to benefits that commence under the Cash
Balance Formula prior to January 1, 2009. Except as modified by the provisions
of Article 4 of the main text of the Plan, the methodology set forth in this
Section 4.03E also applies for purposes of determining a Benefit Based on the
Cash Balance Account with respect to benefits that commence after December 1,
2008 to or with respect to a Participant who was an Officer prior to January 1,
2009. 

The Cash Balance Account with respect
to a Participant who is not an Officer prior to January 1, 2009 shall be
zero. 

(a)     Establishment
of Cash Balance Accounts 

A Cash
Balance Participant s Cash Balance Account is a hypothetical bookkeeping account
used solely in calculating the amount of the Cash Balance Participant s Benefit
Based on the Cash Balance Account. The Cash Balance Account is calculated by
accumulating the initial cash balance credit determined pursuant to Section
4.03(b), annual award credits determined pursuant to Section 4.03(c), and
interest credits determined pursuant to Section 4.03(d). 

A
Participant s Cash Balance Account shall be established as of the later of
January 1, 1998 or the date the Participant becomes a Cash Balance Participant
in the Plan. Except as provided in Section 4.03(b), the initial Cash Balance
Account shall be zero. 

(b)     Initial
Cash Balance Credit 

(i)           Effective
as of January 1, 1998, the Cash Balance Account of each Cash Balance Participant
on the roll of a Participating Company on that date shall be credited with an
initial cash balance credit determined by multiplying the Participant s
conversion benefit (as defined below) by one hundred seven percent (107%) of the
applicable conversion factor set forth in Appendix C, based on the Participant s
attained age (in whole years) as of December 31, 1996.  The Cash
Balance Participant s conversion benefit under this Section 4.03(b) shall equal
one-twelfth of his or her annual benefit determined in accordance with Section
4.02(d). 

(ii)           The
initial cash balance credit shall be zero for any Participant who is not an
Officer on January 1, 1998.    

(c)     Annual
Award Credit 

(i)     January
1, 1998 

Effective
as of January 1, 1998, the Cash Balance Account of each Cash Balance Participant
on the roll of a Participating Company on that date shall be credited with an
annual award credit.  This annual award credit shall equal the sum of
(A) and (B) where (A) is the product of (I) and (II), where (I) is the Short
Term Incentive Award, if any, for 1997 and (II) is two times the pay factor for
the Participant as set forth in Section 4.04(c)(v) of the Pension Plan, based on
the Participant s attained age as of December 31, 1997, and (B) is the credit
based on the Participant s 1997 Deferred Salary, if any, determined pursuant to
the following (x), (xi) or (xii), as applicable, where for purposes of (x), (xi)
and (xii),  pay factor  means the pay factor as set forth in Section 4.04(c)(v)
of the Pension Plan based on the Participant s attained age as of December 31,
1997, and: 

(x)   

if
      the sum of the pay taken into account for such Participant under the
      Pension Plan and the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan (such
      sum constituting  1997 Considered Pay ) is equal to or greater than the
      Social Security Wage Base for 1997, the credit described in Section
      4.03(c)(i)(B) shall be equal to the Participant s 1997 Deferred Salary
      multiplied by two times the pay factor,
and 

(xi)   

if
      the sum of the Participant s 1997 Deferred Salary and 1997 Considered Pay
      (as defined in (x) above) is less than or equal to the Social Security
      Wage Base for 1997, the credit described in Section 4.03(c)(i)(B) shall be
      equal to the Participant s 1997 Deferred Salary multiplied by one times
      the pay factor, and 

(xii)   

if
      the 1997 Considered Pay, (as defined in (x) above), is less than the
      Social Security Wage Base for 1997, but the sum of the Participant s 1997
      Deferred Salary and 1997 Considered Pay is greater than such Social
      Security Wage Base, the credit described in Section 4.03(c)(i)(B) shall be
      equal to the sum of (I) and (II), where (I) is the 1997 Deferred Salary
      multiplied by one times the pay factor, and (II) is one times the pay
      factor multiplied by the excess over the 1997 Social Security Wage Base of
      the sum of 1997 Deferred Salary and 1997 Considered
  Pay. 

(ii)     Calendar
Year 1998 and Thereafter 

Except as
otherwise provided herein, effective as of December 31, 1998, and each December
31 thereafter, the Cash Balance Account of each individual who is a Cash Balance
Participant during the respective calendar year shall be credited with an annual
award credit. The Cash Balance Participant s annual award credit shall
equal  (A), plus, for Plan Years prior to 2005, (B), where (A) is the
product of (I) and (II), where (I) is the Short Term Incentive Award for the
respective calendar year (as determined pursuant to Section 2.40), and (II) is
two times the supplemental pay factor for the Participant as set forth in
Section 4.04(c)(v) of the Pension Plan, based on the Participant s attained age
as of December 31 of such calendar year, and (B) is the credit based on the
Participant s Deferred Salary, if any, for the calendar year determined pursuant
to the following (xiii), (xiv) or (xv), as applicable, where for purposes of
(x), (xi) and (xii),  pay factor  means the pay factor as set forth in Section
4.04(c)(v) of the Pension Plan based on the Cash Balance Participant s attained
age as of December 31 of such calendar year, and 

(xiii)   

if
      the sum of the pay taken into account for such Participant under the
      Pension Plan and the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan (such
      sum constituting  Considered Pay ) is equal to or greater than the Social
      Security Wage Base for the calendar year, the credit described in Section
      4.03(c)(ii)(B) shall be equal to the Participant s Deferred Salary
      multiplied by two times the pay factor,
and 

(xiv)   

if
      the sum of the Participant s Deferred Salary and Considered Pay (as
      defined in (xiii) above) is less than or equal to the Social Security Wage
      Base for the calendar year, the credit described in Section 4.03(c)(ii)(B)
      shall be equal to the Participant s  Deferred Salary multiplied
      by one times the pay factor, and 

(xv)   

if
      the Considered Pay, (as defined in (xiii) above), is less than the Social
      Security Wage Base for the calendar year, but the sum of the Participant s
      Deferred Salary  and Considered Pay is greater than such Social
      Security Wage Base, the credit described in Section 4.03(c)(ii)(B) shall
      be equal to the sum of (I) and (II), where (I) is the Deferred Salary
      multiplied by one times the pay factor, and (II) is one times the pay
      factor multiplied by the excess over such Social Security Wage Base of the
      sum of  the Participant s Deferred Salary and Considered
      Pay. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in any calendar year in which a Cash Balance Participant
terminates employment, any such annual award credit shall be based on his or her
attained age as of the end of the month in which the Participant terminates
employment and shall be credited to the Participant s Cash Balance Account as of
that date. 

(d)     Interest
Credits 

Beginning
in 1998, a Cash Balance Participant s Cash Balance Account shall be credited
with an interest credit based on the balance of his or her Cash Balance Account
as of the first day of the Plan Year.  Notwithstanding the provisions
of the immediately preceding sentence, no Interest Credits shall be made with
respect to the period after the last day of the month immediately preceding the
Participant s Pension Commencement Date. 

For the
Plan Year in which a Cash Balance Participant terminates employment, his or her
Cash Balance Account shall also be credited with an interest credit based on any
annual award credit for that Plan Year. 

Unless
the Participant commences his or her pension during the Plan Year, the interest
credit shall be made as of the last day of that Plan Year.  For the
Plan Year in which the Participant commences his or her pension, the interest
credit shall be made as of the last day of the month immediately preceding the
Participant s Pension Commencement Date. 

The
interest crediting rate shall be the same interest crediting rate in effect for
such period under the Pension Plan, and shall be credited at the same time and
in the same manner as interest credits are applied under the Pension
Plan. 

(e)     Cash
Balance Account Attributable to the Mid-Career Pension Benefit 

(i)           With
respect to an employee who is an Officer on or after January 1, 1998, effective
as of the later of January 1, 1998 or the first day of the month following the
transfer to this Plan of the liability for a Participant s annual benefit from
the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan, if any, as described in Section 4.07, a
Mid-Career Cash Balance Subaccount shall be established for such
Participant.  The initial credit to such Mid-Career Cash Balance
Subaccount shall be determined by multiplying the Cash Balance Participant s
Mid-Career Conversion Benefit (as defined below) by one hundred seven percent
(107%) of the applicable conversion factor set forth in Appendix C, based on the
Cash Balance Participant s attained age (in whole years) as of December 31,
1996.  The Cash Balance Participant s Mid-Career Conversion Benefit
under this Section 4.03(b) shall equal the monthly benefit (commencing at Normal
Retirement Age) transferred from the AT T Mid-Career Pension
Plan.  Such initial Mid-Career Cash Balance Subaccount shall be
credited with interest credits as follows: 

(A) 

with
      respect to the Mid-Career Cash Balance Subaccount for a Participant who is
      Officer on January 1, 1998, interest credits, beginning in 1998,
      determined in the manner described in Section
  4.03(d); 

(B) 

with
      respect to the Mid-Career Cash Balance Subaccount for a Participant who is
      not an Officer on January 1, 1998, interest credits determined as
      follows: 

(I)            

an
      initial interest credit effective as of the date the Mid-Career Cash
      Balance Subaccount is established, equal to the interest that would have
      been credited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03(d) for the
      period beginning January 1, 1998 to the date such Subaccount is
      established; and 

(II)       

interest
      credits determined in the manner described in Section 4.03(d), effective
      for periods following the establishment of such
  Subaccount. 

(ii)           A
benefit attributable to the Mid-Career Cash Balance Subaccount, if any, shall be
payable only if the Participant has completed a Term of Employment of at least
five years classified by the Company as full-time, for one or more Participating
Companies, at E-band or above, prior to the Normal Retirement Date. For purposes
of determining whether the Participant has completed a Term of Employment of at
least five years, the provisions of the Pension Plan providing exceptions to
what is considered a break in the continuity of service shall not
apply.  Except as otherwise provided under the terms of the Plan, if
the Participant becomes eligible to receive a benefit based on the Mid-Career
Cash Balance Subaccount, the Mid-Career Cash Balance Subaccount shall be added
to the Participant s Cash Balance Account determined pursuant to Section 4.03(b)
through (d). 

(f)     Benefit
Based on the Cash Balance Account 

A Cash
Balance Participant s Benefit Based on the Cash Balance Account shall be a
monthly benefit determined in the manner described in the Pension Plan, taking
into account the Participant s Cash Balance Account as of the date such benefit
is being determined. 

Section
4.04E    Automatic Survivor Annuities 

The
Automatic Survivor Annuity described in this Section 4.04 does not apply to a
benefit determined under the cash balance formula of Section 4.03 or 4.11, or to
a benefit based on the Mid-Career Pension Benefit of Section
4.07.  For purposes of this Section 4.04, an Officer who is not
Service Pension Eligible at the time of his or her termination of service with a
Participating Company shall not be considered a retired Officer, unless such
Officer was eligible for a Disability Benefit at the time of his or her
termination of service. 

(a)     Before-Retirement 

The
surviving Spouse shall be entitled to a pre-retirement Automatic Survivor
Annuity determined pursuant to this Section 4.04(a) effective commencing as of
the first day of the month following the death of a Participant who dies while
an employee if such Participant  has a Term of Employment of at least
fifteen years at the time of death, or,  if such Participant meets the
age and Term of Employment requirements for a Service Benefit (or is Service
Pension Eligible) at the time of his or her death. The pre-retirement Automatic
Survivor Annuity shall be payable monthly in an amount equal to forty five
percent (forty six percent effective for benefits commencing on or after July 1,
1998) of the monthly benefit that would have been payable to the Participant
pursuant to Section 4.02 had such Participant terminated employment with a
Service Benefit, regardless of his or her actual eligibility therefore, on the
date of his or her death.  For purposes of determining the Automatic
Survivor Annuity provided in this Section 4.04(a), the early retirement
discounts in Sections 4.02(a), 4.02(b), 4.02(d) or 4.02(e) shall not
apply.  With respect to a Participant whose benefit is determined
pursuant to Section 4.01(d)(ii)(B), the Automatic Survivor Annuity shall not
include the portion, if any, of the Participant s benefit attributable to the
Participant s transferred Mid-Career Pension Benefit described in Section
4.07. 

(b)     Post-Retirement 

(i)           Subject
to the provisions of Section 4.04(b)(ii), upon the death of an Officer receiving
(or eligible to receive) a Service or Disability Benefit under this Plan who
retired on or after December 31, 1986 (or retired prior to that date but had not
reached age fifty-five on or before December 31, 1983), a survivor annuity in
the amount of forty five percent  (forty six percent effective for
benefits commencing on or after July 1, 1998) of such retired Officer s monthly
benefit amount will be payable beginning on the first day of the month following
the date of his or her death to the surviving Spouse to whom  such
retired Officer is married at the time of death.  If the Officer had
not yet commenced distribution of his or her benefit, the benefit will be
reduced for early commencement, as if the Officer s Pension Commencement Date
were the date payments to the surviving Spouse commence. For purposes of
determining the monthly benefit payable to the surviving Spouse pursuant to this
Section 4.04(b), the Officer s Service or Disability Benefit determined pursuant
to Section 4.02 is based on the amount that would be paid in the form of a
single life annuity, and is not reduced to reflect any optional form of payment.
With respect to a Participant whose benefit is determined pursuant to Section
4.01(d)(ii)(B), the Automatic Survivor Annuity shall not include the portion, if
any, of the Service or Disability Benefit attributable to the Participant s
transferred Mid-Career Pension Benefit described in Section 4.07. 

(ii)           In
the case of an Officer who terminates employment on or after August 1, 1997, no
benefit shall be payable pursuant to Section 4.04(b)(i) unless (A) the Officer s
benefit under the Pension Plan is larger under a  pay base  formula of the
Pension Plan than under the cash balance formula of such plan, (B) the benefit
determined under Section 4.02(a), 4.02(b), 4.02(d) or 4.02(e), as applicable, is
greater than the benefit determined under Section 4.03 of this Plan, and (C) the
Officer elected to receive his or her Pension Plan benefit in the form of a
single life annuity or a 50% joint and survivor annuity.   For
purposes of making the determination under (A) and (B) of this Section
4.04(b)(ii), any applicable reduction for commencement prior to age 65 is taken
into account, and any amounts attributable to the Mid-Career Pension Benefit,
whether pursuant to Section 4.03(e) or Section 4.07, shall be
disregarded.  If pursuant to the immediately preceding provisions of
this Section 4.04(b)(ii) the provisions of Section 4.04(b)(i) do not apply with
respect to such Participant, the benefits, if any, payable following the death
of a Participant after his or her Pension Commencement Date shall be determined
solely in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09(a)(iv). 

Section
4.05E    Special Increases 

Monthly
pension payments being made under the Plan to a terminated Participant or the
surviving Spouse of a terminated Participant shall be increased by the same
percentage and pursuant to the same terms and conditions, as are set forth for
comparable payments to similarly situated individuals, from time to time, under
the Pension Plan. 

Section
4.06E   Monthly Payments 

The
annual benefit determined under Section 4.02 shall be divided by twelve to
determine a monthly benefit amount.  All annuity benefits under the
Plan shall be payable monthly or at such other periods as the Committee or the
Administrator, as applicable, may determine in each case; a benefit payable
other than monthly shall be adjusted to reflect the period covered by such
payment. 

Section
4.07E    Mid-Career Pension Benefit 

(a)     Transfer
of Mid-Career Pension Benefit 

Effective
January 1, 1998, for an Officer who is a Participant as of January 1, 1998, the
liability for the monthly benefit from the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan, if
any, shall be transferred to this Plan, and the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan
shall retain no further obligation with respect to such
benefit.   With respect to an employee who becomes an Officer
after January 1, 1998, the liability for the annual benefit from the AT T
Mid-Career Pension Plan, if any, shall be transferred to this Plan effective
upon his or her designation as an Officer, and the AT T Mid-Career Pension
Plan shall retain no further obligation with respect to such benefit. Solely for
purposes of determining the benefit transferred to this Plan, it shall be
assumed that the Participant had completed a Term of Employment of at least five
years classified by the Company as full-time, for one or more Participating
Companies, at E-band or above prior to December 31, 1997, and had terminated
employment as of December 31, 1997. 

(b)     Eligibility
for Payment of Mid-Career Pension Benefit 

Following
the transfer of the AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan benefit to this Plan, such
transferred benefit shall be paid from this Plan, in the manner described in
Section 4.07(c), provided that such Participant has completed a Term of
Employment of at least five years classified by the Company as full-time, for
one or more Participating Companies, at E-band or above, prior to the last day
of the month in which he or she reaches Normal Retirement Age. For purposes of
determining whether the Participant has completed a Term of Employment of at
least five years, the provisions of the Pension Plan providing exceptions to
what is considered a break in the continuity of service shall not
apply.  Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Section 4.07,
if a benefit paid under this Plan is paid pursuant to the Cash Balance Formula
of Section 4.03, no additional benefit shall be paid pursuant to this Section
4.07, because such transferred benefit is already included in the determination
of benefit amounts under Section 4.03. 

(c)     Manner
of Payment of Mid-Career Pension Benefit 

The
transferred Mid-Career Pension Benefit is included in the benefit determined
pursuant to Section 4.01(d)(ii)(A) or Section 4.01(d)(ii)(B), as
applicable.  A Mid-Career Pension Benefit payable pursuant to Section
4.01(d)(ii)(A) is included in the  Benefit Based on the Cash Balance Account 
described in Section 4.03(f), through the operation of Section
4.03(e)(ii).  If a Participant s benefit is payable pursuant to
Section 4.01(d)(ii)(B) and commences prior to January 1, 2009, the portion of
such benefit attributable to the Mid-Career Pension Benefit shall be paid only
in the form of a single life annuity, and if such benefit commences prior to
Normal Retirement Date shall be reduced in accordance with the terms of the
AT T Mid-Career Pension Plan as in effect on December 31, 1997, and shall
not be included in determining the Automatic Survivor Annuity of Section 4.04
(a) or Section 4.04(b). In addition to the provisions of this Section 4.07(c),
distribution of the Mid-Career Pension Benefit shall be subject to the
provisions of Section 4.09. 

Section
4.08E     Treatment During Subsequent
Employment 

When a
Participant s Term of Employment includes service with more than one
Participating Company, the last Participating Company to employ him or her
immediately prior to his or her termination of employment, with entitlement to a
benefit hereunder, shall be responsible for the full benefit under this Plan. If
a Participant s benefit payments under the Pension Plan are suspended under the
terms of the Pension Plan, because of his or her employment or reemployment
subsequent to termination of employment, any benefit payment he or she is
entitled to under this Plan shall be permanently suspended for the period of
such employment or reemployment to the same extent and in the same manner,
consistent with the terms and conditions applicable to the suspension of benefit
payments under the Pension Plan, provided, however, that payments to which an
Officer is entitled under an annuity contract purchased on his or her behalf
shall not be suspended for the period of such employment or
reemployment.  Payment of a Participant s benefit under this Plan
shall resume simultaneously with the recommencement of his or her benefits under
the Pension Plan. Following recommencement of benefit payments under this Plan,
the Participant (or surviving Spouse) shall not be eligible to receive any
payments under this Plan that would otherwise have been payable but for the
suspension. 

Notwithstanding
the preceding, effective beginning January 1, 2005, benefits shall not be
suspended during a period of employment or reemployment. Benefits paid upon a
subsequent termination of employment shall be reduced by the actuarial
equivalent of the benefit payments that were continued during
reemployment. 

Section
4.09E    Payment of Pensions 

(a)     Commencement
Prior to 2005 

(i)
Subject to the exception set forth in paragraph (ii) of this Section 4.09(a),
(regarding the Alternate Minimum Formula), benefits payable to the Participant
under this Plan shall commence on the date the benefits under the Pension Plan
are first paid to the Participant, and shall, except for the reasons specified
in Section 3.02(a)(iv), Section 4.08 or Section 9.12, continue to the death of
the recipient.  Benefits payable to the surviving Spouse or the estate
of the Participant shall commence and be paid as indicated in the applicable
provision of this Plan. 

(ii) Any
benefit payable to an Officer pursuant to Section 4.02(c) shall not commence
before age sixty-five, except that an Officer who has been employed for at least
five years as an Officer as of December 31, 1993, and as to whom the sum of his
or her attained age and Term of Employment equaled or exceeded seventy as of
that date, shall be eligible to commence his or her benefit as of the first day
of the month following his or her termination of employment and shall, except
for the reasons specified in Section 4.09(a)(i), continue to his or her
death. 

(iii)
For a Participant who terminated employment prior to August 1, 1997, the benefit
under this Plan shall be payable in the form of a single life
annuity.  Any post-retirement survivor benefits, with respect to such
a Participant, shall be determined solely in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.04(b). 

(iv) This
Section 4.09(a)(iv) applies only to a Participant who terminates employment on
or after August 1, 1997, and who is not described in Section
4.09(a)(v). 

(A)   If
the Participant elects the cash payment option under the Pension Plan, with no
remaining annuity payable from the Pension Plan, or a lump sum, if applicable,
the benefit under this Plan shall be paid in the form of a single life
annuity.  For purposes of this subparagraph (A), an annuity payable
under the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan is not considered to be
an annuity payable from the Pension Plan. 

(B)  If
the Participant elected the cash payment option under the Pension Plan, with an
annuity remaining under the Pension Plan, the benefit under this Plan shall be
paid in the same form as the remaining annuity under the Pension Plan is
paid. 

(C)  The
form of payment under this Plan shall be the same form of payment, as elected by
the Participant under the Pension Plan, unless the benefit under the Pension
Plan is the cash payment option or a lump sum, if applicable, (in which case the
form of payment under this Plan shall be determined pursuant to the immediately
preceding subparagraphs (A) or (B)).  If the form of payment under the
Pension Plan includes a joint and survivor form of payment with the survivor
benefit payable to an alternate payee, the benefit to the Participant under this
Plan shall be (i) paid as a single life annuity, if the Participant is not
married on the Pension Commencement Date, or (ii) paid in the joint and survivor
form of payment elected by the Participant under the Pension Plan, with the
survivor benefit under this Plan payable to the Spouse to whom the Participant
is married at the Pension Commencement Date, if the Participant is married on
the Pension Commencement Date. 

(D)  The
single life annuity benefit otherwise payable under this Plan to a Participant
will be reduced as follows to reflect the form of payment: (1) the benefit under
this Plan based on the Cash Balance Account shall be reduced by 8% (10% for a
Pension Commencement Date prior to July 1, 1999) if payment is made in the form
of a 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity, and by 15% (18% for a Pension Commencement
Date prior to July 1, 1999) if payment is made in the form of a 100% Joint and
Survivor Annuity; (2) the benefit under this Plan which is not based on the Cash
Balance Account, with respect to a Participant who is not Service Pension
Eligible on termination of employment, shall be reduced by 12% if the benefit is
to be paid under the 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity form of payment; and (3) in
the case of a Participant whose benefit under the Plan is based on a formula
other than the Cash Balance Account, a benefit payable in the form of a 100%
Joint and Survivor Annuity shall be reduced for commencement prior to Normal
Retirement Date by applying the early commencement factors applicable to the
cash balance formula, as described in the Pension Plan, and shall be reduced for
the 100% Joint and Survivor Annuity form of payment by 15% (18% for a Pension
Commencement Date prior to July 1, 1999). 

(E)  Notwithstanding
the preceding (A) through (D), the benefit payable under this Plan that is
attributable to the Mid-Career Pension Benefit and paid pursuant to Section
4.01(d)(ii)(B) shall be paid only in the form of a single life
only. 

(v) The
benefit under this Plan with respect to an Officer who is Service Pension
Eligible at his or her termination of employment on or after August 1, 1997, and
who meets the requirements set forth in Section 4.04(b)(ii), shall be paid in
the form of a single life annuity, and any post-retirement survivor benefit will
be determined pursuant to Section 4.04(b)(ii).  In lieu of the benefit
payable pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, such Officer may instead
elect distribution of his benefit in the form of a 100% Joint and Survivor
Annuity, with reduction for commencement prior to Normal Retirement Date and for
the 100% Joint and Survivor Annuity form of payment determined as described in
the preceding subsection 4.09(a)(iv)(D)(3). 

(b)     Commencement
After 2004 and Prior to 2009 

Except as
provided in Section 6.01 regarding payments in the form of a commercial annuity
contract, the provisions of Section 4.09(a) regarding the time and form of
payment of benefits under the Plan shall apply with respect to benefits for
which distribution to a Participant commenced, or with respect to benefits
payable on behalf of a Participant whose death occurred, after 2004 and prior to
2009. The provisions of Section 4.09(a) relating to commencement of the benefit
under the Pension Plan shall refer to commencement of the Participant s regular
pension under the Pension Plan (and not to commencement of any benefit under the
Pension Plan based on the Special CIC Credit or the Force Management Pension
Credit). 

(c)     Commencement
After 2008 

Provisions
related to payment of benefits to the Participant that commence after December
31, 2008 or with respect to a Participant who is an employee on December 31,
2008 and whose death occurs after December 31, 2008 are not included in Appendix
E.  Such payments shall be made in the time and form as described in
Section 4.09(c) of Article 4 as in effect after December 31, 2008 as set forth
in the main text of the Plan. 

(d)     Payments
to Specified Employees 

Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding sections 4.09(a) through 4.09(c), effective on
and after January 1, 2005 with respect to payments in the form of a commercial
annuity pursuant to Section 6.01 and effective on and after January 1, 2009 with
respect to all other payments under the Plan, payment under the Plan to or with
respect to a Participant who is determined to meet the definition of Specified
Employee shall be payable as otherwise provided in this Plan, except that the
initial payment shall be made no earlier than six (6) months following his or
her Termination of Employment.  If, absent this Section 4.09(d),
payment to a Specified Employee would have commenced before the expiration of
such six-month period, the first payment with respect to such Specified Employee
will include the sum of the annuity payments withheld, together with interest
thereon.    For purposes of the immediately preceding
sentence, interest shall be credited using the GAAP Rate in effect as of the end
of the calendar year immediately preceding the Participant s Termination of
Employment, for distributions made after December 31, 2007.   GAAP
Rate  means such rate as defined under the SERP for the referenced period.
Notwithstanding the preceding, for distributions made prior to January 1, 2008,
interest credited for purposes of this Section 4.4(d) shall be at an effective
annual rate equal to 120 percent of the Federal Mid-term rate in effect as of
the date such annuity payments otherwise would have commenced. 

Section
4.10E    Preretirement Survivor Benefits for Cash Balance
Participants 

(a)     Preretirement
Death Benefit 

(i)  If
a Cash Balance Participant who is vested under the Pension Plan dies before the
date as of which his or her benefit commences under this Plan, and he or she has
a surviving Spouse at the time of death, a single life annuity determined
pursuant to Section 4.10(b), shall be payable to the surviving Spouse commencing
on the first day of any month following the death of the Participant, (A) with
respect to a Participant who terminated employment prior to January 1, 2005, or
(B) with respect to a Participant who terminated employment after December 31,
2004 and dies before December 1, 2008, but only to the extent that such
surviving Spouse otherwise satisfies the requirements of the Plan with respect
to receipt of such a benefit.  Payment shall commence at the same time
as payment to a surviving Spouse commences under the Pension Plan. For purposes
of this Section 4.10(a), the surviving Spouse shall be the Spouse to whom the
Participant is married on the date of the Participant s death and who has
survived the Cash Balance Participant to at least the next calendar day after
the Cash Balance Participant s death.   If the Cash Balance
Participant is unmarried at the date of his or her death, or if the surviving
Spouse does not survive the Participant to at least the next calendar day after
the Participant s death, the Participant s Cash Balance Account shall be payable
to the estate of the Participant.  No death benefit is payable with
respect to a Participant who terminated employment after December 31, 2004 who
dies after December 1, 2008, except as described in Section 4.09(c)(ii) of
Article 4 of the main text of the Plan effective after December 31, 2008 (such
provisions which are not included in this Appendix E), 

(ii)  If
a Participant dies before the date as of which his or her benefit commences
under this Plan, and he or she does not have a surviving Spouse at the time of
his or her death, or if such surviving Spouse is not eligible for a benefit
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.10(a)(i), a lump sum benefit shall be
payable to the surviving Spouse of the Participant, or, if there is no surviving
Spouse, to the Participant s estate, within a reasonable period of time
following the death of the Participant.  The amount of such single
cash payment shall be equal to the Participant s Cash Balance
Account. 

(iii) If
a Participant dies before the date as of which his or her benefit commences
under this Plan and he or she is survived by a surviving Spouse who is entitled
to a benefit pursuant to the preceding Section 4.10(a)(i) or Section
4.10(a)(ii), and such surviving Spouse dies prior to the date payment of
benefits under this Plan commence, a lump sum benefit shall be payable to the
estate of the surviving Spouse upon the death of the surviving Spouse. The
amount of such single cash payment shall be equal to the Participant s Cash
Balance Account. 

(b)     Single
Life Annuity 

A
surviving Spouse s single life annuity shall equal the Cash Balance
Participant s Benefit Based on the Cash Balance Account under Section 4.03(f),
but substituting the surviving Spouse s attained age, for the age of the
Participant when applying the procedures of the Pension Plan for purposes of
such determination. 

If the
Cash Balance Participant would have been eligible for a benefit determined
pursuant to Section 4.02 had he or she terminated employment on the day
preceding the date of death, the surviving Spouse s single life annuity will be
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.04(a), if that
provision produces a higher benefit (determined as of the Spouse s Pension
Commencement Date) for the surviving Spouse than the benefit determined under
this Section 4.10(b). 

Section
4.11E    Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance
Account 

The provisions of this Section 4.03E
describe the establishment and development of the Qualified Deferrals Cash
Balance Account with respect to benefits that commence under the Qualified
Deferrals Cash Balance Account Formula prior to January 1, 2009. Except as
modified by the provisions of Article 4 of the main text of the Plan, the
methodology set forth in this Section 4.11E also applies for purposes of
determining a Benefit Based on the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account with
respect to benefits that commence after December 1, 2008. 

(a)     Establishment
of Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Accounts 

A
Deferral Participant s Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account is a
hypothetical bookkeeping account used solely in calculating the amount of the
Deferral Participant s Benefit Based on the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance
Account. The Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account is calculated by
accumulating the annual qualified deferral credits determined pursuant to
Section 4.11(b), and deferral interest credits determined pursuant to Section
4.11(c). 

A
Participant s Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account shall be established as
of the date the Deferral Participant begins to make Qualified Deferrals under
the AT T Executive Deferred Compensation Plan or the AT T Inc. Cash
Deferral Plan. 

(b)     Annual
Qualified Deferral Credits 

Effective
as of each December 31 following the date an individual becomes a Deferral
Participant, the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account of such individual
shall be credited with an annual qualified deferral credit. The Deferral
Participant s annual qualified deferral credit shall equal the credit based on
the participant s Qualified Deferral, if any, for the calendar year determined
pursuant to the following (xvi), (xvii) or (xviii), as applicable, where for
purposes of (xvi), (xvii) and (xviii),  pay factor  means the pay factor as set
forth in Section 4.04(c)(v) of the Pension Plan based on the Participant s
attained age as of December 31 of such calendar year, and 

(xvi)   

if
      the sum of the pay taken into account for such Participant under the
      Pension Plan and the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan (such
      sum constituting  Considered Pay ) is equal to or greater than the Social
      Security Wage Base for the calendar year, the annual qualified deferral
      credit shall be equal to the Qualified Deferral multiplied by two times
      the pay factor, and 

(xvii)   

if
      the sum of the participant s Qualified Deferral and Considered Pay (as
      defined in (xvi) above) is less than or equal to the Social Security Wage
      Base for the calendar year, the annual qualified deferral credit shall be
      equal to the participant s  Qualified Deferrals multiplied by
      one times the pay factor, and 

(xviii)   

if
      the Considered Pay, (as defined in (xvi) above), is less than the Social
      Security Wage Base for the calendar year, but the sum of the participant s
      Qualified Deferrals and Considered Pay is greater than such Social
      Security Wage Base, the annual qualified deferral credit shall be equal to
      the sum of (I) and (II), where (I) is the Qualified Deferrals multiplied
      by one times the pay factor, and (II) is one times the pay factor
      multiplied by the excess over such Social Security Wage Base of the sum
      of  the participant s Qualified Deferrals and Considered
      Pay. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in any calendar year in which a Deferral Participant terminates
employment, any such annual qualified deferral credit shall be based on his or
her attained age as of the end of the month in which the participant terminates
employment and shall be credited to the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account
as of that date. 

Annual
Qualified Deferral Credits were discontinued under the Plan effective with
respect to amounts deferred from any paycheck dated after December 31,
2007. 

(c)     CIC
Subaccount 

A
Deferral Participant who is a CIC Eligible Employee shall have a  CIC credit 
credited to his or her CIC Subaccount as of the date of such termination of
employment that allows the Deferral Participant to be considered a CIC Eligible
Employee.  The CIC credit shall be an amount equal to the sum of (i)
and (ii) as follows: 

(i)   

The
      CIC Eligible Employee s Qualified Deferral for the calendar year
      immediately preceding the calendar year in which the  change in control 
      (as such term is defined in the Pension Plan) occurs, multiplied by the
      lesser of (A) five percent for each whole year of the CIC Eligible
      Employee s Term of Employment as of the last day of the month in which the
      change in control occurs, or (B) one hundred
  percent; 

(ii)   

An
      interest credit on the amount determined in (i) above from the first of
      the month following the month in which the change in control occurs
      through the last day of the month in which such termination of employment
      occurs, based on the effective annual rates set forth in Section 4.10(d),
      as in effect for the period beginning on the first of the month following
      the month in which the change in control occurs through the month in which
      such termination of employment described in this Section 4.10(c)
      occurs. 

The CIC
Subaccount shall be credited with interest credits in the manner described in
the following Section 4.11(d). The benefit amount, method of payment, and
pre-retirement survivor benefit, if any, attributable to the CIC Subaccount
shall be determined in the manner described with respect to the  CIC Credit 
under the Pension Plan. The benefit provisions of this Section 4.11(c) shall be
subject to the provisions of Section 9.18.    For purposes
of any joint and survivor annuity benefit, the surviving Spouse is the Spouse to
whom the Participant was married on his or her Pension Commencement
Date. 

In order to fulfill the intent of the
CIC resolutions as adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company in October,
2000, prior to the adoption of the AT T Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan, solely for the purpose of determining severance payments with respect to a
CIC Eligible Employee under an  applicable severance plan  as that term is
defined in Section G.07(j) of the Pension Plan, the benefit attributable to the
CIC Subaccount with respect to a Deferral Participant shall be treated as paid
from the Pension Plan. 

(d)     Deferral
Interest Credits 

Effective
as of each December 31 following the date an individual becomes a Deferral
Participant, the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account of such individual
shall be credited with an interest credit based on the balance of his or her
Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account as of the first day of the Plan
Year.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately preceding
sentence, no Interest Credits shall be made with respect to the period after the
last day of the month immediately preceding the participant s Pension
Commencement Date. 

For the
Plan Year in which a Deferral Participant terminates employment, his or her
Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account shall also be credited with an interest
credit based on any annual qualified deferral credit for that Plan
Year. 

Unless
the Participant commences his or her pension during the Plan Year, the interest
credit shall be made as of the last day of that Plan Year.  For the
Plan Year in which the Deferral Participant commences his or her pension, the
interest credit shall be made as of the last day of the month immediately
preceding the participant s Pension Commencement Date. 

The
interest crediting rate shall be the same interest crediting rate in effect for
such period under the Pension Plan, and shall be credited at the same time and
in the same manner as interest credits are applied under the Pension
Plan. 

(e)     Benefit
Based on the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account 

A
Deferral Participant s Benefit Based on the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance
Account shall be a monthly benefit determined in the manner described in the
Pension Plan, taking into account the participant s Qualified Deferrals Cash
Balance Account as of the date such benefit is being determined, and multiplied
by twelve to produce an annual benefit.  Notwithstanding the
preceding, the Benefit Based on the Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account
shall not exceed (I) the benefit that would have been payable under the Pension
Plan, determined before application of the limitations of Code Section
401(a)(17) and Code Section 415, if eligible pay under the Pension Plan for a
Plan Year included the Qualified Deferrals for such Plan Year, minus (II) the
benefit actually payable under the Pension Plan plus the benefit actually
payable under the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, where (I) and
(II) are determined as of the Participant s Pension Commencement Date, and the
form of payment elected by the participant.  The Benefit Based on the
Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance Account shall be paid in the same form of
payment elected by the Participant under the Pension
Plan.  Notwithstanding the preceding, if the Participant elected the
cash payment option under the Pension Plan, the benefit under this Plan shall be
paid in the same form as the remaining annuity elected by the Participant under
the Pension Plan.  For purposes of any joint and survivor annuity
benefit, the surviving Spouse is the Spouse to whom the Participant was married
on his or her Pension Commencement Date. 

(f)     Preretirement
Death Benefit 

(i)  If
a Deferral Participant dies prior to his or her Pension Commencement Date and he
or she has a surviving Spouse at the time of death, a single life annuity
determined pursuant to the following Section 4.11(f)(iv), commencing on the
first day of any month following the death of the Participant, shall be payable
to the surviving Spouse if such Participant terminates employment after December
31, 2004 and dies before January 1, 2009, but only to the extent that such
surviving Spouse otherwise satisfies the requirements of the Plan with respect
to receipt of such a benefit. For purposes of this Section 4.11(f), a surviving
Spouse shall be the individual to whom the Participant is legally married on the
date of the Participant s death and who has survived the Participant to at least
the next calendar day after the Participant s death.  If the Deferral
Participant is unmarried at the date of his or her death, or if the surviving
Spouse does not survive the Participant to at least the next calendar day after
the Participant s death, the Participant s Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance
Account shall be payable to the estate of the Participant. 

(ii)  If
a Deferral Participant dies before the date as of which his or her benefit
commences under this Plan, and he or she does not have a surviving Spouse at the
time of his or her death, or if such surviving Spouse is not eligible for a
benefit pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.11(f)(i), a lump sum benefit
shall be payable to the surviving Spouse of the Participant, or, if there is no
surviving Spouse, to the Participant s estate, within a reasonable period of
time following the death of the Participant.  The amount of such
single cash payment shall be equal to the Participant s Qualified Deferrals Cash
Balance Account. 

(iii) If
a Deferral Participant dies before the date as of which his or her benefit
commences under this Plan and he or she is survived by a surviving Spouse who is
entitled to a benefit pursuant to the preceding Section 4.11(f)(i) or Section
4.11(f)(ii), and such surviving Spouse dies prior to the date payment of
benefits under this Plan commence, a lump sum benefit shall be payable to the
estate of the surviving Spouse within a reasonable period of time following the
death of the surviving Spouse. The amount of such single cash payment shall be
equal to the Participant s Qualified Deferrals Cash Balance
Account. 

(iv)  A
surviving Spouse s single life annuity payable pursuant to Section 4.11(f)(i)
shall equal the Participant s Benefit Based on the Qualified Deferrals Cash
Balance Account under Section 4.03(d), but substituting the surviving Spouse s
attained age, for the age of the Participant when applying the procedures of the
Pension Plan for purposes of such determination. 

</EX-10.GGG>

<EX-10.HHH>
 29
 ex10hhh.htm
 AT&T CORP EXCESS BENEFIT & COMP PLAN

ex10hhh.htm 

Exhibit
10-hhh 

AT T
EXCESS BENEFIT AND COMPENSATION PLAN 

AT T
Corp. 

      and 

      Such of
its Subsidiary Companies which are 

      Participating
Companies 

Effective
January 1, 1997, Including Amendments Adopted Through December 31,
2008 

Article
I. 

            Background
and Purpose 

-- 

AT T
EXCESS BENEFIT AND COMPENSATION PLAN 

Article 

         1. 

      Background
and Purpose 

The
AT T Excess Benefit Plan was established to provide eligible management and
occupational employees of AT T Corp. (formerly American Telephone and
Telegraph Company) and Participating Companies with certain benefits that would
have been payable under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T
Pension Plan, respectively, but for the limitations placed on benefits payable
under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan by
Section 415 of the Code. Effective January 1, 1989, AT T established an
additional plan to provide eligible management employees with certain benefits
that would have been payable under the AT T Management Pension Plan but for
the limitations placed on eligible compensation by Code Section 401(a)(17).
These plans were amended, the two separate plans combined into a single plan
document, and restated, effective January 1, 1994, and are referred to
collectively as the  AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan  or
 Plan.  

The Plan
is intended to constitute an unfunded  excess benefit plan  as defined in
Section 3(36) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended ( ERISA ), to the extent it provides benefits that would be paid under
the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan but for the
limitations imposed by Code Section 415, and an  unfunded plan primarily
for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of
management or highly compensated employees  for purposes of Title I of ERISA, to
the extent it provides other benefits. 

Except as
expressly provided below, this amended and restated plan document applies only
to employees who terminate employment on or after January 1, 1997. For former
employees who terminated employment before January 1, 1997, the provisions of
the AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan in effect on the date of the
former employee s termination of employment shall govern. 

During
the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008, the Plan has been operated
in good faith compliance with the provisions of Code Section 409A, Internal
Revenue Notice 2005-1, and the final Treasury Regulations for Code Section 409A,
and any other generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue
Service Bulletin with an effective date prior to January 1, 2009.  On
or after January 1, 2009, this Plan shall be interpreted and construed
consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A and all applicable
guidance issued thereunder with respect to all accrued benefits under this Plan,
including, except as indicated below, those benefits that may be otherwise
treated as existing prior to the statutory effective date of Code Section 409A
( grandfathered benefits ) within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section
1.409A-6(a)(3).  The preceding sentence notwithstanding, it is the
intention of the Company that the grandfathering provisions of Code Section 409A
be applied under this Plan with respect to any Participant (and any Surviving
Spouse, Beneficiary or Estate of such Participant) who terminated employment
prior to January 1, 2005, with respect to all benefits earned under the Plan
with respect to such Participant prior to termination of employment. If an
individual who terminated employment prior to January 1, 2005 is rehired after
December 31, 2004 and earns additional benefits under the Plan following his or
her rehire, the terms of the Plan shall be applied separately with respect to
benefits earned prior to January 1, 2005 and with respect to benefits earned
following rehire. The Company reserves the right to amend any provision of the
Plan or any election submitted by a Participant, or take any other action that
the Company deems appropriate to ensure compliance with Code Section 409A,
including altering the time and form of any distribution so as to accomplish the
intended purpose of this Plan. 
 
      Article 

         2. 

      Definitions  

Unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following terms have the meanings
described below when used in this Plan and references to a particular Article or
Section shall mean the Article or Section so delineated in this
Plan. 

AT T
Corp. shall be the  administrator  of the Plan as that term is defined in
ERISA.    Effective August 22, 2006, and until such time as
the Board determines and advises otherwise, the Senior Executive Vice President
  Human Resources of AT T Inc. (or the individual directly reporting to the
Chief Executive Officer of AT T Inc. who has responsibility for human
resource matters, regardless of such individual s title) is authorized to
administer, amend, merge and/or terminate the Plan, to appoint and remove
members of the administrative committees and claims administrators for the Plan,
and to allocate Plan administrative responsibilities to such committees or
administrators. 

AT T
Corp. (formerly the American Telephone and Telegraph Company), a New York
corporation, or its successor. 

AT T
Inc. (formerly SBC Communications Inc.), a Delaware Corporation, which acquired
AT T Corp. effective November 18, 2005 pursuant to that certain merger
agreement dated January 30, 2005. 

AT T and each other entity required
to be aggregated with AT T under Code    414(b), (c), (m), or
(o).  With respect to periods prior to November 18, 2005, the
controlled group shall be determined only with respect to entities required to
be aggregated with AT T Corp. With respect to periods on or after November
18, 2005, the controlled group shall be determined with respect to entities
required to be aggregated recognizing the acquisition of AT T Corp. by SBC
Communications Inc. (now known as AT T Inc.). 

Any
corporation of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock is owned directly
or indirectly by AT T Corp. 

2.6. 

AT T
      Management Pension Plan 

The
AT T Management Pension Plan, as amended and restated from time to time, and
effective January 1, 2007, the AT T Pension Benefit Plan   AT T Legacy
Management Program. 

The
AT T Pension Plan, as amended and restated from time to time. 

Any
person entitled to an Excess Death Benefit, if any, pursuant to Section
4.10. 

The
maximum benefit payable to a Participant under the Qualified Plan in accordance
with Code Section 415, but after application of the Compensation
Limitation, if any, under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T
Pension Plan. 

The Board
of Directors of AT T Corp. 

A change
in control, as that term is defined in the AT T Management Pension
Plan. 

A CIC
eligible employee, as that term is defined in the AT T Management Pension
Plan. 

The
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (and its
predecessor, the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended). Any reference to a
particular section of the Code includes any applicable regulations promulgated
under that section. 

The
benefit, if any, described in Section 4.3 that is payable to an Executive or a
Surviving Spouse of an Executive under the terms of the Plan. 

The
benefit, if any, described in Section 4.2 that is payable to a Participant or a
Surviving Spouse of a Participant under the terms of the Plan. 

The
Employees  Benefit Committee appointed by AT T Corp. to administer the Plan,
or any successor to such Employees  Benefit Committee. 

AT T
Corp. 

The
maximum amount of annual compensation under Code Section 401(a)(17) that
may be taken into account in any Plan Year for benefit accrual purposes under
the AT T Management Pension Plan, or that is taken into account in any Plan
Year under the AT T Management Pension Plan for purposes of calculating an
Accident Death Benefit (for periods prior to January 1, 1999), Sickness Death
Benefit or Pensioner Death Benefit under the AT T Management Pension
Plan. 

An
individual who is employed in a position eligible to participate in the AT T
Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan. An individual who is a
participant in the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan of AT T Inc.
( SERP ) on December 31, 2008 shall not be eligible to continue to accrue a
benefit under this Plan on or after such individual s SERP Vesting
Date.  An individual who becomes a participant in the SERP after
December 31, 2008 shall not be eligible to continue to accrue a benefit under
this Plan on or after such individual s SERP Effective Date (as defined in the
SERP).    

2.20.       ERISA 

The
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
Any reference to a particular section of ERISA includes any applicable
regulations promulgated under that section. 

The
benefit, if any, described in Section 4.10 of the Plan. 

The sum
of the Code Section 415 Excess Retirement Benefit, if any, and the Code Section
401(a)(17) Excess Retirement Benefit, if any, payable to a Participant or a
Surviving Spouse (or to the estate of the Participant or Surviving Spouse) under
the terms of the Plan. 

A
participant in the AT T Management Pension Plan who is considered to be
within  a select group of management or highly compensated employees  for
purposes of Title I of ERISA and whose  eligible pay,  as that term is defined
in the AT T Management Pension Plan (other than the AT T Management
Pension Plan provision limiting eligible pay to an amount under $150,000, as
adjusted), in any Plan Year exceeds the Compensation Limitation for that Plan
Year. Notwithstanding the preceding, for periods of participation in the
AT T Management Pension Plan prior to January 1, 1998, the term
 compensation,  as that term is defined in the AT T Management Pension Plan,
shall be substituted in the preceding sentence for the term  eligible
pay.  

Where a
person is absent from employment with AT T on a leave of absence, military
leave, or sick leave, where the leave is given in order to prevent a break in
the continuity of term of employment, and permission for such leave is granted
(and not revoked) in conformity with the rules of the employer that employs the
individual, as adopted from time to time, and the employee is reasonably
expected to return to service. Except as set forth below, the leave shall not
exceed six (6) months for purposes of this Plan, and the employee shall
Terminate Employment upon termination of such leave if the employee does not
return to work prior to or upon expiration of such six (6) month period, unless
the individual retains a right to reemployment under law or by contract. A
twenty-nine (29) month limitation shall apply in lieu of such six (6) month
limitation if the leave is due to the employee being  disabled  (within the
meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(4)). A Leave of Absence shall
not commence or shall be deemed to cease under the Plan where the employee has
incurred a Termination of Employment. 

The
Normal Retirement Date as determined under the AT T Management Pension Plan
or the AT T Pension Plan, as applicable. 

An
individual who is designated as an officer level employee for compensation
purposes on the records of AT T Inc. Notwithstanding the preceding, for
purposes of Section 7.1(b), relating to the purchase of a commercial annuity
contract, the term  Officer  shall mean an officer of AT T Corp., as defined
in the AT T Non-Qualified Pension Plan. 

An
individual and/or an Executive who has satisfied the eligibility requirements in
Section 3.1. 

AT T
Corp. and any AT T Corp. Subsidiary that is a participating company under
the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension
Plan.    Effective January 1, 2007, the term Participating
Company shall also include an AT T Company to the extent that an employee of
such AT T Company is eligible to participate in the AT T Management
Pension Plan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.15(c) of that
plan. 

This
AT T Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan. 

With
respect to individuals covered by the AT T Management Pension Plan, the
Pension Plan Administrator under the AT T Management Pension Plan and, with
respect to individuals covered by the AT T Pension Plan, the Pension Plan
Administrator under the AT T Pension Plan.  The Plan Administrator
has the authority to administer and adjudicate claims under the
Plan. 

The
AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan, whichever such
Plan holds the liability for the Participant s qualified accrued pension benefit
as of the date payment(s) under this Plan commence(s) or
recommence(s). 

Any
Participant who is a Key Employee (as defined in Code Section 416(i) without
regard to paragraph (5) thereof), as determined by AT T in accordance with
its uniform policy with respect to all arrangements subject to Code Section
409A, based upon the 12-month period ending on each December 31st (such 12-month
period is referred to below as the identification period). All Participants who
are determined to be Key Employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to
paragraph (5) thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Key
Employees for purposes of the Plan during the 12-month period that begins on the
first day of the 4th month following the close of such identification
period. 

The 2005
Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan of AT T Inc., as amended from time to
time. 

An
individual who has been designated as eligible to participate in the
SERP.  For purposes of this Plan, such individual is considered a SERP
Participant whether or not he or she has satisfied the vesting requirements of
the SERP. 

The later
of January 1, 2011 or the date an individual vests under the SERP. 

A
deceased Participant s surviving spouse of the opposite sex who is such
Participant s  spouse  within the meaning of the Qualified Plan, as defined in
the respective provisions of the Qualified Plan.  Notwithstanding the
preceding, if an alternate payee (as that term is defined in Section 414(p) of
the Code) is deemed the surviving spouse for purposes of all or a portion of the
Participant s benefit under the Qualified Plan, such alternate payee shall not
be deemed to be the  spouse  for any purpose under this Plan. 

The
ceasing of the Participant s employment from the AT T controlled group of
companies for any reason whatsoever, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.
References herein to Termination of Employment, Terminate Employment, or a
similar reference, shall mean the event where the employee has a separation from
service, as defined under Code Section 409A, with all members of the AT T
controlled group. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the employment relationship of
a Participant with the AT T controlled group is considered to remain intact
while the individual is on a Leave of Absence. 

The
Voluntary Retirement Incentive Program for Management Employees within the
meaning of the AT T Management Pension Plan. 

Article 

         3. 

      Eligibility 

(a)  Date of
Participation .   If the benefit payable under the
Qualified Plan to an Eligible Employee or a Surviving Spouse or Beneficiary of
an Eligible Employee is limited by reason of the application of the Benefit
Limitation or the Compensation Limitation, he or she shall be eligible to be a
Participant or receive benefits as a Surviving Spouse, as applicable, under this
Plan.  An Eligible Employee shall not become a Participant in this
Plan if he or she is subject to the Compensation Limitation, but not the Benefit
Limitation, under the AT T Pension Plan. 

(b)  Loss of
Eligibility .  In the event any Participant ceases to be an
Eligible Employee by reason of a change to an employment status which is not
eligible to participate in the Plan, such Participant shall nevertheless
continue to be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan, however, no
additional benefits shall accrue under the Plan unless and until he or she shall
re-attain eligibility hereunder. 

3.2. 

Surviving
      Spouse Benefit 

The
Surviving Spouse of a Participant shall be eligible to receive an Excess
Retirement Benefit under the Plan to the extent provided in Section 4.1 or
Section 4.5 of the Plan. 

3.3. 

Relationship
      To Other Plans 

The
Excess Retirement Benefit and Excess Death Benefit (as defined in Section 4.10)
payable under the Plan shall be in addition to any other benefits provided,
directly or indirectly, to a Participant, Surviving Spouse, Beneficiary, or the
estate of such Participant or Surviving Spouse, by any AT T Company.
Participation in the Plan shall not preclude or limit the participation of the
Participant in any other benefit plan sponsored by an AT T Company for which
such Participant would otherwise be eligible. Notwithstanding the preceding, the
Excess Retirement Benefit and Excess Death Benefit payable to a Participant,
Surviving Spouse, Beneficiary, or estate of a Participant or Surviving Spouse
under this Plan shall not duplicate benefits payable to such Participant,
Surviving Spouse, Beneficiary, or estate of such Participant or Surviving
Spouse, under any other plan or arrangement of an AT T Company. 

3.4. 

Forfeiture
      of Benefits 

If any
Participant who otherwise would be entitled to an Excess Retirement Benefit
under this Plan is discharged for cause due to conviction of a felony related to
his or her employment, the rights of such Participant to an Excess Retirement
Benefit under this Plan, including the rights of the Participant s Surviving
Spouse, Beneficiary and/or estate to any benefits related to such Participant
under the Plan, shall be forfeited. To the extent a benefit under any other
nonqualified plan of AT T is offset by benefits payable under this Plan,
such offset shall be determined as if a forfeiture had not
occurred. 

Article 

      4. 

      Retirement
and Death Benefits 

4.1 

Excess
      Retirement Benefits 

If the
retirement benefit payable to a Participant or a Surviving Spouse under the
AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan is limited by
reason of the application of the Benefit Limitation and/or, for an Executive or
Surviving Spouse of an Executive under the AT T Management Pension Plan is
limited in any year by reason of the application of the Compensation Limitation,
an Excess Retirement Benefit shall be paid as provided in this Article 4 to the
Participant or the Surviving Spouse, as applicable.  Notwithstanding
the immediately preceding sentence, effective for distributions commencing on or
after January 1, 2009, the provisions of Section 4.2 and Section 4.3 shall not
apply for purposes of determining the benefit payable following the death of a
Participant except with respect to a Participant who terminated employment prior
to January 1, 2005. In all other cases, the benefit payable following the death
of a Participant shall be determined pursuant to Section 4.5, or Section
4.4(c)(ii)(B). 

(a)           Subject
to the provisions of Section 4.2(c), Section 4.7 and Section 4.8, the amount, if
any, of the Code Section 415 Excess Retirement Benefit payable monthly to a
Participant or a Surviving Spouse pursuant to this Section 4.2 shall be equal to
the excess, if any, of (i) over (ii) at the date of benefit commencement or
recommencement, as applicable, where: 

"(i)" is
the amount of the monthly benefit which would be provided to the Participant or
the Surviving Spouse under the Qualified Plan as of such date, without regard to
the Benefit Limitation but taking into account the Compensation Limitation,
based on the age of the Participant (or Surviving Spouse, if applicable) as of
such date and the form of payment elected by the Participant or Surviving
Spouse, as applicable, under the Qualified Plan; and 

"(ii)" is
the amount of the monthly benefit actually payable to such Participant or
Surviving Spouse under the Qualified Plan as of such date, based on the age of
the Participant (or Surviving Spouse, if applicable) and the form of payment
elected by the Participant or Surviving Spouse, as applicable, under the
Qualified Plan. 

For
purposes of subparagraphs (i) and (ii), the Qualified Plan shall be the
Qualified Plan as in effect at the date of termination of employment, or death,
if earlier, provided, however, that if the Qualified Plan is subsequently
amended in a manner that affects the amount of benefit payable with respect to
such Participant or Surviving Spouse, the terms of the Qualified Plan, as
amended, shall, to the extent applicable, apply to such Participant or Surviving
Spouse. 

(b)           Except
as described in Section 4.2(c), the amount of the Code Section 415 Excess
Retirement Benefit payable as a result of the application of the Benefit
Limitation under the Qualified Plan pursuant to Section 4.2(a) shall be
determined or redetermined, including a decrease, (i) as of the date when
benefits are to commence pursuant to Section 4.4 or recommence pursuant to
Section 4.7 (including the date survivor annuitant benefits payable to a
Surviving Spouse commence following the death of a Participant who was receiving
a monthly benefit from the Qualified Plan at the time of his or her death); (ii)
as of the effective date of any subsequent increases and/or decreases in the
Benefit Limitation, to the extent such increase and/or decrease affects the
benefit payable to the Participant or Surviving Spouse under the Qualified Plan,
and/or (iii) as of the effective date of any special increases in the benefit
payable with respect to the Participant or Surviving Spouse, prior to
application of the Benefit Limitation, as a result of amendments to the AT T
Management Pension Plan and/or the AT T Pension Plan, whichever is
applicable.  Benefits under this Section 4.2 Plan shall also be
redetermined upon the occurrence of an event described in Section
4.6. 

(c)           The
provisions of Section 4.2(a) and Section 4.2(b) shall apply only (i) to benefits
payable with respect to a Participant who terminated employment prior to January
1, 2005, and (ii) to benefits payable with respect to a Participant who
terminated employment after December 31, 2004 if distribution commenced to
either the Participant or the Surviving Spouse on or before December 1, 2008.
Effective for distributions commencing after December 1, 2008, except with
respect to a Participant who terminated employment prior to January 1, 2005, the
Code Section 415 Excess Retirement Benefit shall be determined as of the later
of (i) November 30, 2008 or (ii) the date of the Participant s termination of
employment, determined as if benefits under the Qualified Plan commenced in the
form of a single life annuity as of such date, and shall not be subject to
redetermination pursuant to Section 4.2(b). Notwithstanding the preceding, (i)
with respect to a SERP Participant who is eligible to participate in the SERP on
December 31, 2008, the Code Section 415 Excess Retirement Benefit shall be
determined as of the earlier of termination of employment or the SERP Vesting
Date, and (ii) with respect to a SERP Participant who first becomes eligible to
participate in the SERP on or after January 1, 2009, the Code Section 415 Excess
Retirement Benefit shall be determined as of the earlier of termination of
employment or the Participant s SERP Effective Date (as defined in the SERP),
and with respect to any SERP Participant, shall not thereafter be subject to
redetermination pursuant to Section 4.2(b). 

(a)           Subject
to the provisions of Section 4.3(c), Section 4.7 and Section 4.8, the amount, if
any, of the Code Section 401(a)(17) Excess Retirement Benefit payable monthly to
a Participant or a Surviving Spouse pursuant to this Section 4.3 shall be equal
to the excess, if any, of (i) over (ii) at the date of benefit commencement or
recommencement, as applicable, where: 

"(i)" is
the amount of the monthly benefit which would be provided to the Participant or
the Surviving Spouse under the AT T Management Pension Plan as of such date,
without regard to the Compensation Limitation and Benefit Limitation, based on
the age of the Participant (or Surviving Spouse, if applicable) as of such date
and the form of payment elected by the Participant or Surviving Spouse, as
applicable, under the AT T Management Pension Plan; and 

"(ii)" is
the amount of the monthly benefit actually payable to such Participant or
Surviving Spouse under the AT T Management Pension Plan as of such date,
based on the age of the Participant (or Surviving Spouse, if applicable) and the
form of payment elected by the Participant or Surviving Spouse, as applicable,
under the AT T Management Pension Plan, taking into account the Compensation
Limitation, but prior to application of the Benefit Limitation. 

For
purposes of subparagraphs (i) and (ii), the determination of the benefits
payable under this Plan shall be made pursuant to the terms of the AT T
Management Pension Plan as in effect at the date of termination of employment,
or death, if earlier, provided, however, that if the AT T Management Pension
Plan is subsequently amended in a manner that affects the amount of benefit
payable with respect to such Participant or Surviving Spouse, the terms of the
AT T Management Pension Plan, as amended, shall, to the extent applicable,
apply to such Participant or Surviving Spouse. 

(b)           Except
as described in Section 4.3(c), the amount of the Code Section 401(a)(17) Excess
Retirement Benefit payable as a result of the application of the Compensation
Limitation under the AT T Management Pension Plan pursuant to Sections
4.3(a) shall be determined or redetermined, including a decrease, (a) as of the
date when benefits are to commence pursuant to Section 4.4 or recommence
pursuant to Section 4.7; (b) as of the effective date of any subsequent
increases and/or decreases in the Compensation Limitation, to the extent such
increase and/or decrease affects the benefit payable to the Participant or
Surviving Spouse under the AT T Management Pension Plan, and/or (c) as of
the effective date of any special increases in the benefit payable with respect
to the Participant or Surviving Spouse, prior to application of the Compensation
Limitation, as a result of amendments to the AT T Management Pension
Plan.  Benefits under this Section 4.3 Plan shall also be redetermined
upon the occurrence of an event described in Section 4.6. 

(c)           The
provisions of Section 4.3(a) and Section 4.3(b) shall apply only (i) to benefits
payable with respect to a Participant who terminated employment prior to January
1, 2005, and (ii) to benefits payable with respect to a Participant who
terminated employment after December 31, 2004 if distribution commenced to
either the Participant or the Surviving Spouse on or before December 1, 2008.
Effective for distributions commencing after December 1, 2008, except with
respect to a Participant who terminated employment prior to January 1, 2005, the
Code Section 401(a)(17) Excess Retirement Benefit shall be determined as of the
later of (i) November 30, 2008 or (ii) the date of the Participant s termination
of employment, determined as if benefits under the AT T Management Pension
Plan commenced in the form of a single life annuity as of such date, and shall
not be subject to redetermination pursuant to Section
4.3(b).  Notwithstanding the preceding, (i) with respect to a SERP
Participant who is eligible to participate in the SERP on December 31, 2008, the
Code Section 401(a)(17) Excess Retirement Benefit shall be determined as of the
earlier of termination of employment or the SERP Vesting Date, and (ii) with
respect to a SERP Participant who first becomes eligible to participate in the
SERP on or after January 1, 2009, the Code Section 401(a)(17) Excess Retirement
Benefit shall be determined as of the earlier of termination of employment or
the Participant s SERP Effective Date (as defined in the SERP), and with respect
to any SERP Participant, shall not thereafter be subject to redetermination
pursuant to Section 4.3(b). 

4.4. 

Time
      and Form of Benefits Payable to a Participant or Surviving
      Spouse 

(a)            For Benefits Commencing
Prior to 2005 .  The Excess Retirement Benefit provided under
the Plan payable to either the Participant or the Surviving Spouse, as
applicable, with respect to benefits commencing prior to the 2005 calendar year
shall be payable as follows: 

(1)   

With
      respect to a Participant whose Qualified Plan benefit is payable under the
      AT T Management Pension Plan and who terminates employment prior to
      January 1, 1998, and with respect to a Participant whose Qualified Plan
      benefit is payable under the AT T Pension Plan and who terminates
      employment prior to July 1, 1999, the Excess Retirement Benefit shall
      commence at the same time and shall be paid in the same benefit form as
      the Participant s or Surviving Spouse s benefits are paid under the
      AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan, whichever
      is applicable, provided, however, that the Committee shall have the right
      to approve the election of the form of the Excess Retirement Benefit
      payable to the Participant under this Plan;
and 

(2)   

With
      respect to a Participant whose Qualified Plan benefit is payable under the
      AT T Management Pension Plan and who terminates employment after
      December 31, 1997, the Excess Retirement Benefit shall commence at the
      same time and shall be paid in the same form of annuity in which all or a
      portion of the Participant s or Surviving Spouse s benefits under the
      AT T Management Pension Plan are paid, or if no annuity is payable
      from the AT T Management Pension Plan under the form of payment
      elected, shall be paid in the form of a single life annuity, unless the
      Committee, in its sole discretion, elects to pay the Excess Retirement
      Benefit in the form of a single lump sum payment;
  and 

(3)   

With
      respect to a Participant whose Qualified Plan benefit is payable under the
      AT T Pension Plan and who terminates employment after June 30, 1999,
      the Excess Retirement Benefit shall commence at the same time and shall be
      paid in the same form of annuity in which all or a portion of the
      Participant s or Surviving Spouse s benefits under the AT T Pension
      Plan benefits are paid, or if no annuity is elected under the AT T
      Pension Plan, shall be paid in the form of a single life annuity, unless
      the Committee, in its sole discretion, elects to pay the Excess Retirement
      Benefit in the form of a single lump sum
  payment. 

(b)            Benefits Commencing After
2004 and On or Before December 1, 2008 .  With respect to a
Participant whose Qualified Plan benefit commences after 2004, except as
provided in Section 7.1 regarding payments in the form of a commercial annuity
contract, the Excess Retirement Benefit shall commence at the same time and
shall be paid in the same form of annuity in which all or a portion of the
Participant s or Surviving Spouse s benefits under the Qualified Plan are paid,
or if no annuity is elected under the Qualified Plan, in the form of a single
life annuity. 

(c)            Benefits Commencing After
December 1, 2008 .  Payment of benefits with respect to a
Participant whose Qualified Plan benefit has not commenced on or before December
1, 2008 shall be made in the time and form as described in the following
subparagraphs (i) through (v), as applicable. For purposes of this subparagraph
(c), if  a Participant or Surviving Spouse is entitled to a benefit
based on a Force Management Pension credit and/or a CIC Credit under the
AT T Management Pension Plan in addition to the regular pension benefit, and
if such Participant or Surviving Spouse, as applicable, commenced distribution
of only a portion of the Qualified Plan benefit (and associated benefit under
this Plan) on or before December 1, 2008, then the provisions of subparagraphs
(i) through (v) shall be applied separately to the portion of the benefit for
which distribution has commenced, and that portion of the benefit for which
distribution has not commenced by such date. 

(i)  Participants Terminating
Prior to 2005 :  The provisions of Section 4.4(b) regarding the
time and form of payment of benefits under the Plan shall apply with respect to
benefits commencing after December 1, 2008 to or with respect to a Participant
who terminated employment prior to 2005.  If such an individual is
rehired into a position covered by this Plan after 2004, the terms of the Plan
shall apply separately to the benefit earned prior to 2005 and the benefit
earned after 2004. 

(ii)
 Participants
Terminating Employment after 2004 and Prior to December 1, 2008 : Subject
to the provisions of Section 4.4(d) and Section 7.1(c), benefits payable to or
with respect to a Participant who terminates employment after December 31, 2004
and  before December 1, 2008 shall be paid as follows: 

(A) if
distribution of benefits with respect to the Participant commences on or before
December 1, 2008, the time and form of payment of benefits under the Plan shall
be determined in the manner described in Section 4.4(b), or 

(B) if
distribution of benefits does not commence on or before December 1, 2008,
distribution shall be made to the Participant commencing on July 1, 2009 in the
form of a lump sum equal to the present value determined pursuant to Section
4.4(c)(vi); provided, however, if the amount so determined exceeds $50,000,
distribution shall be paid in monthly installments over a period of 120 months.
If the Participant dies prior to the commencement of such payment, distribution
equal to the present value of the amount that otherwise would have been payable
to the Participant shall be made on July 1, 2009 to the Surviving Spouse, or if
there is no Surviving Spouse, to the estate of the Participant.  If
the Surviving Spouse entitled to receive the benefit described in the preceding
sentence dies after the Participant but before distribution of such benefit, the
benefit shall be paid to the estate of the Surviving Spouse.  Survivor
benefits, if any, upon death following commencement of distribution to the
Participant shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of Section
4.5(d). 

(iii)
 Participants
Terminating Employment On or After December 1, 2008 Who Are Not SERP
Participants : Subject to the provisions of Section 4.4(c)(iv), Section
4.4(c)(v), and Section 4.4(d), benefits payable to a Participant who terminates
employment on or after December 1, 2008 shall be paid in the form of a lump sum
equal to the present value determined pursuant to Section 4.4(c)(vi), upon the
Participant s Termination of Employment; provided, however, if the amount so
determined exceeds $50,000, distribution shall be paid in monthly installments
over a period of 120 months. If the Participant dies before receiving a complete
distribution of the benefits so determined, survivor benefits, if any, shall be
paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.5. 

(iv)  SERP Participants on
December 31, 2008 : Subject to the provisions of Section 4.4(d), with
respect to a Participant who becomes eligible to participate in the SERP prior
to January 1, 2009, Excess Retirement Benefits shall be paid to such Participant
in accordance with the terms of an election made on or before December 31, 2008
with respect to benefits that may become payable to the Participant under the
SERP, and shall be effective for purposes of this Plan without regard to whether
such Participant becomes vested under the SERP. The amount payable from the Plan
shall be the actuarial equivalent of the single life annuity benefit determined
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.2(c) and Section 4.3(c), based on the
actuarial assumptions in effect under the SERP as of the date payments commence.
Survivor benefits, if any, following the death of the Participant shall be
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.5. 

(v)  Participants Terminating
Employment On or After December 1, 2008 Who Become SERP Participants After
December 31, 2008 : Subject to the provisions of Section 4.4(d), with
respect to a Participant who becomes eligible to participate in the SERP after
December 31, 2008, Excess Retirement Benefits shall be paid in the form of a
lump sum or in 120 monthly installments commencing upon Termination of
Employment; the applicable form of payment shall be determined on the
Participant s SERP Effective Date, based on the present value of the Excess
Retirement Benefit determined as if distribution of such benefit commenced on
the SERP Effective Date in the form of a single life annuity, and based on the
actuarial assumptions in effect under the SERP as of such date.  If
the present value determined as of the SERP Effective Date is $50,000 or less,
the form of payment shall be a lump sum, and if present value exceeds $50,000,
the form of payment shall be 120 monthly installments. The amount of the benefit
payable commencing at Termination of Employment shall be determined in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.4(c)(vi). If the Participant dies
before receiving a complete distribution of the benefits so determined, survivor
benefits, if any, shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section
4.5 

(vi)
 Determination of
Present Value : For purposes of Section 4.4(c)(ii)(B), Section 4.4(c)(iii)
and Section 4.4(c)(v), the present value shall be determined as
follows: 

(A)  Employee who is not a SERP
Participant:  with respect to a Participant who is not a SERP Participant,
equal to the present value of the single life annuity that would be payable
under the Plan commencing on the Participant s Normal Retirement
Date.  Such present value shall be determined on the basis of
actuarial assumptions under the Qualified Plan as of such date, calculated as
follows: the annual amount of the Excess Retirement Benefit shall be divided by
the early commencement factor as set forth in Appendix B of the Qualified Plan
for the Participant s age at Termination of Employment, and multiplied by the
factor for determining the lump sum value as set forth in Appendix B of the
Qualified Plan for the Participant s age at Termination of Employment.
Notwithstanding the preceding, for a Participant described in Section
4.4(c)(ii)(B), the present value shall be based on the Participant s age as of
December 1, 2008, and the amount so determined will be accumulated to July 1,
2009 at an effective annual interest rate of four percent. 

(B)  Employee who is a SERP
Participant:    with respect to a Participant who is a SERP
Participant, other than a SERP Participant described in Section 4.4(c)(iv), the
present value of the amount payable at Termination of Employment shall be
determined by multiplying the Excess Retirement Benefit determined pursuant to
Section 4.2(c) and Section 4.3(c) by an immediate annuity factor based on the
age of the Participant at Termination of Employment.  The immediate
annuity factor shall be based on the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as
in effect for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the
Participant s Termination of Employment and as defined in the SERP. 

For
purposes of Sections 4.4(c)(ii)(B), 4.4(c)(iii) and 4.4(c)(v) above, monthly
installments shall be calculated in the same manner that a financial institution
would calculate the monthly payments for a 10-year fixed interest loan. The
interest rate used in the calculations shall be equal to the Code Section 417(e)
interest rate in effect under the Qualified Plan on the date of the
Participant s Termination of Employment (except, with respect to distributions
made pursuant to Section 4.4(c)(ii)(B), such rate in effect for the 2008
calendar year). 

(d)            Payments to Specified
Employees.   Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding
sections 4.4(a) through 4.4(c), effective on and after January 1, 2005 with
respect to payments in the form of a commercial annuity pursuant to Section 7.1
and effective on and after January 1, 2009 with respect to all other payments
under the Plan, payment of the Excess Retirement Benefit under the Plan with
respect to a Participant who is eligible to participate in the SERP or who is
determined to meet the definition of Specified Employee shall be payable as
otherwise provided in this Plan, except that the initial payment shall be made
no earlier than the sixth month  anniversary of his or her Termination
of Employment.  If, absent this Section 4.4(d), payment to a Specified
Employee would have commenced before the expiration of such six-month period,
the first payment with respect to such Specified Employee will include the sum
of the payments withheld, together with interest thereon.  For
purposes of the immediately preceding sentence, interest shall be credited using
the GAAP Rate in effect as of the end of the calendar year immediately preceding
the Participant s Termination of Employment, for distributions made after
December 31, 2007.   GAAP Rate  means such rate as defined under the
SERP for the referenced period. Notwithstanding the preceding, for distributions
made prior to January 1, 2008, interest credited for purposes of this Section
4.4(d) shall be at an effective annual rate equal to 120 percent of the Federal
Mid-term rate in effect as of the date such annuity payments otherwise would
have commenced. 

4.5. 

Additional
      Provisions for Payment of Excess Retirement Benefit Following
      Death 

The
provisions of this Section 4.5 apply upon the death of a Participant if payment
of the Excess Retirement Benefit is determined pursuant to the provisions of
Section 4.4(c)(iii), Section 4.4(c)(iv) or Section 4.4(c)(v), and, for purposes
of Section 4.5(d), also to a Participant described in Section 4.4(c)(ii)(B). In
all other circumstances, benefits, if any, payable following the death of the
Participant, shall be determined as described elsewhere in this
Plan. 

(a)  Death prior to
commencement :  If a Participant described in Section
4.4(c)(iii), Section 4.4(c)(iv) or Section 4.4(c)(v) dies before Termination of
Employment, or following Termination of Employment but before the date as of
which his or her benefit commences under this Plan, the Excess Retirement
Benefit shall be payable in a lump sum to the Surviving Spouse, or if there is
no Surviving Spouse, to the Participant s estate, upon the death of the
Participant. The amount of such lump sum payment shall be determined pursuant to
the provisions of Section 4.5(c). 

(b)
 Death of Spouse before
payment of survivor benefit : If a Participant dies before the date as of
which his or her benefit commences under this Plan, and he or she is survived by
a Surviving Spouse entitled to payment of the Excess Retirement Benefit pursuant
to Section 4.5(a), and such Surviving Spouse dies prior to the date payment of
benefits under this Plan commence, a lump sum benefit shall be payable to the
estate of the Surviving Spouse upon the death of the Surviving Spouse. The
amount of such lump sum shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of
Section 4.5(c). 

(c)   Determination of lump sum
amount for death before commencement : 

(i)
Except with respect to a SERP Participant, the single cash payment payable
pursuant to Section 4.5(a) or Section 4.5(b) shall be equal to the difference
between (A) the Participant s  cash balance account  under the Qualified Plan as
of the date of death of the Participant or the Surviving Spouse, as applicable,
determined without regard to the Compensation Limitation or the Benefit
Limitation, and (B) the corresponding payment that would be payable under the
Qualified Plan as of the date of commencement of benefits under this
Plan.  No benefit is payable pursuant to Section 4.5(a) or Section
4.5(b) with respect to a Participant who does not have a cash balance account
under the Qualified Plan at the time of his or her death. 

(ii) The
single cash payment payable pursuant to Section 4.5(a) or Section 4.5(b) upon
the death of a Participant who is a SERP Participant, shall be determined by
multiplying the Excess Retirement Benefit determined pursuant to Section 4.2(c)
and Section 4.3(c) by an immediate annuity factor based on the age of the
Participant on the date of death.  The immediate annuity factor shall
be based on the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in effect for the
calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the Participant s
Termination of Employment and as defined in the SERP. 

(d)   Death following commencement
of distribution for a Participant who is not a SERP Participant on December 31,
2008 :  If the Participant dies following distribution of the
lump sum pursuant to Section 4.4(c)(ii)(B), Section 4.4(c)(iii) or Section
4.4(c)(v), no benefit shall be payable with respect to such Participant s Excess
Retirement Benefit following the death of the Participant. If the Participant is
receiving payment of the Excess Retirement Benefit in the form of installments
pursuant to Section 4.4(c)(ii)(B), Section 4.4(c)(iii) or Section 4.4(c)(v) and
dies prior to receiving such installments for 120 months, the present value of
the remaining payments shall be made to the Surviving Spouse of such
Participant, or if there is no Surviving Spouse, to the estate of the
Participant. Such present value shall be calculated using the interest rate that
was used to determine the amount of the monthly installments at the time
distribution of such payments commenced. 

(e)  Death following commencement
of distribution for a Participant who is a SERP Participant on December 31,
2008 :  Upon the death following commencement of benefits under
the Plan of a Participant described in Section 4.4(c)(iv), further payment of
benefits related to the Excess Retirement Benefit shall be the survivor benefit,
if any, payable under the terms of an election made on or before December 31,
2008 with respect to benefits that may become payable to the Participant under
the SERP and under this Plan, determined under the actuarial assumptions and
methodology set forth in the SERP.   Any survivor benefit payable
pursuant to this Section 4.5(e) shall be paid to the same beneficiary to whom
survivor benefits are payable under the SERP. 

4.6. 

Future
      Benefit Adjustments 

(a)           Effective
with respect to benefits that commenced on or before December 1, 2008, if a
Participant has commenced receiving a pension under the Qualified Plan (other
than a deferred vested pension under a formula other than cash balance) in the
form of either a joint and 50 percent survivor annuity or a joint and 100
percent survivor annuity (including such a joint and survivor annuity pursuant
to the cash payment option under the AT T Management Pension Plan) and his
or her designated annuitant subsequently predeceases him or her, the
Participant s Excess Retirement Benefit under this Plan shall be adjusted
prospectively, by increasing the monthly pension by the original cost of the
survivor annuity form of benefit under the Qualified Plan. Such adjustment shall
be effective as of the first day of the first month following the death of the
Participant s designated annuitant.  The amount, if any, which is to
be paid from this Plan following the death of such designated annuitant shall be
determined pursuant to the recalculation provisions of Section 4.2 and Section
4.3. The provisions of this Section 4.6(a) do not apply with respect to a
distribution in the form of a commercial annuity pursuant to Section
7.1. 

(b)           In
the event that, following commencement of benefits on or before December 1, 2008
to a Participant or Surviving Spouse under the Plan, the Qualified Plan benefit
is subsequently increased as a result of a successful claim for benefits under
the Qualified Plan, the Excess Retirement Benefit to the Participant or
Surviving Spouse under this Article 4 shall be recalculated as soon as
practicable after the Qualified Plan benefit is adjusted.  The Company
shall have the right to recover any benefits paid from this Plan to the extent
that such payments are subsequently paid by the Qualified Plan as a result of
such successful claim for benefits under those plans. 

4.7. 

Suspension
      and Recommencement of Benefit
Payments 

Subject
to Section 5.2, if a Participant s benefit payments under the Qualified Plan are
suspended (or would have been suspended if the Participant had not received his
or her total benefit under such plan as a lump sum) under the terms of that plan
because of his or her employment or reemployment subsequent to termination of
employment, any type of benefit payment he or she is entitled to under this Plan
shall be permanently suspended for the period of such employment or reemployment
to the extent and in a manner consistent with the terms and conditions
applicable to the suspension of benefit payments under the Qualified Plan,
provided, however, that payments for which an Executive is entitled pursuant to
a commercial annuity contract purchased on his or her behalf pursuant to Section
7.1 of the Plan shall not be suspended for the period of such employment or
reemployment.  Payment of a Participant s suspended benefit under this
Plan shall recommence simultaneously with the recommencement of his or her
benefits under the Qualified Plan.  The amount of the Participant s
Excess Retirement Benefit upon recommencement shall be adjusted (including a
decrease, if applicable) to reflect adjustments, if any, in the amount of the
Participant s pension benefit under the Qualified Plan resulting from the period
of reemployment, pursuant to Section 4.2 and/or Section 4.3, including any
recalculations pursuant to Section 4.2(b) and Section
4.3(b).  Following recommencement of payment under this Plan, the
Participant (or Surviving Spouse) shall not be eligible to receive any payments
that would otherwise have been payable but for the suspension. 

Notwithstanding
the preceding, effective beginning January 1, 2005, benefits shall not be
suspended during a period of employment or reemployment. Benefits paid upon a
subsequent termination of employment shall be reduced by the actuarial
equivalent of the benefit payments that were continued during
reemployment. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this Article 4, effective for distributions
commencing on or before December 1, 2008, if the application of Code Section
417(e) has resulted in an increase in the Participant s or Surviving Spouse s
otherwise payable benefit under the AT T Management Pension Plan (including
the VRIP provisions) or the AT T Pension Plan, the benefit otherwise
determinable under this Plan will be decreased by the amount of the increase
attributable to the application of Code Section 417(e) under the AT T
Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan, as applicable, even if
this decrease results in eliminating the Excess Retirement Benefit from this
Plan. 

4.9. 

Change
      in Control Provisions 

(a)    In
accordance with the preceding provisions of Article 3 and this Article 4,
following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the benefit determined pursuant
to Section 4.2 and/or Section 4.3 for a CIC Eligible Employee shall be
determined taking into account the Change in Control provisions of the AT T
Management Pension Plan. 

(b)    Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 9.1, or any other provision of the Plan, unless
required by applicable law, this Section 4.9 may not be amended in any manner
adverse to the interests of Participants without their consent and, further,
upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, no amendment may be made to this
Section 4.9 by the Board, the Company, (including any successor to the Company),
any committee, any officer, or any other party to suspend, modify, or eliminate
any benefit provisions that are applicable upon occurrence of a Change in
Control.   

(a)           If
an Accident Death Benefit (for periods prior to January 1, 1999), Sickness Death
Benefit or Pensioner Death Benefit (collectively,  Death Benefit ) is payable
under the terms of the AT T Management Pension Plan but is limited by reason
of the Compensation Limitation, an Excess Death Benefit shall be paid as
provided in this Section 4.10 to the Beneficiary of an Executive otherwise
entitled to receive the Death Benefit under the terms and conditions of the
AT T Management Pension Plan, including the condition that no Pensioner
Death Benefit is payable with respect to a Participant who has commenced
distribution of the pension benefit under the AT T Management Pension Plan
but who at the time of death is not receiving payment in the form of an annuity
from that plan. 

(b)           The
amount, if any, of the Excess Death Benefit payable shall be equal to the
difference between (i) and (ii) where: 

(i)            is
the amount of the Death Benefit which would be provided to the Beneficiary under
the AT T Management Pension Plan, if any, without regard to the Compensation
Limitation under the AT T Management Pension Plan; and 

(ii)                       is
the amount of the Death Benefit actually payable to such Beneficiary under the
AT T Management Pension Plan. 

(c)           The
Excess Death Benefit provided under this Plan, if any, (i) shall commence at the
same time, (ii) shall be paid for as long as, and (iii) shall be paid in the
same benefit form as the Committee or its delegate has determined with respect
to the Death Benefit payable under the AT T Management Pension Plan.
Notwithstanding the preceding, effective for deaths occurring on or after
January 1, 2009, the Excess Death Benefit, if any, shall be paid in a lump sum
within a reasonable period of time following the date the Beneficiary is
identified by the Committee or its delegate. 

Article 

         5. 

      Miscellaneous
Provisions 

5.1. 

Determination
      of Benefits 

Except as
otherwise indicated herein, Excess Retirement Benefit payments under Article 4
of this Plan shall be calculated in accordance with the rules, procedures, and
assumptions utilized under the AT T Management Pension Plan or the AT T
Pension Plan, whichever is applicable. Thus, whenever it is necessary to
determine whether one benefit is less than, equal to, or larger than another, or
to determine the equivalent actuarial value of any benefit, whether or not such
form of benefit is provided under this Plan, such determination shall be made,
at the Administrator s discretion, by AT T Corp. s enrolled actuary, using
mortality, interest and other assumptions normally used at the time in
determining actuarial equivalence under the AT T Management Pension Plan or
AT T Pension Plan, whichever is applicable. 

5.2. 

Mandatory
      Portability Agreement 

A
Participant (a) who is employed by an  Interchange Company,  as that term is
defined under the Mandatory Portability Agreement ( MPA ), subsequent to
retirement or termination of employment from AT T Corp., its subsidiaries or
any affiliated company, (b) who is covered under the terms and conditions of the
MPA, and (c) for whom assets and liabilities are transferred from the AT T
Management Pension Plan or the AT T Pension Plan to a defined benefit
pension plan of an Interchange Company, shall forfeit his rights to an Excess
Retirement Benefit under this Plan, including the rights of the Participant s
spouse to an Excess Retirement Benefit as a Surviving Spouse and the rights of a
Beneficiary to an Excess Death Benefit. 
 
      Article 

         6. 

      Disposition
of Participating Company  

6.1. 

Sale,
      Spin-Off, or Other Disposition of Participating
  Company 

(a)           Subject
to Sections 5.2 and 10.1, in the event AT T Corp. sells, spins off, or
otherwise disposes of a Subsidiary, or disposes of all or substantially all of
the assets of a Subsidiary such that one or more Participants terminate
employment for the purpose of accepting employment with the purchaser of such
stock or assets, any person employed by such Subsidiary who ceases to be an
employee as a result of the sale, spin-off, or disposition shall be deemed to
have terminated his or her employment with a Participating Company and be
eligible for an Excess Retirement Benefit commencing in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this Plan that are applicable to a separation from
service.  Further, if the Participant dies after termination of
employment as described in this Section 6.1, his or her Surviving Spouse
may be entitled to an Excess Retirement Benefit, if eligible as provided in
Sections 4.2 and 4.3, and/or his or her Beneficiary may be entitled to an Excess
Death Benefit, if eligible as provided in Section 4.10. Notwithstanding the
preceding, effective January 1, 2005, no distribution shall commence pursuant to
this Section 6.1(a) unless the Participant has a separation from service, as
defined under Code Section 409A, with all members of the AT T controlled
group. 

(b)           Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.1, and subject to Section 10.1, if,
as part of the sale, spin-off, or other disposition of the stock or assets of a
Subsidiary, the Subsidiary, its successor owner, or any other party agrees in
writing to assume the liability for the payment of the Excess Retirement Benefit
and/or the Excess Death Benefit to which the Participant, Surviving Spouse
and/or Beneficiary would have been entitled under the Plan but for such sale,
spin-off, or other disposition, then the entitlement of the Participant or his
or her Surviving Spouse to an Excess Retirement Benefit and/or any Beneficiary
to an Excess Death Benefit under this Plan shall terminate. Any subsequent
entitlement of the former Participant or his or her Surviving Spouse or
Beneficiary to the Excess Retirement Benefit and/or the Excess Death Benefit
shall be the sole responsibility of the assuming party. 

Article 

         7. 

      Source
of Payment  

(a)     Benefits
arising under this Plan and all costs, charges, and expenses relating thereto
will be payable from the Company s general assets. The Company may, however,
establish a trust to pay such benefits and related expenses, provided such trust
does not cause the Plan to be  funded  within the meaning of ERISA. To the
extent trust assets are available, they may be used to pay benefits arising
under this Plan and all costs, charges, and expenses relating thereto. To the
extent that the funds held in the trust, if any, are insufficient to pay such
benefits, costs, charges and expenses, the Company shall pay such benefits,
costs, charges, and expenses from its general assets. 

(b)   In
addition, subject to the provisions of  Section 7.1(d), the Company
may, in its sole discretion, purchase and distribute one or more commercial
annuity contracts, or cause the trustee of the trust to purchase and distribute
one or more commercial annuity contracts, to make benefit payments required
under this Plan, to any Officer, as defined in the AT T Non-Qualified
Pension Plan, or the Surviving Spouse of any Officer, provided, however, that
with respect to an annuity purchase occurring prior to January 1,
2005,  the purchase and distribution of any such annuity contracts
shall be no sooner than the expiration of any forfeiture provisions applicable
to the Officer  under the AT T Non-Competition Guidelines, or as
otherwise may be provided in accordance with procedures establish by the
Executive Vice President   Human Resources (or any successor to such position),
and provided further that, effective January 1, 2004, the Company s right to
direct that payments under the Plan shall be made through one or more commercial
annuity contracts shall be applicable to only the benefits payable to any
Participant, or the Surviving Spouse of any such Participant, as applicable, who
(1) was  on the active payroll of the Company (or on an approved leave
of absence with guaranteed right of reinstatement) and classified as an Officer
on December 31, 2003, and (2) satisfies the age and service requirements, or is
within twelve months of satisfying the  requirements in effect at the
time the Participant terminates employment with the Company for the receipt of
retirement-related health benefits under the AT T Corp. Postretirement
Welfare Benefits Plan (or any successor to such plan) (other than by virtue of
the  Rule of 65 or  through a Company-sponsored employee-paid health
benefits access program, or through the AT T Corp. Separation Medical Plan),
without regard to whether or not the Officer has five years of service as of
December 31, 1999. Such annuity contracts may be purchased from a commercial
insurer acceptable to the Executive Vice President - Human Resources (or any
successor to such position). Further, the Executive Vice President - Human
Resources (or any successor to such position), may determine, in his or her sole
discretion, to pay additional sums to any Officer, from the Company s general
assets or from the trust, if any, to reimburse the Officer for additional
federal and state income taxes estimated to be incurred by reason of the
distribution of any such annuity contracts. The Executive Vice President - Human
Resources (or any successor to such position) shall establish a methodology or
methodologies for determining the amount of such additional sums. The
methodology or methodologies selected shall be those that the Executive Vice
President - Human Resources (or any successor to such position) determines, in
his or her sole discretion, to be the most effective and administratively
feasible for the purpose of producing after-tax periodic benefit payments that
approximate the after-tax periodic benefit payments that would have been
received by Officers in the absence of the distribution of the annuity
contract.  Any such purchase and distribution of an annuity contract
shall be a full and complete discharge of the Plan s, AT T Corp. s and the
Participating Companies  liability for payments assumed by the issuer of the
annuity contract. 

(c)    Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding Section 7.1(b), effective January 1, 2005, a
Participant who is eligible to elect to receive his or her benefit under the
Plan in the form of a third-party commercial annuity contract pursuant to
Section 7.1(b) shall be required to submit an election, on a form provided by
the Company, with respect to the time and form of payment in which benefits
under this Plan shall be distributed for any reason other than the death of the
Participant.  Such election form shall be submitted to the Company no
later than one of the following dates, whichever is applicable:  (i)
such Eligible Employee s separation from service, with respect to distribution
of such annuity contract during the 2005 calendar year, (ii) the earlier of (A)
such employee s separation from service, or (B) December 31, 2005, with respect
to the distribution of such annuity contract during the 2006 calendar year, and
(iii) December 31, 2006, for distributions of such annuity contracts occurring
after the 2006 calendar year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Company may permit such an employee to submit a distribution election form in
2006 with respect to his or her benefits under the Plan, provided that such
election in the 2006 calendar year may not result in a change in payment
elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive
during the 2006 calendar year, or to cause payments to be made in 2006, to the
extent permitted under the proposed Treasury Regulations under Code Section
409A. 

(d)  Notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding Section 7.1(b) and Section 7.1(c), the annuity
purchase program described in Section 7.1(b) shall be discontinued effective
September 6, 2007, and any election in effect on September 6, 2007 pursuant to
which a Participant has elected to receive distribution of his or her benefits
under this Plan through the purchase of a commercial annuity contract shall be
null and void, as such election relates to any distribution from this Plan to a
Participant or Surviving Spouse occurring after September 6, 2007. 

The Plan
at all times shall be entirely unfunded for purposes of the Code and ERISA and
no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of
a Participating Company for payment of any benefits hereunder. Funds that may be
invested through a trust described in Section 7.1 shall continue for all
purposes to be part of the general assets of the Participating Company that
invested the funds. The Plan constitutes a mere promise by AT T Corp. and
the Participating Companies to make Excess Retirement Benefit payments and
Excess Death Benefit payments, if any, in the future. No Participant, Surviving
Spouse or any other person shall have any interest in any particular assets of a
Participating Company by reason of the right to receive a benefit under the Plan
and to the extent the Participant, Surviving Spouse or any other person acquires
a right to receive benefits under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than
the right of any unsecured general creditor of a Participating
Company. 

7.3. 

Fiduciary
      Relationship 

Nothing
contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of the
Plan, shall create or be construed to create a trust or a fiduciary relationship
between or among AT T Corp., any other Participating Company, the Board, the
Administrator, the Committee, any Participant, any Surviving Spouse, or any
other person, except as provided in Section 8.4. 

Article 

         8. 

      Administration
of the Plan  

AT T
Corp. shall be the  administrator  of the Plan as that term is defined in
ERISA. 

Neither
the Administrator, any member of the Board or of the Committee, nor each other
officer to whom any duty or power relating to the administration or
interpretation of the Plan may be allocated or delegated, shall be personally
liable by reason of any contract or other instrument executed by such individual
or on his or her behalf in his or her capacity as the Administrator or as a
member of the Board or of the Committee, nor for any mistake of judgment made in
good faith, and AT T Corp. shall indemnify and hold harmless the
Administrator, each member of the Board, each member of the Committee, and each
other employee or officer to whom any duty or power relating to the
administration or interpretation of the Plan may be allocated or delegated,
against any cost or expense (including attorneys  fees) or liability (including
any sum paid in settlement of a claim) arising out of any act or omission to act
in connection with the Plan unless arising out of such person s own fraud or bad
faith. 

(a)           All
claims for benefit payments under the Plan shall be submitted in writing by the
Participant, Surviving Spouse, Beneficiaries, estate, or the duly authorized
representative of such person or estate ( Claimant  for purposes of this Section
8.3) to the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator shall notify the Claimant
in writing within 90 days after receipt as to whether the claim has been granted
or denied. This period may be extended for up to an additional 90 days, for a
total of 180 days, in the case of special circumstances provided that written
notice of the extension is furnished to the Claimant prior to the commencement
of the extension. In the event the claim is denied, in whole or in part, the
Claimant will receive notice of the Plan Administrator s decision, including:
(i) the specific reasons for the denial, (ii) reference to the pertinent Plan
provisions on which the denial is based, (iii) a description of any additional
material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect the claim and an
explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and (iv) a
description of the Plan s procedures for appealing the denial (including
applicable time limits) and the Claimant s right to bring a civil action under
section 502(a) of ERISA, to the extent ERISA applies to such claim for benefits,
following an adverse determination on review. 

(b)           Any
Claimant whose claim for benefits has been denied, in whole or in part, may,
within 60 days of receipt of any adverse benefit determination, appeal such
denial to the Committee. All appeals shall be in the form of a written statement
and shall (i) set forth all of the reasons in support of favorable action on the
appeal, (ii) identify those provisions of the Plan upon which the Claimant is
relying, and (iii) include copies of any other documents, records and other
materials which may support favorable consideration of the claim. If the
Claimant submits a written request for review of a denied claim, the Claimant is
entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and
copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claim
(as defined in DOL Reg.  2560.503-1(m)(8) for claims filed on or after January
1, 2002), to the extent ERISA applies to such claim for benefits, and (iv) a
statement of the right of the Claimant to bring a civil action under ERISA
Section 502(a) following an adverse benefit determination on review, to the
extent ERISA applies to such claim for benefits. The Committee shall decide the
issues presented within 60 days after receipt of such request, but this period
may be extended for up to an additional 60 days in the case of special
circumstances provided that written notice of the extension is furnished to the
Claimant prior to the commencement of the extension.  The extension
notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time
and the date by which the Committee expects to render the determination. In the
case of an adverse determination, the decision of the Committee shall be set
forth in writing and include (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse
determination, (ii) reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the
denial is based, (iii) a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive,
upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all
documents, records, and other information (as defined in DOL Reg.
 2560.503-1(m)(8) for claims filed on or after January 1, 2002) relevant to the
Claimant s claim for benefits, to the extent ERISA applies to such claim for
benefits, and (iv) a statement of the right of the Claimant to bring a civil
action under ERISA Section 502(a), to the extent ERISA applies to such claim for
benefits. 

Any
Claimant whose claim for benefits has been denied shall have such further rights
of review as are provided in ERISA Section 503, and the Committee and Plan
Administrator shall retain such right, authority, and discretion as is provided
in or not expressly limited by ERISA Section 503. 

(c)           The
Committee shall serve as the final review committee, under the Plan and ERISA,
for the review of all appeals by Claimants whose initial claims for benefits
have been denied, in whole or in part, by the Plan Administrator. The Committee
shall have the authority, subject to Section 8.3(d), to determine conclusively
for all parties any and all questions arising from administration of the Plan,
and shall have sole and complete discretionary authority and control to manage
the operation and administration of the Plan, including, but not limited to,
authorizing disbursements according to the Plan, the determination of all
questions relating to eligibility for participation and benefits, interpretation
of all Plan provisions, determination of the amount and kind of benefits payable
to any Participant, Surviving Spouse, Beneficiary or estate, and the
construction of disputed and doubtful terms. Such decisions by the Committee
shall be conclusive and binding on all parties and not subject to further
review. 

(d)           In
the event that the Company (or its designee) fails to make a decision on a claim
and/or appeal within 20 days of an event entitling the Claimant to a payment
under this Plan (or, if later, within the ninety/sixty day period, with
extensions, set forth in Section 8.3(a) and (b)), the Trustee of the AT T
Corp. Benefits Protection Trust ( Trust ) may make a decision in lieu of the
Company (or its designee) as authorized by the Trust and subject to the terms
and conditions of the Trust.  Any decision by the Trustee to make a
payment under this Plan to the Claimant is subject to the availability of Trust
assets allocated to pay benefits under this Plan.  A payment to the
Claimant from the prorated Trust assets shall be considered a satisfaction of
the Company s liability under this Plan to the extent payment from the Trust was
sufficient to cover the amount determined by the Trustee as the amount to which
the Claimant was entitled. 

AT T
Corp., the Committee, the Administrator(s) and each Participating Company, and
effective beginning August 22, 2006, the Chief Financial Officer of AT T
Inc., and the individual directly reporting to the Chief Executive Officer of
AT T Inc., who has responsibility for human resource matters, are each a
named fiduciary as that term is used in ERISA with respect to the particular
duties and responsibilities herein provided to be allocated to each of them,
respectively. 

8.5. 

Role
      of the Committee 

(a)           The
Committee shall have the specific powers elsewhere herein granted to it and
shall have such other powers as may be necessary in order to enable it to
administer the Plan, except for powers herein granted or provided to be granted
to others. 

(b)           The
adoption of by-laws and rules for the employment of a secretary and assistants
shall be the same as are set forth in AT T Management Pension Plan or the
AT T Pension Plan. 

8.6. 

Allocation
      of Responsibilities 

AT T
Corp. may allocate responsibilities for the operation and administration of the
Plan consistent with the Plan s terms, including allocation of responsibilities
to the Committee and the other Participating Companies. AT T Corp. and other
named fiduciaries may designate in writing other persons to carry out their
respective responsibilities under the Plan, and may employ persons to advise
them with regard to any such responsibilities. 

8.7. 

Multiple
      Capacities 

Any
person or group of persons may serve in more than one fiduciary capacity with
respect to the Plan. 

Article 

         9. 

      Amendment
and Termination  

9.1. 

Amendment
      and Termination 

Pursuant
to ERISA Section 402(b)(3), and subject to Section 4.9 of the Plan, the
Board or its delegate (acting pursuant to the Board s delegations of authority
then in effect) may from time to time amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan at
any time. Plan amendments may include, but are not limited to, elimination or
reduction in the level or type of benefits provided prospectively to any class
or classes of Participants (and Surviving Spouses and Beneficiaries). Any and
all Plan amendments may be made without the consent of any Participant,
Surviving Spouse or Beneficiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such
amendment, suspension, or termination shall retroactively impair or otherwise
adversely affect the rights of any Participant, Surviving Spouse, or other
person to benefits under the Plan, the AT T Management Pension Plan or the
AT T Pension Plan which have arisen prior to the date of such
action. 

Notwithstanding
the preceding, the Board may adopt any prospective or retroactive amendment that
it determines is necessary for the Plan to maintain its compliance with Code
Section 409A. 

Article 

         10. 

      General
Provisions  

The Plan
shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Participating Company and
its successors and assigns, and to each Participant, his or her successors,
designees, Beneficiaries, designated annuitants, and estate. The Plan shall also
be binding upon any successor corporation or organization succeeding to
substantially all of the assets and business of AT T Corp. Nothing in the
Plan shall preclude AT T Corp. from merging or consolidating into or with,
or transferring all or substantially all of its assets to, another corporation
which assumes the Plan and all obligations of AT T Corp. hereunder. AT T
Corp. agrees that it will make appropriate provision for the preservation of the
rights of Participants, Surviving Spouses and Beneficiaries under the Plan in
any agreement or plan or reorganization into which it may enter to effect any
merger, consolidation, reorganization, or transfer of assets. Upon such a
merger, consolidation, reorganization, or transfer of assets, the term
 Participating Company  shall refer to such other corporation and the Plan shall
continue in full force and effect. 

Neither
the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as (i) a contract of
employment or deemed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the
employment of a Participating Company, the right to any level of compensation,
or the right to future participation in the Plan; or (ii) affecting the right of
a Participating Company to discharge or dismiss any Participant at any
time. 

No Excess
Retirement Benefit or Excess Death Benefit under this Plan or any right or
interest in such Excess Retirement Benefit or Excess Death Benefit shall be
assignable or subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer,
claims of creditors, garnishment, pledge, execution, attachment or encumbrance
of any kind, including, but not limited to, pursuant to any domestic relations
order (within the meaning of ERISA Section 206(d)(3) and Code
Section 414(p)(1)(B)) or judgment or claims for alimony, support, separate
maintenance, and claims in bankruptcy proceedings, and any such attempted
disposition shall be null and void. 

If the
Plan Administrator shall find that any person to whom any amount is or was
payable under the Plan is unable to care for his or her affairs because of
illness or accident, then any payment, or any part thereof, due to such person
(unless a prior claim therefore has been made by a duly appointed legal
representative), may, if the Plan Administrator so directs AT T Corp., be
paid to the same person or institution that the benefit with respect to such
person is paid or to be paid under the AT T Management Pension Plan or
AT T Pension Plan, if applicable, or the Participant s Surviving Spouse, a
child, a relative, an institution maintaining or having custody of such person,
or any other person deemed by the Administrator to be a proper recipient on
behalf of such person otherwise entitled to payment. Any such payment shall be
in complete discharge of the liability of AT T Corp., the Board, the
Committee, the Administrator, and the Participating Company therefore. If any
payment to which a Participant, Surviving Spouse or Beneficiary is entitled
under this Plan is unclaimed or otherwise not subject to payment to the person
or persons so entitled, such amounts representing such payment or payments shall
be forfeited after a period of two years from the date the first such payment
was payable and shall not escheat to any state or revert to any party; provided,
however, that any such payment or payments shall be restored if any person
otherwise entitled to such payment or payments makes a valid claim. 

If any
section, clause, phrase, provision, or portion of this Plan or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance shall be invalid or unenforceable under
any applicable law, such event shall not affect or render invalid or
unenforceable the remainder of this Plan and shall not affect the application of
any section, clause, provision, or portion hereof to other persons or
circumstances. 

Each plan
year shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31. 

The
captions preceding the sections and articles hereof have been inserted solely as
a matter of convenience and shall not in any manner define or limit the scope or
intent of any provisions of the Plan. 

The Plan
shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas (other than its conflict of
laws provisions) from time to time in effect, except to the extent such laws are
preempted by the laws of the United States of America. 

This
written Plan document is the final and exclusive statement of the terms of this
Plan, and any claim of right or entitlement under the Plan shall be determined
in accordance with its provisions pursuant to the procedures described in
Article 8. Unless otherwise authorized by the Board or its delegate, no
amendment or modification to this Plan shall be effective until reduced to
writing and adopted pursuant to Section 9.1. 

If any
overpayment is made by the Plan for any reason, the Plan shall have the right to
recover such overpayment.  The Participant shall cooperate fully with
the Plan to recover any overpayment and provide any necessary information and
required documents. Any recovery of overpayment pursuant to this Section 10.10
may be deducted from future benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant
from this Plan. 

</EX-10.HHH>

<EX-10.III>
 30
 ex10iii.htm
 BELLSOUTH SPLIT DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE PLAN

ex10iii.htm 

Exhibit
10-iii 

BELLSOUTH
SPLIT-DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

AS
AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE AS OF JANUARY 1, 2005 

1.           PURPOSE 

The
purpose of the BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan (the "Plan") is to
provide a split-dollar insurance arrangement under which BellSouth Corporation
and its subsidiaries and affiliates can assist key employees in acquiring and
financing life insurance coverage. This Plan incorporates the provisions of the
BellSouth Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan and the BellSouth
Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance Plan, as amended as of the effective
date of this Plan (the "Prior Plans"), and, as of such effective date, shall be
deemed to constitute a complete restatement of both Prior Plans, as amended
(except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in Section 3.1 of this
Plan). 

2.           DEFINITIONS 

For
purposes of this Plan, the following terms have the meanings set forth
below: 

2.1 

" Agreement " means the
      agreement executed between the Employer and a Participant implementing the
      terms of this Plan, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit
      "A". 

2.2 

" Assignment " means the
      collateral assignment executed by the Policy Owner, substantially in
      the form attached hereto as Exhibit
"B". 

2.3 

Coverage   Am  o  unt " means the face
      amount of the insurance death benefit provided to a Participant under the
      Plan, as specified in Participant's
Agreement. 

2.4 

" Disability " means that
      the Participant is receiving disability benefits under any long-term
      disability plan sponsored by the Employer or an affiliated
      entity. 

2.6 

" Employee " means an
      employee or former employee of the Employer who is eligible to participate
      in the Plan. 

2.7 

" Employer " means
      BellSouth Corporation and any subsidiary or affiliate of BellSouth
      Corporation which is authorized by the Plan Administrator to participate
      in this Plan. 

2.8 

" Employer A  cc  ount " means, with
      respect to a Participant's Policy, a bookkeeping entry maintained by the
      Employer pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan, equal to the lesser of (1) the
      cash value of the Policy, or (2) the amount of Policy premiums paid by the
      Employer (and not collected from the Participant). With respect to a
      Replacement Policy, the amount of Policy premiums paid by the Employer
      shall be deemed to include the total of all such premiums paid on the
      Replacement Policy and the Replaced Policy, reduced by an amount equal to
      that portion of the Replaced Policy Cash Value, if any, paid to the
      Employer at the time the Replacement Policy is
  issued. 

2.9 

Employer   Premium " means, with
      respect to a Participant's Policy, the total Policy premium payable for
      the Policy Year by the Company as specified in the Participant's
      Agreement, less the portion of the premium to be paid by the Participant
      pursuant to Section 5.1 of the
Plan. 

2.10 

" Enrollment Age " means
      the Participant's age at the time of enrollment in the Prior Plans as to
      the Participant's initial Coverage Amount, and it means the Participant's
      age at a subsequent enrollment for an increased Coverage Amount as to the
      increased Coverage Amount; provided, however, that with respect to a
      Replacement Policy, the age at enrollment shall mean the age at the
      time of enrollment for the Replaced
Policy. 

2.11 

" Insurance Co  s  t " means, with respect
      to a Participant, the annual cost for the Participant's Coverage Amount
      determined pursuant to the Insurance Cost schedule maintained by the Plan
      Administrator. The Insurance Cost for a Participant shall be determined as
      of the time of the Participant's enrollment in the Prior Plan(s), based on
      the Participant's Coverage Amount and Enrollment Age, and shall not change
      thereafter. A smoker rate shall be used to determine the Insurance Cost
      for any Participant who smoked cigarettes at any time during the twelve
      month period immediately preceding the Participant's enrollment; a
      nonsmoker rate shall be used for all other Participants. However,
      notwithstanding the previous sentence, if a Replacement Policy is issued
      for a Participant and the Participant qualifies as a nonsmoker for the
      Replacement Policy, the nonsmoker rate shall thereafter be used to
      determine the Insurance Cost for the
  Participant. 

If a
Participant's coverage is in effect for a period of less than twelve (12) months
during any Policy Year, the Participant's Insurance Cost for that year shall be
determined by multiplying the annual cost as determined from the insurance cost
schedule by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months that
the coverage is in effect and the denominator of which is twelve
(12). 

2.12 

" In  surer " means, with
      respect to a Participant's Policy, the insurance company issuing the
      insurance policy or group policy certificate on the Participant's life (or
      on the joint lives of the Participant and the Participant's spouse)
      pursuant to the provisions of the
Plan. 

2.13 

" Particip  ant " means an Employee
      who is participating in the Plan. 

2.14 

" Participant Account "
      means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, a bookkeeping entry
      maintained by the Employer pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan, equal to the
      excess, if any, of the cash value of the Policy over the Employer
      Account. 

2.15 

" Parti  cipant Premium " means,
      with respect to each Policy Year (or portion thereof) for a Participant,
      the greater of (1) the Participant's Insurance Cost; or (2) the one year
      term cost for the Policy Year (or portion thereof) determined based on the
      Participant's age at the beginning of the Policy Year, the Insurer's
      published one year term rates in effect at the beginning of the Policy
      Year, and the Participant's Coverage Amount under the Plan. The one year
      term cost amount shall be determined pursuant to the guidelines set
      forth in Revenue Ruling 66 -110, 1966-1 C.B. 12, and Revenue
      Ruling 67-154, 1967-1 C.B. 11, and shall be conclusively determined
      by the Plan Administrator. 

2.16 

" Permanent Policy " means
      a Policy having cash values which are projected to be sufficient to
      continue to provide death benefit coverage at least equal to the
      Participant's Coverage Amount until the policy maturity date specified in
      the Participant's Policy (determined without regard to any Policy rider
      which extends the maturity date beyond the originally scheduled policy
      maturity date), and which is projected to have a cash accumulation value
      equal to at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the Policy Coverage Amount
      at the maturity date specified in such Policy, with no further premium
      payments, following a withdrawal by the Employer of all amounts to which
      it is entitled pursuant to Section 8.3. A determination as to whether a
      Policy is at a given time a Permanent Policy shall be made by the Plan
      Administrator, and shall be based on Policy projections provided by the
      Insurer or its agent utilizing the Policy's then current mortality rates
      and Policy expenses, and the following Policy interest crediting rates.
      For the Policy Year of the Employer withdrawal made pursuant to Section
      8.3, the projections shall reflect the actual Policy interest crediting
      rate in effect for such year (or, if such rate is not known when the
      determination is made the actual rate in effect for the preceding
      Policy Year). For each of the ten (10) succeeding Policy Years, the
      projections shall reflect that rate decreased ratably such that the rate
      in the tenth Policy Year following the Policy Year in which the Employer
      withdrawal occurs will be five percent (5%). For all successive Policy
      Years, the projections shall reflect a five percent (5%) Policy interest
      crediting rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the actual Policy
      interest crediting rate in effect when the determination is made is less
      than five percent (5%), the projections shall reflect such lower rate for
      the Policy Year of the Employer withdrawal and all subsequent Policy
      Years. 

2.17 

" Plan " means the
      BellSouth Split-Dollar Life Insurance Plan. Except as otherwise provided
      in Section 3.1, with respect to each Participant who participated in the
      BellSouth Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan, the Plan shall be
      construed and interpreted as a restatement of the provisions of such plan,
      as amended; and, with respect to each Participant who participated in the
      BellSouth Corporation Senior Manager Life Insurance Plan, the Plan shall
      be construed and interpreted as a restatement of such plan, as
      amended. 

2.18 

" Plan   Administrator " means the
      Chief Executive Officer of BellSouth Corporation and any individual or
      committee he designates to act on his behalf with respect to any or all of
      his responsibilities hereunder; provided, the Board of Directors of
      BellSouth Corporation may designate any other person or committee to serve
      in lieu of the Chief Executive Officer as the Plan Administrator with
      respect to any or all of the administrative responsibilities
      hereunder. 

2.19 

" Policy " means the life
      insurance coverage acquired on the life of the Participant (or on the
      joint lives of the Participant and the Participant's spouse) by the
      Participant or other Policy Owner, which may be issued as a separate
      insurance policy or a certificate under a group
  policy. 

2.20 

" Policy   Owner " means the
      Participant or that person or entity to whom the Participant has assigned
      his interest in the Policy. In the case of a Replacement Policy issued to
      replace a Policy for which the Policy Owner is other than the Participant,
      the Policy Owner of the Replacement Policy shall be the same as the Policy
      Owner of the Policy being replaced , unless elected otherwise by such
      Policy Owner. 

2.21 

" Poli  c  y   Year " means the twelve
      month period (and each successive twelve month period) beginning on the
      effective date of the Agreement. 

2.22 

" Premium Payment Years "
      means, with respect to a Participant's Policy, the number of consecutive
      Policy Years (including, for a Replacement Policy, the number of Policy
      Years during which the Replaced Policy was in force), beginning with the
      first Policy Year, during which the Employer is required to pay a Policy
      premium, as specified in the Participant's
  Agreement. 

2.23 

" Replaced   Policy " means a Policy
      which has been replaced by a Replacement Policy. If a Participant's Policy
      has been replaced more than one time, then the term Replaced Policy shall
      include all prior Policies. 

2.24 

" Repl  aced Policy Cash Value "
      means the cash value of the Replaced Policy on the Effective
      Date. 

2.25 

" Replacement   Policy " means a Policy
      issued to replace a Policy previously issued under the
    Plan. 

2.26 

" Retirement " means a
      termination of the Participant's employment with the Employer under
      circumstances where the Participant is immediately eligible to receive
      pension benefits under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP)
      maintained by the Employer or one of its
  subsidiaries. 

2.27 

" S  in  gle   Life   Coverage " means life
      insurance coverage on the life of the
  Participant. 

2.28 

" Survivorship Coverage "
      means life insurance coverage on the lives of the Participant and the
      Participant's spouse, with the life insurance death benefit to be payable
      at the death of the last survivor of the Participant and the
      Participant's spouse. 

2.29 

" Termin  ated   for   Cause " means, with
      respect to a Participant, the termination of the Participant's employment
      with the Employer due to: (i) fraud, misappropriation, embezzlement, or
      intentional material damage to the property or business of the Employer;
      (ii) commission of a felony involving moral turpitude of which the
      Participant is finally adjudicated guilty; or (iii) continuance of either
      willful and repeated failure or grossly negligent and repeated failure by
      the Participant to materially perform his
  duties. 

3.           ELIGIBILITY 

3.1 

General .  Each
      Employee with a Prior Plan Agreement in effect on the day preceding the
      Effective Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan, provided that
      the Employee (and any other appropriate party, such as the Employee's
      spouse or a Policy Owner other than the Employee, as determined by the
      Plan Administrator) executes an Agreement consenting to the terms of this
      Plan, as amended, and completes such other forms as the Plan Administrator
      shall require. Any Employee eligible to participate who fails to execute
      (or secure execution of) an enrollment form consenting to the terms of
      this Plan, as amended, within the time period prescribed by the Plan
      Administrator, shall not be eligible for coverage under the Plan, but
      shall remain subject to the terms and conditions of the Prior Plan(s) in
      which such Employee participates as in effect on the day preceding the
      Effective Date, as amended thereafter from time to time. Effective
      November 24, 2003, any Employee who is, or becomes, an executive officer
      or director of BellSouth Corporation (as such terms are used in Section
      402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) shall be ineligible to participate
      in the Plan and any Agreement previously executed by such Employee shall
      be terminated pursuant to Section 8 of the
Plan. 

3.2 

Type of   Coverage .  The
      type(s) of coverage for a Participant on the Effective Date shall be the
      type(s) of coverage in place on the day preceding the Effective Date
      pursuant to the Participant's Agreement(s) under the Prior Plan(s).
      Provided, however, that the Policy Owner may make a one-time election to
      exchange Survivorship Coverage for Single Life Coverage (equal to fifty
      percent (50%) of the Participant's Survivorship Coverage Amount), or to
      exchange Single Life Coverage for Survivorship Coverage (equal to two
      hundred percent (200%) of the Participant's Single Life Coverage Amount),
      subject to any proof of insurability required by the Insurer. Such an
      election must be made within the time period prescribed by the Plan
      Administrator. If an unmarried Participant enrolls for Single Life
      Coverage and subsequently marries, then, subject to the approval of
      the Plan Administrator, the Participant (or other Policy Owner) shall have
      the right to make an election, exercisable no later than one hundred
      eighty (180) days following the marriage, to convert (subject to any proof
      of insurability required by the Insurer) the Single Life Coverage to
      Survivorship Coverage (with the Coverage Amount equal to two hundred
      percent (200%) of the Single Life Coverage Amount). If a married
      Participant enrolls for Survivorship Coverage and subsequently divorces,
      then, subject to the approval of the Plan Administrator, the Participant
      (or other Policy Owner) shall have the right to make an election,
      exercisable no later than one hundred eighty (180) days following the
      finalization of the divorce, to convert (subject to any proof of
      insurability required by the Insurer) the Survivorship Coverage to Single
      Life Coverage (with the Coverage Amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of
      the Survivorship Coverage Amount). Under no other circumstances shall a
      Participant (or other Policy Owner) have any right to change an election
      as to type of coverage after the coverage becomes effective. Any Insurer
      charges or tax liability resulting from a conversion shall be borne by the
      Participant or other Policy Owner. 

4.           AMOUNT
OF COVERAGE 

The
Coverage Amount for a Participant shall be the amount specified in the
Participant's Agreement. 

5.           PAYMENT
OF PREMIUMS; PAYMENT OF CERTAIN TAXES 

5.1 

Participant Premium
        Payments .
       A Participant shall pay the Participant Premium for each Policy Year
      which is a Premium Payment Year for the Participant. The amount shall be
      paid by the Participant to the Employer by payroll (or retirement income)
      deductions of equal installments during the Policy Year, or in such other
      manner as may be agreed to between the Plan Administrator and the
      Participant. The Employer shall pay the Participant Premium amount to the
      Insurer, and can do so as collected from the Participant or can advance
      payments to the Insurer for a Policy Year at any time during the Policy
      Year or up to thirty (30) days in advance of the Policy Year. If a
      Participant terminates employment with the Employer, and the Employer has
      made such an advance payment of the Participant Premium to the Insurer,
      the Employer may withhold any uncollected portion of the advanced
      Participant Premium from any amount payable to the Participant by the
      Employer to the extent permitted by law. Notwithstanding the other
      provisions of this paragraph, no Participant Premium shall be required
      with respect to Survivorship Coverage after the death of the Participant,
      and no Participant Premium shall be required after termination of the
      Participant's Agreement pursuant to Section
8.1. 

5.2 

Employer Premium
      Payments .  The Employer shall pay the Employer Premium
      for a Participant's Policy within thirty (30) days of the beginning of
      each Policy Year which is a Premium Payment Year. However, no Employer
      Premium shall be required: (1) after the Participant's Agreement
      terminates pursuant to Section 8.1; or, (2) for a Policy Year if the
      Employer withdrawal and release of Assignment under Section 8.3 would have
      occurred at the end of the prior Policy year but for the requirement in
      Section 8.3 that the Policy not constitute a Modified Endowment Contract
      following such withdrawal. Also, if the payment of the Employer Premium
      for a Policy year would cause the Participant's Policy to constitute a
      Modified Endowment Contract (as such term is defined in Section 7702A of
      the Internal Revenue Code), then the Employer Premium amount for such
      Policy year shall be reduced to the largest such amount that can be paid
      without causing the Policy to constitute a Modified Endowment Contract.
      The Employer may, but shall not be required to, make additional premium
      payments with respect to a Participant's Policy after the last Premium
      Payment Year. 

5.3            Additional Employer
Payments . 

a. 

If,
      during any year participation in the Plan results in the recognition of
      income for tax purposes by the Participant as a result of BellSouth's
      election to treat premium payments as loans for federal tax purposes and
      to impute interest thereon to affected Participants, the Employer shall
      pay to the Participant an amount determined by the Plan Administrator
      which is designed to approximate the (1) sum of the total federal and
      state income taxes and additional payroll taxes which would be payable by
      the Participant at the highest marginal rate provided for under applicable
      federal income tax laws, and at the highest marginal rate provided for
      under applicable state income tax laws for the state of the Participant's
      tax domicile, on the additional income so recognized for the year, plus
      (2) the total federal and state income taxes and payroll taxes which would
      be payable by the Participant on the payment described in clause (1). Any
      payment to be made under this subsection a. shall be made no later than
      April 1 of the year following the year to which the payment
      relates. 

b. 

If,
      with respect to Survivorship Coverage after the death of the Participant,
      participation in the Plan results in the recognition of income for tax
      purposes by the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner as a result of
      BellSouth's election to treat premium payments as loans for federal tax
      purposes and to impute interest thereon to affected Participants, the
      Employer shall pay to the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner an
      amount determined by the Plan Administrator which is designed to
      approximate the total federal and state income taxes which would be
      payable by the Participant's spouse or other Policy Owner at the highest
      marginal rate provided for under applicable federal income tax laws, and
      the highest marginal rate provided for under applicable state income tax
      laws for the state of the tax domicile of the Participant's spouse or
      other Policy Owner, on the income so recognized . Any payment to be made
      under this subsection b. shall be made no later than April 1 of the year
      following the year to which the payment
relates. 

c. 

If
      the termination of the Employer's interest in a Participant's Policy
      pursuant to Section 8.3 of the Plan results in the recognition of income
      for tax purposes by the Participant, the Employer shall pay to the
      Participant an amount determined by the Plan Administrator which is
      designed to approximate the total federal and state income taxes which
      would be payable by the Participant at the highest marginal rate
      provided for under applicable federal income tax laws, and at the highest
      marginal rate provided for under applicable state income tax laws for the
      state of the Participant's tax domicile, attributable to such termination.
      Such payment shall be made immediately following the termination of the
      Employer's interest in the Policy or, if later, at such time as a
      determination is made that such a tax is
  payable. 

d. 

For
      purposes of this Section 5.3, a tax shall be deemed payable or income
      shall be deemed recognized, if either (i) it is finally determined by the
      Internal Revenue Service, or (ii) an opinion is given by the Employer's
      counsel, that the tax is payable. 

e. 

Any
      amount to be paid to a Participant, a Participant's spouse, or other
      Policy Owner under this Section, and the amounts payable, shall be
      conclusively determined by the Plan Administrator, based on generally
      applicable tax rates and not based upon the unique tax situation of each
      Participant, Participant's spouse, or other Policy
  Owner. 

6.           ACCOUNTS 

With
respect to each Policy covered by an Agreement made under this Plan, the
Employer shall maintain bookkeeping entries reflecting the Employer Account and
Participant Account values. 

7.           POLICY
OWNERSHIP 

7.1 

Ownership .  Except
      as otherwise provided in this Plan, the Policy Owner shall be the sole and
      exclusive owner of a Participant's Policy and shall be entitled to
      exercise all of the rights of ownership including, but not limited to, the
      right to designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive payment of
      the portion of the death benefit under the Policy equal to the Coverage
      Amount, and the right to assign any part or all of the Policy Owner's
      interest in the Policy (subject to the Employer's rights, the terms and
      conditions of the Assignment specified in Section 7.2 of the Plan, and the
      terms and conditions of this Plan) to any person, entity or trust by the
      execution of a written instrument delivered to the
    Employer. 

7.2 

Employer's
      Rights .  In exchange for the Employer's agreement to pay
      the amounts described in Sections 5.2 and 5.3 of this Plan, the Policy
      Owner shall execute an Assignment to the Employer of the rights provided
      to the Employer under this Plan. The Employer shall have the right to
      direct the Policy Owner in writing to take any action required consistent
      with these rights, and upon the receipt of such written direction from the
      Employer, the Policy Owner shall promptly take such action as is necessary
      to comply therewith. The Employer agrees that it shall not exercise any
      rights assigned to it in the Assignment in any way that might impair or
      defeat the rights and interest of the Policy Owner under this Plan. The
      Employer shall have the right to assign any part or all of interest in the
      Policy (subject to the Policy Owner's rights and the terms and conditions
      of this Plan) to any person, entity or trust by the execution of a written
      instrument delivered to the Policy
Owner. 

7.3 

Delivery and Possession of
      Policy .  Any Policy issued pursuant to an Agreement under
      the Plan shall be delivered by the Insurer directly to the Employer, and
      the Employer shall accept delivery of any such Policy on behalf of the
      Participant or other Policy Owner and shall have the authority to execute
      any forms or procedures required by the Insurer in order to complete the
      issue and delivery of such Policy. Thereafter, the Employer shall keep
      possession of the Policy as long as there is an Assignment in effect with
      respect to the Policy. The Employer agrees to make the Policy available to
      the Policy Owner or to the Insurer from time to time for the purposes of
      endorsing or filing any change of beneficiary on the Policy or exercising
      any other rights as the owner of the Policy, but the Policy shall promptly
      be returned to the Employer. 

7.4 

Policy
      Loans .  Except as otherwise specifically provided for in
      Section 8 of this Plan, neither the Employer nor the Policy Owner may
      borrow against the Policy cash
values. 

7.5 

Withdrawals and
      Surrender .  Except as otherwise specifically provided for
      in Section 8 of this Plan, neither the Employer nor the Policy Owner may
      withdraw Policy cash values or surrender all or a portion of the Policy.
      Provided, however, that a cancellation or exchange of a Replaced Policy in
      connection with the acquisition of a Replacement Policy shall not be
      deemed a withdrawal from or surrender of the Replaced
    Policy. 

8.           TERMINATION
OF AGREEMENT 

8.1 

Termination
      Events .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
      the Participant's Agreement, and the Employer's obligation to pay premiums
      with respect to the Participant's Policy acquired pursuant to the
      Agreement, shall terminate upon the first to occur of any of the following
      events: 

a. 

Termination
      of employment of the Participant with the Employer prior to the
      Participant's death for reasons other than Retirement or Disability; or
      upon termination of a disabled Participant's Disability prior to the
      Participant's death for reasons other than Retirement or return to active
      status. 

b. 

Termination
      of the Participant's Agreement by mutual agreement of the Participant and
      the Employer. 

c. 

A
      unilateral election by the Participant to terminate the Participant's
      Agreement; provided, however, that such an election may be made by a
      Participant only within sixty (60) days following the end of the last
      Premium Payment Year for the Participant's
  Policy. 

d. 

The
      written notice by the Employer to the Participant following a resolution
      by the Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation to terminate this Plan
      and all Agreements made under the
Plan. 

e. 

As
      to Single Life Coverage only, the death of the
  Participant 

f. 

As
      to Survivorship Coverage only, the death of the last survivor of the
      Participant and the Participant's
spouse 

g. 

After
      the release of Assignment pursuant to Section
      8.3. 

h. 

Upon
      becoming an executive officer or director of BellSouth Corporation (as
      such terms are used in Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002). 

8.2            Disposition of
Policy  

a. 

In
      the event of a termination of a Participant's Agreement under Section 8.1a
      or b of the Plan, the Policy Owner shall be entitled to acquire the
      Employer's rights under the Participant's Policy by paying to the Employer
      an amount equal to the Employer Account; alternatively, the Policy Owner
      can require the Employer to withdraw a portion of the cash values from the
      Participant's Policy, partially surrender the Policy, or borrow a portion
      of the cash values from the Participant's Policy, with the amount to be
      specified by the Policy Owner, and the Policy Owner's required payment to
      the Employer under this Section shall thereby be reduced to an amount
      equal to the excess of the Employer Account over the amount withdrawn,
      received upon partial surrender, or borrowed by the Employer (for these
      purposes, the amount withdrawn, received upon partial surrender, or
      borrowed shall refer to the amount actually received by the Employer after
      the application of any charges, such as surrender charges, applicable to
      the withdrawal, partial surrender, or borrowing). The Policy Owner may
      exercise this interest in the Policy by so notifying the Employer within
      ninety (90) days after an event of termination under Section 8.1a or b of
      this Plan has occurred. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of such
      notice, the Employer shall make any required withdrawal, partial
      surrender, or policy loan and the Policy Owner shall pay the Employer the
      applicable payment, if any. Upon receipt of payment from the Policy Owner,
      or immediately following the withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy loan
      if no payment is required, the Employer shall release the Assignment and
      the Policy Owner shall have all rights, title, and interest in the Policy
      free of all provisions and restrictions of the Assignment, the Agreement
      and this Plan. 

b. 

Notwithstanding
      the provisions of Section 8.2a , if the Participant is Terminated for
      Cause by the Employer, then the Policy Owner shall have no right to
      acquire the interest in the Policy. 

c. 

If
      the Policy Owner fails to exercise his right to acquire the interest in
      the Policy pursuant to Section 8.2a or is precluded from exercising such
      right pursuant to Section 8.2b, the Policy Owner shall transfer title to
      the Policy to the Employer, free of all provisions and restrictions of the
      Assignment, the Participant's Agreement and this
  Plan. 

d. 

In
      the event of a termination of a Participant's Agreement pursuant to the
      Participant's election under Section 8.1c, the Employer shall receive from
      the Participant's Policy an amount equal to the Employer Account, with
      such amount to be received through a withdrawal, partial surrender, policy
      loan, or some combination thereof, as determined by the Employer.
      Immediately thereafter, the Employer shall release the Assignment and the
      Policy Owner shall have all rights, title and interest in the Policy free
      of all provisions and restrictions of the Assignment, the Participant's
      Agreement, and this Plan. 

8.3 

Release of
      Assignment .  At the end of each Policy Year for a
      Participant's Policy, the Plan Administrator shall determine whether a
      withdrawal from the Policy by the Employer of an amount equal to the
      Employer Account, and a release of the Assignment, shall occur with
      respect to the Participant's Policy. Such withdrawal and release shall be
      made within ninety (90) days after the end of the first Policy Year as of
      the end of which: (1) the Participant's Policy would qualify as a
      Permanent Policy following such withdrawal by the Employer; and, (2) the
      Participant's Policy would not constitute a Modified Endowment Contract
      (as such term is defined in Section 7702A of the Internal Revenue Code)
      following such withdrawal. The Employer withdrawal shall be made though a
      withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy loan, or some combination
      thereof, as determined by the Employer. Immediately after receiving the
      proceeds of the withdrawal, partial surrender, or policy loan, the
      Employer shall release the Assignment and the Policy Owner shall have all
      rights, title and interest in the Policy free of all provisions and
      restrictions of the Assignment, the Participant's Agreement and this
      Plan. 

8.4   

Allocation of Death
      Benefit .  In the event of a termination under Section
      8.1e or 8.1f of the Plan, the death benefit under the Participant's Policy
      shall be divided as follows: 

a. 

The
      beneficiary or beneficiaries of the Policy Owner shall be entitled to
      receive an amount equal to the Coverage
    Amount. 

b. 

The
      Employer shall be entitled to receive the balance of the death
      benefit. 

8.5 

Employer
      Undertakings .  Upon the death of the Participant (or, in
      the case of Survivorship Coverage, the death of the last survivor of the
      Participant and the Participant's spouse) while the Participant's
      Agreement is in force, the Employer agrees to take such action as may be
      necessary to obtain payment from the Insurer of the death benefit to the
      beneficiaries, including, but not limited to, providing the Insurer with
      an affidavit as to the amount to which the Employer is entitled under the
      Agreement and this Plan. 

9.           GOVERNING
LAWS AND NOTICES 

9.1 

Governing
      Law .  This Plan shall be governed by and construed in
      accordance with the laws of the State of
  Georgia. 

9.2 

Notices .  All
      notices hereunder shall be in writing and sent by first class mail with
      postage prepaid. Any notice to the Employer shall be addressed to
      BellSouth Corporation at its office at 1155 Peachtree Street. N.E.,
      Atlanta, GA 30367-6000, ATTENTION: Human Resources-Director Executive
      Benefits. Any notice to the Employee shall be addressed to the Employee at
      the address following such party's signature on his Agreement. Any party
      may change the  address for such party herein set forth by giving notice
      of such change to the other parties pursuant to this
    Section. 

10.           NOT
A CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT 

This Plan
and any Agreement executed hereunder shall not be deemed to constitute a
contract of employment between an Employee and the Employer or a Participant and
the Employer, nor shall any provision restrict the right of the Employer to
discharge an Employee or Participant, or restrict the right of an Employee or
Participant to terminate employment. 

11.           AMENDMENT,
TERMINATION, ADMINISTRATION, CONSTRUCTION AND SUCCESSORS 

11.1 

Amendment .  The
      Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation, or its delegate, shall have
      the right in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan in whole or in part at
      any time and from time to time. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall
      have the right, in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan at any time and
      from time to time so long as such amendment is not of a material nature.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, no modification or amendment shall be
      effective so as to decrease any benefits of a Participant unless the
      Participant consents in writing to such modification or amendment. Written
      notice of any material modification or amendment shall be given promptly
      to each Participant. 

11.2 

Termination .  The
      Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation may terminate the Plan without
      the consent of the Participants or
Employees. 

11.3 

Interpretation .  As
      to the provisions of the Assignment, the Agreement and the Plan, the
      provisions of the Assignment shall control.  As between the
      Agreement and the Plan, the provisions of the Agreement shall
      control. 

11.4 

Successors .  The
      terms and conditions of this Plan shall enure to the benefit of and bind
      the Employer, the Participant, their successors, assignees, and
      representatives. If, subsequent to the Effective Date of the Plan,
      substantially all of the stock or assets of the Employer are acquired by
      another corporation or entity or if the Employer is merged into, or
      consolidated with, another corporation or entity, then the obligations
      created hereunder shall be obligations of the acquirer or successor
      corporation or entity. 

12.           PLAN
ADMINISTRATION 

12.1 

Individual
      Administrator .  If the Plan Administrator is an
      individual, he shall act and record his actions in writing. Any matter
      concerning specifically such individual's own benefit or rights hereunder
      shall be determined by the Board of Directors of BellSouth Corporation or
      its delegate. 

12.2 

Administrative
      Committee .  If the Plan Administrator is a committee, or
      if any of the duties or responsibilities of the Plan Administrator are
      vested in a committee, action of the Plan Administrator may be taken with
      or without a meeting of committee members; provided, action shall be taken
      only upon the vote or other affirmative expression of a majority of the
      committee members qualified to vote with respect to such action. If a
      member of the committee is a Participant, he shall not participate in any
      decision which solely affects his own benefit under the Plan. For purposes
      of administering the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall choose a secretary
      who shall keep minutes of the committee's proceedings and all records and
      documents pertaining to the administration of the Plan. The secretary may
      execute any certificate or other written direction on behalf of the Plan
      Administrator. 

12.3   

Rights
      and Duties of the Plan Administrator.  The Plan Administrator
      shall administer the Plan and shall have all powers necessary to
      accomplish that purpose, including (but not limited to) the
      following: 

a. 

to
      construe, interpret and administer the
Plan; 

b. 

to
      make determinations required by the Plan, and to maintain records
      regarding Participants' benefits
hereunder; 

c. 

to
      compute and certify the amount and kinds of benefits payable to
      Participants, and to determine the time and manner in which such benefits
      are to be paid; 

d. 

to
      authorize all disbursements pursuant to the
  Plan; 

e. 

to
      maintain all the necessary records of the administration of the
      Plan; 

f. 

to
      make and publish such rules and procedures for the regulation of the Plan
      as are not inconsistent with the terms
  hereof; 

g. 

to
      designate to other individuals or entities from time to time the
      performance of any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder;
      and 

h. 

to
      hire agents, accountants, actuaries, consultants and legal counsel to
      assist in operating and administering the
Plan. 

The Plan
Administrator shall have the exclusive right to construe and interpret the Plan,
to decide all questions of eligibility for benefits and to determine the amount
of benefits, and its decisions on such matters shall be final and conclusive on
all parties. 

12.4 

Bond;
      Compensation .  The Plan Administrator and (if applicable)
      its members shall serve as such without bond and without compensation for
      services hereunder. 

13.           CLAIMS
PROCEDURE 

13.1 

Named
      Fiduciary .  The Plan Administrator is hereby designated
      as the named fiduciary under this
Plan. 

13.2   

Claims
      Procedures .  Any controversy or claim arising out of or
      relating to this Plan shall be filed with the Plan Administrator which
      shall make all determinations concerning such claim. Any decision by the
      Plan Administrator denying such claim shall be in writing and shall be
      delivered to all parties in interest in accordance with the notice
      provisions of Section 9.2 hereof. Such decision shall set forth the
      reasons for denial in plain language. Pertinent provisions of the Plan
      shall be cited and, where appropriate, an explanation as to how the
      Employee can perfect the claim will be provided. This notice of denial of
      benefits will be provided within 90 days of the Plan Administrator's
      receipt of the Employee's claim for benefits. If the Plan Administrator
      fails to notify the Employee of its decision regarding the claim, the
      claim shall be considered denied, and the Employee shall then be permitted
      to proceed with the appeal as provided in this
  Section. 

An
Employee who has been completely or partially denied a benefit shall be entitled
to appeal this denial of his/her claim by filing a written statement of his/her
position with the Plan Administrator no later than sixty (60) days after receipt
of the written notification of such claim denial. The Plan Administrator shall
schedule an opportunity for a full and fair review of the issue within thirty
(30) days of receipt of the appeal. The decision on review shall set forth
specific reasons for the decision, and shall cite specific references to the
pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based. 

Following
the review of any additional information submitted by the Employee, either
through the hearing process or otherwise, the Plan Administrator shall render a
decision on the review of the denied claim in the following manner: 

a. 

The
      Plan Administrator shall make its decision regarding the merits of the
      denied claim within 60 days following receipt of the request for review
      (or within 120 days after such receipt, in a case where there are special
      circumstances requiring extension of time for reviewing the appealed
      claim). The Plan Administrator shall deliver the decision to the claimant
      in writing. If an extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim is
      required because of special circumstances, written notice of the extension
      shall be furnished to the Employee prior to the commencement of the
      extension. If the decision on review is not furnished within the
      prescribed time, the claim shall be deemed denied on
    review. 

b. 

The
      decision on review shall set forth specific reasons for the decision, and
      shall cite specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which
      the decision is based. 

EXHIBIT
"A  

BELLSOUTH
SPLIT-DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE PLAN AGREEMENT 

This
Agreement is made effective as of January 1, 1998, by and between the Employer
and _________ (the "Participant"). 

WHEREAS,
the Employer and the Participant executed an agreement (the  Prior Agreement )
under the [Bellsouth Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan] [BellSouth
Corporation Senior Manager life Insurance Plan (the "Prior Plan");
and 

WHEREAS,
the Prior Plan has been amended and restated as the BellSouth Split-Dollar life
Insurance Plan (the  Plan  and 

WHEREAS,
in exchange for coverage under the Plan as amended and restated, the Participant
consents and agrees to the terms of the Plan, as amended and
restated; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises contained herein and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the Employer and the Participant hereby mutually covenant and
agree as follows: 

1. 

This
      Agreement shall constitute an amendment and restatement of the Prior
      Agreement and, as of the effective date of this Agreement, the Prior Plan
      and Prior Agreement shall be terminated and replaced by the Plan and this
      Agreement. 

2. 

The
      Policy subject to this Agreement is Policy number ___________, issued by
      Pacific Life Insurance Company (the  Replacement Policy"), which replaces
      the Replaced Policy. As of the effective date of this Agreement, no
      further benefits will be provided to the Participant or Employer under the
      Replaced Policy, and such Policy will be
  canceled. 

3. 

The
      Replaced Policy Cash Value shall be transferred directly to the
      Replacement Policy as of the effective date of this
    Agreement. 

4. 

The
      Coverage Amount shall be $____________ of [Single Life] [Survivorship]
      Coverage. 

5. 

The
      Premium Payment Years shall be ___________ consecutive Policy
      Years. 

6 

For
      each Policy Year beginning after 1998, the total Policy premium for each
      year which is a Premium Payment Year shall be $__________, and the
      Employer Premium shall equal such total Policy premium reduced by the
      Participant Premium payable by the Participant for such Policy
      Year. 

7. 

The
      Policy Owner for the Replacement Policy shall be the same as the Policy
      Owner for the Replaced Policy. 

8. 

The
      Participant agrees to pay the Participant Premium contribution as
      specified in the Plan, and consents to paying such amount to the Employer
      through regular payroll (or retirement income)
  deductions. 

9. 

The
      Participant has read and understands the provisions of the Plan, and
      agrees that all of the terms and conditions specified in the Plan are
      hereby incorporated by reference herein and form a part of this
      Agreement. 

10. 

Subject
      to the terms of the Plan, this Agreement shall not be amended or modified
      without the written consent of the Participant and the
      Employer. 

11. 

This
      Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
      Georgia. 

Date   

For the
      Employer   

Date   

Signature of
      Participant  

Address
      of Participant  

EXHIBIT
"B" 

BELLSOUTH
SPLIT-DOLLAR LIFE INSURANCE PLAN ASSIGNMENT 

This
Assignment is made by the undersigned Policy Owner effective January 1,
1998. 

DEFINITIONS:    

ASSIGNEE:  

BellSouth
      Corporation  

PARTICIPANT:  

POLICY OWNER:  

INSURED(S):  

INSURER:  

Pacific Life
      Insurance Company  

POLICY: 

Policy#________________
      issued by the Insurer. 

REPLACED
      POLICY:  

Policy#________________
      issued by the Insurer.  

SPLIT-DOLLAR
LIFE INSURANCE PLAN AGREEMENT (THE "AGREEMENT"): 

That
certain Agreement executed to be effective on January 1, 1998, between the
Participant and the Assignee. 

COVERAGE
AMOUNT: 

That
portion of the death benefit coverage under the Policy equal to
$______________. 

RECITALS : 

1. 

The
      benefits provided to the Policy Owner under the Policy replace those
      previously provided under the Replaced
Policy. 

2. 

Under
      the Agreement, the Assignee has agreed to assist the Policy Owner in the
      payment of premiums on the Policy issued by the
  Insurer. 

3. 

In
      consideration of such premium payments by the Assignee, the undersigned
      Policy Owner intends to grant the Assignee certain limited interests in
      the Policy. 

THEREFORE,
for value received, it is agreed: 

1. 

Assignment .  The
      Policy Owner hereby assigns, transfers, and sets over to the Assignee, its
      successors and assigns, the following specific rights in the Policy and
      subject to the following terms and
conditions: 

a. 

the
      sole right to make withdrawals or borrow against the cash value of the
      Policy, as provided in Sections 8.2a, 8.2d, and 8.3 of the
      Plan; 

b. 

the
      right to receive from the Insurer upon the death of the lnsured(s) the
      proceeds of the Policy in excess of the Coverage
  Amount; 

c. 

the
      sole right to surrender all or a portion of the Policy and receive the
      surrender value thereof, as provided in Sections 8.2a, 8.2d, and 8.3 of
      the Plan. 

2.            Retained
Rights .  Except as expressly provided in Section 1, the Policy
Owner retains all rights under the Policy including but not limited
to: 

a. 

the
      right to designate and change the beneficiary;
  and 

b. 

the
      right to elect any optional mode of settlement permitted by the Policy or
      Insurer, subject only to the Assignee's right in Section
      1.(b). 

3. 

Authorization .  For
      purposes of Sections 1 and 2, the signature of either the Assignee or the
      Policy Owner shall be sufficient. Both the Assignee and the Policy Owner
      acknowledge that between themselves, they are bound by the limitations of
      this Assignment and that the Insurer will recognize the signature of
      either. 

4. 

Insurer .  The
      Insurer is hereby authorized to recognize, and is fully protected in
      recognizing the claims of the Assignee to rights hereunder, without
      investigating the reasons for such action by the Assignee, or the validity
      or the amount of such claims, nor giving notice to the Policy Owner of
      such claims of rights or interest to exercise such rights. Insurer
      reserves the right to require signatures of both the Assignee and the
      Policy Owner to exercise any or all ownership rights, as is their normal
      procedure. 

5. 

Death
      Proceeds .  The Insurer shall pay to the Assignee that
      portion of the death benefit to which it is entitled. Payment by the
      Insurer of any or all of the death proceeds to the Assignee in reliance
      upon a signed authorization by any officer of the Assignee as to the share
      of death proceeds due it shall be a full discharge of the Insurer for such
      share and shall be binding on all parties claiming any interest in the
      Policy. 

6. 

Release of
      Assignment .  Upon payment to the Assignee of those
      amounts due to it under the terms of the Agreement, the Assignee shall
      execute a written release of this Assignment to the Insurer who may then
      treat the Owner of the Policy as the sole Policy Owner for all
      purposes. 

7. 

Assignment
      Controls .  In the event of any conflict between the
      provisions of this Assignment and provisions of the Agreement with respect
      to the rights of collateral assignment therein, the provisions of this
      Assignment shall prevail. 

8. 

Cancellation of Replaced
      Policy .  The Policy Owner agrees that no further benefits
      will be provided under the Replaced Policy, and that benefits provided
      under the Policy are in lieu of the benefits previously provided under the
      Replaced Policy. 

IN
TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the Policy Owner has executed this Assignment to be effective
January 1, 1998. 

_____________________________________ 

      Signature
of Policy Owner 

_____________________________________ 

      Date 

</EX-10.III>

<EX-12>
 31
 ex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

ex12.htm 

Exhibit 12 

AT T, INC. 

              COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED
CHARGES 

              Dollars in millions 

*All periods presented exclude
undistributed earnings on investments accounted for under the equity method as
well as Income From Discontinued Operations,  net of
tax in our Consolidated Statements of Income, which was from the sale of our
interest in the directory advertising business in Illinois and northwest
Indiana.  

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 32
 ex13.htm
 AT&T 2008 ANNUAL REPORT

ex13.htm 

Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

1    
                            Amounts in the above
      table have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
      accounting principles.  

2    
                            Our 2006 income
      statement amounts reflect results from BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth)
      and AT T Mobility LLC (AT T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless
      LLC, for the two days following the December 29, 2006 acquisition. Our
      2006 balance sheet and end-of-year metrics include 100% of BellSouth and
      AT T Mobility. Prior to the December 29, 2006 BellSouth acquisition,
      AT T Mobility was a joint venture in which we owned 60% and was
      accounted for under the equity method.   

3    
                            Our 2005 income
      statement amounts reflect results from AT T Corp. for the 43 days
      following the November 18, 2005 acquisition. Our 2005 balance sheet and
      end-of-year metrics include 100% of AT T Corp.   

4    
                            Our financial
      statements reflect results from our sold directory advertising business in
      Illinois and northwest Indiana as discontinued operations. The operational
      results and the gain associated with the sale of that business are
      presented in  Income from discontinued operations, net of
      tax.    

5    
                            The number presented
      represents 100% of AT T Mobility cellular/PCS customers. The 2004
      number includes customers from the acquisition of AT T Wireless
      Services, Inc.   

6    
                            In-region represents
      access lines serviced by our incumbent local exchange companies (in 22
      states since the BellSouth acquisition and in 13 states prior to that
      acquisition). Beginning in 2006, the number includes BellSouth lines in
      service.   

7    
                           
                               Broadband connections include
      in-region DSL lines, in-region U-verse high-speed Internet access,
      satellite broadband and 3G LaptopConnect
    cards.   

1 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

For ease
of reading, AT T Inc. is referred to as  we,   AT T  or the  Company 
throughout this document and the names of the particular subsidiaries and
affiliates providing the services generally have been omitted. AT T is a
holding company whose subsidiaries and affiliates operate in the communications
services industry both in the United States and internationally providing
wireless and wireline telecommunications services and equipment as well as
directory advertising and publishing services. You should read this discussion
in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes. A reference to a  Note  in this section refers to the accompanying Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the tables throughout this section,
percentage increases and decreases that equal or exceed 100% are not considered
meaningful and are denoted with a dash. 

RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS 

       Consolidated
Results   Our financial results are summarized in the table
below. We then discuss factors affecting our overall results for the past three
years. These factors are discussed in more detail in our  Segment Results 
section. We also discuss our expected revenue and expense trends for 2009 in the
 Operating Environment and Trends of the Business  section. 

We
completed our acquisition of BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth) on December 29,
2006. We thereby acquired BellSouth s 40% economic interest in AT T Mobility
LLC (AT T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC (Cingular), resulting in
100% ownership of AT T Mobility. Our consolidated results in 2006 include
BellSouth s and AT T Mobility s operational results for the final two days
of the year. Prior to the acquisition, we reported the income from our 60% share
of AT T Mobility as equity in net income. In accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP), operating results from BellSouth and
AT T Mobility prior to their respective acquisition dates are
excluded. 

Overview 

       Operating income   As
noted above, 2007 revenues and expenses reflect the addition of BellSouth s and
AT T Mobility s results while our 2006 results only include two days of
their results. Accordingly, the following discussion of changes in our revenues
and expenses is affected by these acquisitions. 

Our
operating income increased $2,659, or 13.0%, in 2008 and $10,116, or 98.3%, in
2007. Our operating income margin increased from 16.3% in 2006 to 17.2% in 2007
and to 18.6% in 2008. Operating income in 2008 increased primarily due to
continued growth in wireless service and data revenues along with a decrease in
the amortization of merger-related intangibles and increased in 2007 primarily
due to the acquisition of BellSouth. Reported results in 2008 include directory
revenue and expenses from directories published by BellSouth subsidiaries. In
accordance with GAAP, our reported results in 2007 did not include deferred
revenue of $964 and expenses of $308 from BellSouth directories published during
the 12-month period ending with the December 29, 2006 date we acquired
BellSouth. Had our 2007 directory results included this deferred revenue and
expenses, operating income would have increased $2,003 for 2008, as compared to
2007. 

Operating revenues  increased
$5,100, or 4.3%, in 2008 and $55,873, or 88.6%, in 2007. Revenues in 2008
reflect an increase in wireless subscribers and data revenues, primarily related
to Internet Protocol (IP) data, partially offset by the continued decline in
voice revenues. Increases in 2007 were primarily due to our acquisitions and to
continuing growth in wireless subscribers. As discussed above, purchase
accounting treatment for directories published 12 months prior to the BellSouth
acquisition also increased revenues in 2008 when compared to 2007. 

2 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Our
operating revenues also reflect the continued decline of our retail access lines
due to the dramatically declining overall economy and increased competition, as
customers continued to disconnect both primary and additional lines and switched
to wireless, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and cable offerings for voice
and data. While we lose the wireline voice revenues, we have the opportunity to
increase wireless service revenue should customers choose AT T Mobility as
their alternative provider. 

Operating expenses  increased
$2,441, or 2.5%, in 2008 and $45,757, or 86.7%, in 2007. The increase in 2008
was primarily due to higher equipment costs related to the successful launch of
the Apple iPhone 3G and increased sales of PDA devices, while the increase in
2007 was primarily due to merger integration costs and amortization expense on
intangible assets identified at the time of acquisition. Also increasing 2008
expenses were higher commissions and residuals from the growth in wireless,
severance associated with announced workforce reductions as well as
hurricane-related expenses affecting both the wireless and wireline segments.
Partially offsetting these increases were merger integration costs recognized in
2007 and not in 2008, and lower amortization expense on intangible assets in
2008. 

Interest expense  decreased
$117, or 3.3%, in 2008 and increased $1,664, or 90.3%, in 2007. Interest expense
remained relatively unchanged during 2008 with a decrease in our weighted
average interest rate and increases in interest charged during construction,
offset by an increase in our average debt balances. Future interest expense will
continue to reflect increased interest during construction related to preparing
2008 spectrum purchases for service. The increase in 2007 was primarily due to
higher average debt balances resulting from the inclusion of BellSouth and
AT T Mobility outstanding debt on our consolidated balance
sheet. 

Equity in net income of
affiliates   Equity in net income of affiliates increased $127,
or 18.4%, in 2008, primarily due to improved results from our investments in
Am rica M vil S.A. de C.V. (Am rica M vil), T lefonos de M xico, S.A. de C.V.
(Telmex) and Telmex Internacional, S.A.B. de C.V. (Telmex Internacional) offset
by foreign exchange adjustments. Equity in net income of affiliates decreased
$1,351 in 2007 as a result of the change in accounting for AT T Mobility
which moved Mobility s results from this line. Prior to the December 29, 2006
BellSouth acquisition (see Note 2), we accounted for our 60% economic
interest in AT T Mobility under the equity method since we shared control
equally with BellSouth. AT T Mobility is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of
AT T, and wireless results are reflected in operating revenues and expenses
in our consolidated statements of income. 

Other income (expense)       net   We had other
expense of $589 in 2008, and other income of $615 in 2007 and $393 in 2006.
Results for 2008 included losses of $467 related to asset impairments, $261 in
minority interest expense and $180 loss on the sale of merger-related
investments held under independent management which support certain benefit
plans (see Note 11). These losses were partially offset by a $121 gain on the
disposition of other non-strategic assets, $107 gain related to interest income,
$49 of income from leveraged leases and $41 of dividend income. 

Other
income for 2007 included gains of $409 related to a wireless spectrum license
exchange, $166 in interest income, $148 from the sale of administrative
buildings and other non-strategic assets, and $88 from other non-operating
activities. These gains were partially offset by $196 in minority interest
expense. Other income for 2006 included interest income of $377. There were no
other individually significant other income or expense transactions during
2006. 

Income taxes  increased $783,
or 12.5%, in 2008 and $2,728, or 77.4%, in 2007. The increase in income
taxes in 2008 was primarily due to higher operating income. Our effective tax
rate in 2008 was 35.4%, compared to 34.4% in 2007 and 32.4% in 2006. The
increase in our effective tax rate for 2008 was primarily due to an increase in
income before income taxes. 

The
increase in income taxes in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to higher
operating income reflecting the acquisition of BellSouth and its share of
AT T Mobility s operating results. The increase in our effective tax rate
for 2007 was primarily due to the consolidation of AT T Mobility and an
increase in income before income taxes. 

3 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Supplemental
Information 

      To
provide improved comparability versus previous results, below is a supplemental
table providing pro forma consolidated operating revenues for 2006, assuming the
closing date for the BellSouth acquisition was January 1, 2006, along with a
summary of how these 2006 pro forma numbers would have affected 2007 results.
The 2008 results are included to provide trend information but the comparisons
between 2008 and 2007 results are discussed in  Segment Results.  

Supplemental
Consolidated Operating Revenues Information 

Pro forma
wireless service growth in 2007 was driven by subscriber growth and strong
increases in data usage, including increased messaging, browsing, media bundles
and both laptop and smartphone connectivity. We have historically discussed our
wireless segment results on a basis that included 100% of AT T Mobility
results, and a detailed wireless service revenue discussion can be found in our
 Wireless Segment Results  section. 

The pro
forma voice revenue decline in 2007 is consistent with trends and is due to
access line declines reflecting competition and substitution of alternative
technologies, pricing pressures due to competition, anticipated shifts of
traffic by major consolidated carriers to their own networks and a continuing
decline in the number of AT T Corp. s (ATTC) mass-market customers, which
are composed of consumers and small businesses. 

Pro forma
data growth was led by an increase in IP data revenues of 13.3% in 2007, with
strength in high-speed Internet, managed Internet, Virtual Private Network (VPN)
and hosting services. Data transport service revenues were up 0.7% in 2007, and
packet-switched data revenues, which include frame relay and asynchronous
transfer mode (ATM) services, were down 7.0%, consistent with the industry trend
of customers switching to IP-based services from traditional circuit-based
services. 

Directory
results were lower in 2007 due to the purchase accounting treatment of
directories delivered by BellSouth s advertising and publishing businesses in
the 12 months prior to the merger (see Note 4). In accordance with GAAP, the
deferred revenues from these books were not included in the 2007 consolidated
directory revenues. Had those deferred revenues been included in 2007, directory
revenues would have increased by $964. The pro forma revenues for 2006 do not
reflect this purchase accounting treatment of deferred directory
revenues. 

Pro forma
other revenues decreased in 2007 due to our decision to de-emphasize sales of
lower-margin, stand-alone customer premises equipment. 

4 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Segment
Results 

Our
segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services
and are managed accordingly. As a result of our acquisitions of BellSouth and
ATTC, we revised our segment reporting to represent how we now manage our
business, restating prior periods to conform to the current segments. Our
operating segment results presented in Note 4 and discussed below for each
segment follow our internal management reporting. We analyze our various
operating segments based on segment income before income taxes. Each segment s
percentage of total segment operating revenue and income calculations is derived
from our segment results table in Note 4 and reflects amounts before
eliminations. We have four reportable segments: (1) wireless,
(2) wireline, (3) advertising   publishing and
(4) other. 

The  wireless
segment  accounted for approximately 39% of our 2008 total segment
operating revenues as compared to 35% in 2007 and 46% of our 2008 total segment
income as compared to 32% in 2007. This segment offers wireless voice and data
communications services across the United States. This segment reflects 100% of
the results reported by AT T Mobility, which was our wireless joint venture
with BellSouth prior to the December 29, 2006 acquisition and is now a
wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T. Prior to the acquisition, although we
analyzed AT T Mobility s revenues and expenses under the wireless segment,
we eliminated the wireless segment in our consolidated financial statements. In
our 2006 and prior consolidated financial statements we reported our 60%
proportionate share of AT T Mobility s results as equity in net income of
affiliates. 

The  wireline 
 segment
 accounted for approximately 55% of our 2008 total segment operating
revenues as compared to 59% in 2007 and 47% of our 2008 total segment income as
compared to 55% in 2007. This segment provides both retail and wholesale
landline communications services, including local and long-distance voice,
switched access, IP and Internet access data, messaging services, managed
networking to business customers, AT T U-verse SM  TV
service and satellite television services through our agency
agreements. 

The  advertising  
publishing segment  accounted for approximately 4% of our 2008 total
segment operating revenues as compared to 5% in 2007 and 7% of our 2008 total
segment income as compared to 9% in 2007. This segment includes our directory
operations, which publish Yellow and White Pages directories and sell
directory advertising, Internet-based advertising and local search. For 2007,
this segment includes 100% of the results of YELLOWPAGES.COM (YPC), which was a
joint venture with BellSouth prior to the December 29, 2006 acquisition and is
now a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T. 

Under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141,  Business Combinations 
(FAS 141), deferred revenue and expenses from BellSouth directories published
during the 12-month period ending with the December 29, 2006 acquisition date
were not recognized in 2007 consolidated results. Accordingly, our consolidated
revenue and expenses in 2007 related to directory operations were lower. Because
management assesses the performance of the segment including the revenue and
expenses associated with those directories, for segment reporting purposes, our
2007 advertising   publishing segment results include revenues of $964 and
expenses of $308, related to directories published prior to our acquisition of
BellSouth. These amounts are eliminated in our consolidated results (see Note
4). 

The  other
segment  accounted for approximately 2% of our 2008 total segment
operating revenues as compared to 1% in 2007 and less than 1% of our 2008 total
segment income as compared to 4% in 2007. This segment includes results from
Sterling Commerce, Inc. (Sterling), customer information services, payphone, and
all corporate and other operations. During 2008, we announced our intention to
discontinue our retail payphone operations. Additionally, this segment includes
our portion of the results from our international equity investments and charges
of $978 associated with our workforce reductions announced in 2008. Prior to
December 29, 2006, this segment also included our results from AT T Mobility
as equity in net income of affiliates, as discussed above. 

The
following tables show components of results of operations by segment. We discuss
significant segment results following each table. We discuss capital
expenditures for each segment in  Liquidity and Capital
Resources.  

5 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Wireless 

      Segment
Results 

1  

Minority
      interest is recorded as  Other Income (Expense)   Net  in the consolidated
      statements of income. 

Accounting
for AT T Mobility 

      The
wireless segment reflects 100% of the results reported by AT T Mobility,
which was our wireless joint venture with BellSouth prior to the December 29,
2006 acquisition, at which time it became a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T.
Prior to the BellSouth acquisition (see Note 2), we accounted for our 60%
economic interest in AT T Mobility under the equity method since we shared
control equally with BellSouth. This means that our 2006 consolidated results
included our 60% share of AT T Mobility s results in  Equity in net income
of affiliates  in our consolidated statements of income. Following the BellSouth
acquisition, AT T Mobility became a wholly-owned subsidiary and AT T
Mobility s results are now included as operating revenues and expenses in our
consolidated statements of income. Accordingly, results from this segment for
the last two days of 2006 were included in our operating revenues and expenses
and not in the  Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates  line. However, for
all the periods presented, the wireless segment reflects 100% of the results
reported by AT T Mobility based on the management of the
business. 

Dobson
Acquisition 

      In
November 2007, we acquired Dobson Communications Corporation (Dobson). Dobson
marketed wireless services under the Cellular One brand and had provided roaming
services to AT T subsidiaries since 1990. Dobson had 1.7 million subscribers
across 17 states, mostly in rural and suburban areas. Dobson was incorporated
into our wireless operations subsequent to its acquisition. 

Wireless
Customer and Operating Trends 

      As of
December 31, 2008, we served 77.0 million wireless customers, compared to 70.1
million at December 31, 2007, and 61.0 million at December 31, 2006.
Approximately 69% of our wireless customer net additions in 2008 were postpaid
customer additions. Contributing to our net additions and retail customer growth
was improvement in postpaid customer turnover (customer churn) levels due to our
strong network performance and attractive products and services offerings,
including the Apple iPhone. The improvement in churn levels benefited from
network and customer service improvements and continued high levels of
advertising. Gross customer additions were 21.4 million in 2008, 20.1 million in
2007 and 19.2 million in 2006. Postpaid customer gross additions increased
approximately 8.4% primarily due to attractive plan offerings and exclusive
product offerings such as the Apple iPhone, BlackBerry  Bold and unique quick
messaging devices. 

As the
wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth
will become increasingly dependent on our ability to offer innovative services,
which will encourage existing customers to upgrade their current services and
handsets and will attract customers from other providers, as well as on our
ability to minimize customer churn. Average service revenue per user/customer
(ARPU) increased approximately 1% compared to 2007 primarily due to increased
data services ARPU growth. ARPU from postpaid customers increased 3.7%
reflecting usage of more advanced handsets, such as the Apple iPhone 3G, by
these customers. In 2008, data services ARPU grew 33.8% compared to 2007. The
continued increase in data revenue was related to increased use of text
messaging, Internet access, e-mail and other data services. We expect continued
growth from data services as more customers purchase advanced handsets, such as
iPhone 3G, and laptop cards and as our third-generation network continues to
expand. The growth in data ARPU was partially offset by a decline in voice
service ARPU of 6.5% compared to 2007. The decline in voice service ARPU is the
result of a decrease in postpaid voice overage charges, increases in our Family
Talk  and reseller customers, which have lower ARPU than traditional postpaid
customers, lower roaming revenues due to acquisitions and rate negotiations as
part of roaming cost savings initiatives, slowing international growth and lower
regulatory cost recovery charges. We expect continued pressure on voice service
ARPU. 

6 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

In 2007,
data service ARPU grew 46.9% compared to 2006. The continued increase in data
revenue was related to increased use of text messaging, Internet access, e-mail
and other data services. The growth in data ARPU was partially offset by a
decline in voice service ARPU of 4.1% compared to 2006, reflecting a higher
percentage of prepaid and reseller customers, which provide significantly lower
ARPU than postpaid customers, and continued shifts to all-inclusive rate plans
that offer lower monthly charges. 

The
effective management of customer churn also is critical to our ability to
maximize revenue growth and to maintain and improve margins. Customer churn is
calculated by dividing the aggregate number of wireless customers who cancel
service during each month in a period by the total number of wireless customers
at the beginning of each month in that period. Our customer churn rate was 1.7%
in 2008, 1.7% in 2007 and 1.8% in 2006. The churn rate for postpaid customers
was 1.2% in 2008, down from 1.3% in 2007 and 1.5% in 2006. The decline in
postpaid churn reflects higher network quality and broader coverage, more
affordable rate plans as well as exclusive devices and free mobile-to-mobile
calling among our wireless customers. 

Wireless
Operating Results 

      Our
wireless segment operating income margin was 22.5% in 2008, 16.4% in 2007 and
12.2% in 2006. The higher margin in 2008 was primarily due to revenue growth of
$6,651, which exceeded our increase in operating expenses of $2,587, which
included a decrease in depreciation and amortization of $1,309. The higher
margin in 2007 was primarily due to revenue growth of $5,147, which exceeded our
increase in operating expenses of $2,699. 

Service  revenues are comprised
of local voice and data services, roaming, long-distance and other revenue.
Service revenues increased $5,732, or 14.8%, in 2008 and $4,890, or 14.5%, in
2007 and consisted of: 

Voice
      revenue increases of $2,076, or 6.6%, in 2008 and $2,135, or 7.3%, in
      2007. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in the number
      of average wireless customers of approximately 14%, partially offset by a
      decline in voice ARPU of 6.5%. The increase in 2007 was primarily due to
      an increase in the average number of wireless customers of approximately
      12%, partially offset by a decline in voice ARPU of 4.1%. Included in
      voice revenues for both periods were increases in long-distance and net
      roaming revenue due to increased international
  usage. 

Equipment  revenues increased
$919, or 22.9%, in 2008 and $257, or 6.9%, in 2007. The increase in both 2008
and 2007 was due to higher handset revenues reflecting increased gross customer
additions and customer upgrades to more advanced handsets. The increase in 2007
was partially offset by equipment discounts and rebate activity. 

Cost of services and equipment
sales  expenses increased $2,087, or 13.1%, in 2008 and $934, or 6.2%, in
2007. The 2008 and 2007 increases were primarily due to increased equipment
sales expense of $2,005 and $1,140, respectively, resulting from the overall
increase in sales as well as an increase in sales of higher-cost 3G devices, the
introduction of the Apple iPhone 3G (in 2008) and iPhone (in 2007) handsets as
well as an increase in the number of handset accessory sales. The 2008 per-unit
accessory cost decreased from 2007, while the 2007 per-unit accessory cost
increased from 2006. Total equipment costs continue to be higher than equipment
revenues due to the sale of handsets below cost, through direct sales sources,
to customers who committed to one-year or two-year contracts or in connection
with other promotions. 

7 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Excluding
equipment sales, costs of services remained relatively flat in 2008 as the
result of higher regulatory fees of $204 due to revenue growth, reseller costs
of $145, and interconnect and other costs of $141, substantially offset by lower
incollect roaming costs of $249, network system costs of $132 and long-distance
costs of $27. 

The $145
increase in reseller costs is attributable to higher license, maintenance and
other reseller costs partly offset by cost reductions from the migration of
network usage from the T-Mobile USA (T-Mobile) network in California and Nevada
to our networks in these states. Our remaining purchase commitment to T-Mobile
for this transition period was $42 and $51 at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

The $141
increase in interconnect and other costs primarily related to increased usage
and integration costs related to Dobson. The $132 decrease in network system
costs is the result of benefits from network and systems integration and
cost-reduction initiatives of $218, and lower data processing and payroll costs
of $109, partly offset by incremental rents related to Dobson and general
building expense increases of $124, and hurricane and other incremental network
costs of $99. 

Cost of
services declined $206 in 2007. This decline was due to lower interconnect,
roaming and long-distance expenses related to network and systems integration
and cost-reduction initiatives, as well as cost reductions from the migration of
network usage from the T-Mobile network. These decreases were partially offset
by higher network usage, with increases in total system minutes of use of 13.5%,
and associated network system expansion and increased network equipment
costs. 

Selling, general and administrative
 expenses increased $1,809, or 14.4%, in 2008 and $1,148, or 10.0%, in
2007. 

The
increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2008 was due to the
following: 

Increases
      of $702 in customer costs and other expenses primarily due to increased
      customer service costs of $159, customer maintenance costs of $240, bad
      debt expense of $49 and other support costs of $298, partially offset by a
      decline of $44 in billing expenses. 

Increases
      in selling expenses of $362 due to increases in commissions expense, sales
      and marketing expenses partly attributable to the introduction of the
      Apple iPhone 3G. 

Increases
      in upgrade commission and residual expenses of $745 due to higher handset
      upgrade volume and commission
rates. 

The
increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007 was due to the
following: 

Increases
      in selling expenses of $572 due to increases in sales and advertising
      expenses and Apple iPhone related costs, partially offset by a decrease in
      net commission expense, which was consistent with the increase in prepaid
      plan sales as a percentage of total retail
  sales. 

Increases
      of $572 in customer maintenance and other expenses primarily due to
      increased bad debt expense of $338 and other support costs of $234,
      partially offset by a decline of $191 in billing expenses, lower
      information technology (IT) and customer service
  expenses. 

Increases
      in upgrade commission and residual expenses of $195 due to increased
      prepaid plan costs and higher handset upgrade
  activity. 

Depreciation and amortization 
decreased $1,309, or 18.5%, in 2008 and increased $617, or 9.5%, in 2007. The
decrease in 2008 was due to lower amortization expense of $770 and lower
depreciation expense of $539. The decrease in amortization expense is
attributable to declining amortization of identifiable intangible assets, which
are principally amortized using the sum-of-the-months-digits method of
amortization, partially offset by incremental amortization on Dobson intangible
assets acquired by AT T Mobility. Depreciation expense decreased $695 due to
certain network assets becoming fully depreciated and decreased $612 due to Time
Division Multiple Access (TDMA) assets being depreciated on an accelerated basis
through 2007. These decreases were partly offset by incremental depreciation on
capital assets placed in service during 2008. 

The
increase in 2007 was primarily due to an increase of $1,522 in amortization of
identifiable intangible assets related to our acquisition of BellSouth s 40%
ownership interest, partially offset by declining amortization of identifiable
AT T Wireless Services, Inc. intangible assets acquired by AT T Mobility
in 2004. Expenses also increased due to accelerated depreciation on TDMA assets
and ongoing capital spending for network upgrades and expansion. The 2007
increase was partially offset by decreases in depreciation expense of $905 due
to certain network assets becoming fully depreciated and purchase accounting
adjustments on certain network assets related to acquiring BellSouth s 40%
ownership interest of AT T Mobility. 

8 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Wireline 

      Segment
Results 

Operating
Margin Trends 

      Our
wireline segment operating income margin was 16.0% in 2008, compared to 16.7% in
2007 and 14.3% in 2006. Results for 2008 reflect revenue declines that exceeded
expense declines. Our wireline segment operating income decreased $839, or 7.0%,
in 2008 and increased $3,792 in 2007 primarily reflecting the addition of
BellSouth s operating results in 2007. Our operating income continued to be
pressured by access line declines due to increased competition, as customers
disconnected both primary and additional lines and switched to alternative
technologies, such as wireless, VoIP and cable for voice and data. The
deteriorating economy during 2008 also adversely affected our customers  ability
to purchase and maintain both wireline and wireless services. Our strategy is to
offset these line losses by increasing non-access-line-related revenues from
customer connections for data, video and voice. Additionally, we have the
opportunity to increase wireless segment revenues if customers choose AT T
Mobility as an alternative provider. As noted above, 2007 revenues and expenses
reflect the addition of BellSouth s results while our 2006 results only include
two days of their results. Accordingly, the following discussion of changes in
our revenues and expenses is affected by this acquisition. 

Voice  revenues decreased
$3,432, or 8.2%, in 2008 primarily due to declining demand for traditional voice
services and increased $7,916, or 23.5%, in 2007. Included in voice revenues are
revenues from local voice, long-distance and local wholesale services. Voice
revenues do not include VoIP revenues, which are included in data
revenues. 

Local
      voice revenues decreased $1,887, or 7.7%, in 2008 and increased $6,831, or
      38.4%, in 2007. The decrease in 2008 was driven primarily by loss of
      revenue of $1,230 from a decline in access lines and by $422 from a
      decline from ATTC s mass-market customers. The increase in 2007 was
      primarily due to the acquisition of BellSouth, which increased local voice
      revenues approximately $8,040. Local voice revenues also increased in 2007
      due to pricing increases for regional telephone service, custom calling
      features and inside wire maintenance agreements. Local voice revenues in
      2007 were negatively impacted by expected declines in revenues from ATTC s
      mass-market customers and from customer demand-related declines for
      calling features and inside wire agreements. We expect our local voice
      revenue to continue to be negatively affected by increased competition
      from alternative technologies, the disconnection of additional lines and
      the deteriorating economy. 

Long-distance
      revenues decreased $1,195, or 7.9%, in 2008 and increased $761, or 5.3%,
      in 2007 primarily due to the acquisition of BellSouth, which increased
      long-distance revenues approximately $2,075. The decrease in 2008 was
      primarily due to a net decrease in demand for long-distance service, due
      to expected declines in the number of ATTC s mass-market customers, which
      decreased revenues $677 and decreased demand from global and consumer
      customers, which decreased revenues
$532. 

Local
      wholesale revenues decreased $350, or 18.7%, in 2008 and increased $324,
      or 20.9%, in 2007. The decrease in 2008 was primarily due to the declining
      number of competitive providers using local wholesale lines. However, this
      declining revenue trend stabilized in the second half of 2008 since
      industry consolidation and local wholesale line loss has slowed. The
      increase in 2007 was primarily due to the acquisition of BellSouth, which
      increased local wholesale revenues approximately $615. Wholesale revenue
      decreased in 2007 due to industry consolidation as certain customers moved
      more traffic to their own networks. 

9 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Data  revenues increased
$1,277, or 5.3%, in 2008 and increased $5,758, or 31.4%, in 2007. Data revenues
accounted for approximately 36% of wireline operating revenues in 2008, 34% in
2007 and 32% in 2006. Data revenues include transport, IP and packet-switched
data services. 

IP data
revenues increased $1,537, or 16.1%, in 2008 primarily due to growth in consumer
and business broadband, VPNs and managed Internet services, and increased
$3,080, or 47.6%, in 2007 primarily due to the acquisition of BellSouth, which
increased IP data approximately $2,235. Broadband high-speed Internet access
increased IP data revenues $498 in 2008. The increase in broadband revenues was
partially offset by the decline in revenue due to the renegotiation of our
Yahoo! agreement which took effect April 2008. VPNs increased $477 and various
other IP data services such as U-verse video and dedicated Internet access
services contributed $535 to the increase in 2008. The increase in IP data
revenues in 2008 and 2007 reflects continued growth in the customer base and
migration from other traditional circuit-based services. 

Our
transport services increased $163, or 1.4%, in 2008, primarily due to continuing
volume growth in Ethernet (types of high-capacity switched lines), ISDN and
international private lines. These increases were partially offset by declines
in usage-based transport services used by our largest business customers. In
2007, transport services revenues increased $2,640, or 29.7%, due to the
acquisition of BellSouth. 

Our
traditional circuit-based services, which include frame relay, asynchronous
transfer mode and managed packet services, decreased $423, or 14.1%, in 2008.
This decrease is primarily due to lower demand as customers continue to shift to
IP-based technology such as VPNs, broadband and managed Internet services. We
expect these traditional services to continue to decline as a percentage of our
overall data revenues. In 2007, circuit-based services revenues increased $38,
or 1.3%, primarily due to the acquisition of BellSouth, which increased
circuit-based services revenues $265. 

Other  operating revenues
increased $426, or 7.2%, in 2008 and $436, or 8.0%, in 2007. Major items
included in other operating revenues are integration services and customer
premises equipment, government-related services and outsourcing, which account
for more than 60% of total revenue for all periods. Equipment sales and related
network integration and management services increased $260 in 2008, driven by an
increase in management services, and decreased $274 in 2007 primarily due to
less emphasis on the sale of lower-margin equipment. Governmental professional
services revenue increased $100 in 2008 driven by growth across various
contracts. Revenue also decreased by $70 in 2007 due to the recognition of
intellectual property license fees in 2006 that did not recur in 2007. More than
offsetting these declines in 2007 was incremental revenue from our acquisition
of BellSouth. 

Cost of sales  expenses
increased $911, or 2.9%, in 2008 and $3,630, or 13.3%, in 2007. Cost of sales
consists of costs we incur in order to provide our products and services,
including costs of operating and maintaining our networks and personnel costs,
such as salary, wage and bonus accruals. Costs in this category include our
repair technicians and repair services, certain network planning and engineering
expenses, operator services, IT and property taxes related to elements of our
network. Pension and postretirement costs, net of amounts capitalized as part of
construction labor, are also included to the extent that they are associated
with these employees. 

Cost of
sales in 2008 increased due to the following: 

Higher
      nonemployee-related expenses, such as contract services, agent commissions
      and materials and supplies costs, of
$1,056. 

Salary
      and wage merit increases, other bonus accruals and higher employee levels,
      which increased compensation expenses by $423 and increased medical and
      other benefits by $239. 

Higher
      cost of equipment sales and related network integration services of $60 in
      2008 primarily due to increased U-verse customers partially offset by
      reductions due to less emphasis on sales of lower-margin
      equipment. 

10 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Partially
offsetting these increases, cost of sales in 2008 decreased due to: 

Lower
      traffic compensation expenses (for access to another carrier s network) of
      $633 primarily due to reduced portal fees from renegotiation of our
      agreement with Yahoo!, continued migration of long-distance calls onto our
      network and a lower volume of calls from ATTC s declining national
      mass-market customer base. 

Lower
      net pension and postretirement cost of $387, primarily due to changes in
      our actuarial assumptions, including the increase of our discount rate
      from 6.00% to 6.50% (a decrease to expense) and favorable prior-year
      investment returns on plan assets resulting in a decrease in the
      recognition of net losses from prior
years. 

In
addition to the impact of the BellSouth acquisition, cost of sales in 2007
increased due to the following: 

Higher
      nonemployee-related expenses, such as contract services, agent commissions
      and materials and supplies costs, of
$605. 

Salary
      and wage merit increases and other bonus accruals of
  $165. 

Partially
offsetting these increases, cost of sales in 2007 decreased due to: 

Lower
      traffic compensation expenses (for access to another carrier s network) of
      $831 primarily due to migration of long-distance calls onto our network
      and a lower volume of calls from ATTC s declining national mass-market
      customer base. 

Lower
      net pension and postretirement cost of $398, primarily due to changes in
      our actuarial assumptions, including the increase of our discount rate
      from 5.75% to 6.00% (a decrease to expense) and favorable investment
      returns on plan assets resulting in a decrease in the recognition of net
      losses from prior years. 

Lower
      cost of equipment sales and related network integration services of $300,
      primarily due to less emphasis on sales of lower-margin equipment. Costs
      associated with equipment for large-business customers typically are
      greater than costs associated with services that are provided over
      multiple years. 

Selling, general and administrative
 expenses decreased $1,535, or 10.1%, in 2008 and increased $2,954, or
24.2%, in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist of our
provision for uncollectible accounts; advertising costs; sales and marketing
functions, including our retail and wholesale customer service centers;
centrally managed real estate costs, including maintenance and utilities on all
owned and leased buildings; credit and collection functions; and corporate
overhead costs, such as finance, legal, human resources and external affairs.
Pension and postretirement costs are also included to the extent that they
relate to those employees. 

Selling,
general and administrative expenses in 2008 decreased due to the
following: 

Lower
      other wireline support costs of $616 primarily due to higher advertising
      costs incurred in 2007 for brand advertising and re-branding related to
      the BellSouth acquisition. 

Lower
      net pension and postretirement cost of $231, primarily due to changes in
      our actuarial assumptions, including the increase of our discount rate
      from 6.00% to 6.50% (a decrease to expense) and favorable prior-year
      investment returns on plan assets resulting in a decrease in the
      recognition of net losses from prior
years. 

Lower
      compensation expenses primarily reflecting shifts of force levels to cost
      of sales functions of $420 with related declines in medical and other
      benefits by $210. 

Partially
offsetting these decreases, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2008
increased due to: 

Higher
      nonemployee-related expenses, such as contract services, agent commissions
      and materials and supplies costs, of
$79. 

Higher
      provision for uncollectible accounts primarily related to our business and
      wholesale customers of $35. 

In
addition to the impact of the BellSouth acquisition, selling, general and
administrative expenses in 2007 increased due to the following: 

Salary
      and wage merit increases and other bonus accruals of
  $102. 

Higher
      provision for uncollectible accounts of
$80. 

11 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Partially
offsetting these increases, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007
decreased due to: 

Lower
      net pension and postretirement cost of $243, primarily due to changes in
      our actuarial assumptions, including the increase of our discount rate
      from 5.75% to 6.00% (a decrease to expense) and favorable investment
      returns on plan assets resulting in a decrease in the recognition of net
      losses from prior years. 

Lower
      employee levels, which decreased expenses, primarily salary and wages, by
      $222. 

Lower
      nonemployee-related expenses, such as contract services, agent commissions
      and materials and supplies costs, of
$148. 

Depreciation and amortization 
expenses decreased $266, or 2%, in 2008. We had an increase of $3,734, or 38.6%,
in 2007 primarily due to higher depreciable and amortizable asset bases as a
result of the acquisition of BellSouth in 2006. The relative stability in 2008
is a result of decreasing intangible amortization partially offsetting increased
depreciation resulting from capital additions. 

Supplemental
Information 

Telephone,
Wired Broadband and Video Connections Summary 

      Our
switched access lines and other services provided by our local exchange
telephone subsidiaries at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are shown below and
trends are addressed throughout this segment discussion. 

1
 Represents access lines served by AT T s ILECs and
affiliates. 

         2    Prior
period amounts restated to conform to current period reporting
methodology. 

3
       Competitive local exchange carriers
  (CLECs). 

4
       Revenue from retail payphone lines is reported in the Other
      segment. We are in the process of ending our retail payphone
      operations. 

5
       Total wired broadband connections include DSL, U-verse high-speed
      Internet access and satellite
broadband. 

6
       Satellite service includes connections under our agency and resale
      agreements. 

7
       Amounts shown include BellSouth s access lines in service after the
      December 29, 2006 BellSouth
acquisition. 

12 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Advertising
  Publishing 

Segment
Results 

Accounting
Impacts From the BellSouth Acquisition 

      FAS 141
requires that BellSouth deferred revenue and expenses from directories published
during the 12-month period ending with the December 29, 2006 acquisition date
not be included in our consolidated results. However, for management reporting
purposes we continued to amortize these balances over the life of the directory
(typically 12 months). Thus, for segment disclosure purposes, our advertising
  publishing segment results included revenue of $964 and expenses of $308
in 2007. See Note 4 for a discussion of FAS 141. 

Operating
Results 

      Our
advertising   publishing segment operating income margin was 31.2% in
2008, 31.8% in 2007 and 52.8% in 2006. The decrease in the segment operating
income margin in 2008 was primarily the result of decreased operating revenues.
The decrease in the segment operating income margin in 2007 was primarily due to
the addition of BellSouth s operating results, including the amortization of
BellSouth s customer lists acquired as a part of the acquisition. 

Operating revenues  decreased
$349, or 6.0%, in 2008 largely driven by continuing declines in print revenue of
$453 and lower sales agency revenue of approximately $113 due to the sale of the
independent line of business segment of the L.M. Berry Company. This decrease
was partially offset by increased Internet advertising revenue of $196. In 2007,
operating revenues increased $2,166, or 58.8%, primarily due to the addition of
BellSouth s operating results, which increased operating revenues approximately
$2,220 in 2007. This increase was largely driven by print advertising revenue of
$1,859 and Internet advertising revenue of $200. 

Operating expenses  decreased
$203, or 5.1%, in 2008 largely driven by decreased depreciation and amortization
of $135 resulting from use of an accelerated method of amortization for the
customer list acquired as part of the BellSouth acquisition, and lower employee,
professional and contract related expenses. These expense decreases were
partially offset by increased YELLOWPAGES.COM expansion costs. In 2007,
operating expenses increased $2,250 primarily due to the addition of BellSouth s
operating results, which increased total operating expenses by approximately
$2,110 in 2007. 

Other 

      Segment
Results 

Our other
segment operating results consist primarily of Sterling, customer information
services (primarily operator services and payphone), corporate and other
operations. Sterling provides business-integration software and
services. 

13 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Operating revenues  decreased
$186, or 8.3%, in 2008 and increased $346, or 18.4%, in 2007. The decrease in
2008 is primarily due to reduced revenues from our operator services and our
retail payphone operations. We are in the process of ending our retail payphone
operations. The increase in 2007 is primarily due to the addition of BellSouth s
other operations and increased operating revenue at Sterling partially offset by
decreased revenues from our retail payphone operations. 

Operating expenses  increased
$889, or 43.6%, in 2008 and $276, or 15.6%, in 2007. The increase in 2008 was
primarily due to charges of $978 associated with our workforce reductions
announced in 2008, primarily employees in non-customer-facing areas of the
business as a result of the restructure of our operations from a collection of
regional companies to a single national approach. This was partially offset by
reduction in reserves held at our captive insurance company and by decreased
operating expenses from our operator services and retail payphone operations.
The increase in 2007 was primarily due to the addition of BellSouth s other
operations and increased operating expenses at Sterling partially offset by
decreased expense from our retail payphone operations. 

Prior to
the December 29, 2006 close of the BellSouth acquisition, our other segment
included our 60% proportionate share of AT T Mobility results as equity in
net income of affiliates. As a result of the BellSouth acquisition, we own 100%
of AT T Mobility and its results for the final two days of 2006 and for the
year 2007 have been excluded from equity in net income of affiliates in this
segment and on our consolidated statements of income. 

Our other
segment also includes our equity investments in international companies, the
income from which we report as equity in net income of affiliates. Our earnings
from foreign affiliates are sensitive to exchange-rate changes in the value of
the respective local currencies. Our foreign investments are recorded under
GAAP, which include adjustments for the purchase method of accounting and
exclude certain adjustments required for local reporting in specific countries.
Our equity in net income of affiliates by major investment is listed
below: 

Equity in net income of
affiliates  increased $137 in 2008. Equity in net income in Am rica M vil
increased $88 in 2008 primarily due to improved operating results. Equity in net
income in Telmex and Telmex Internacional increased $59 reflecting lower
depreciation and tax expenses, and improved operating results. 

OPERATING
ENVIRONMENT AND TRENDS OF THE BUSINESS 

2009 Revenue
Trends   We expect a challenging operating environment in 2009
due to the continuing economic recession, increasing competition and changes at
the federal government level. Despite this environment, we expect a modest
expansion of our operating revenues in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting
continuing growth in our wireless and broadband/data services. We expect our
primary driver of growth to be wireless, especially in sales and increased use
of advanced handsets including the Apple iPhone 3G, and that all our major
customer categories will continue to increase their use of Internet-based
broadband/data services. We expect revenue growth will also reflect the
increased information and technology services to be provided under our
agreements with IBM. We expect continuing declines in traditional access lines
but offsets in growth in broadband and video services. We expect solid growth in
broadband revenues as customers continue to choose higher-speed services. We
expect to continue to expand our U-verse service offerings in 2009. 

2009 Expense
Trends   Our major merger   integration projects are
now largely completed. However, given our expected challenging operating
environment for 2009, we will continue to focus intensely on cost-control
measures. We expect our operating income margin to be stable excluding pressure
from our pension and retiree benefit costs. We expect our pension and retiree
benefit costs to increase significantly due to our accounting policy for
handling substantial investment losses in 2008 on our retirement plans  assets
(see  Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates ). We do not expect
significant pension funding requirements in 2009. Expenses related to growth
initiatives (see  Expected Growth Areas ) will apply some pressure to our
operating income margin. 

14 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Market
Conditions   During 2008, the securities and mortgage markets
and the banking system in general experienced significant declines in value and
liquidity. The U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve
System and various other regulators have worked together to adopt plans to
restore liquidity and stability to the securities, mortgage and banking systems.
Although we have issued short-term and long-term debt during this economic
decline, the U.S. government has provided capital to financial institutions and
has enabled access to short-term borrowings for companies with high credit
ratings. We are not yet able to determine the outcome of these
plans. 

Included
on our consolidated balance sheets are assets held by benefit plans for the
payment of future benefits. The losses associated with the securities markets
declines during 2008 are not expected to have an impact on the ability of our
benefit plans to pay benefits. We do not expect to make significant funding
contributions to our pension plans in 2009. However, because our pension plans
are subject to funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), a continued weakness in the markets could
require us to make contributions to the pension plans in order to maintain
minimum funding requirements as established by ERISA. In addition, our policy on
recognizing losses on investments in the pension and other postretirement plans
will accelerate the recognition of losses in 2009 earnings (see  Significant
Accounting Policies and Estimates ). 

The
ongoing weaknesses in the general economy and in the securities, credit and
mortgage markets are also affecting portions of our customer and supplier bases
although, at this time, we are unable to quantify the effects. We are seeing
lower demand for our services from residential wireline customers. Although
business revenues remained relatively stable this past year, we experienced some
softening of demand late in 2008 for usage-based services, such as voice and
transport. Our print directory revenues also declined during 2008 as the economy
continued to weaken. Some of our suppliers also are experiencing increased
financial and operating costs and one large telecom equipment supplier recently
declared bankruptcy. As of year-end, these negative trends had been offset by
continued growth in our wireless business. Our wireless growth reflects both an
increased demand for advanced services, as evidenced by our successful launch of
the iPhone 3G and other advanced devices, and increased sales of other advanced
handsets, as well as a shift in demand from our traditional wireline services.
Should the economy continue to deteriorate, we likely will experience pressure
on pricing and margins as we compete for both wireline and wireless customers
who will have less discretionary income. We also may experience difficulty
purchasing equipment in a timely manner or maintaining and replacing warranteed
equipment from our suppliers. 

OPERATING
ENVIRONMENT OVERVIEW 

      AT T
subsidiaries operating within the U.S. are subject to federal and state
regulatory authorities. AT T subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are
subject to the jurisdiction of national and supranational regulatory authorities
in the markets where service is provided, and regulation is generally limited to
operational licensing authority for the provision of services to enterprise
customers. 

In the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), Congress established a national
policy framework intended to bring the benefits of competition and investment in
advanced telecommunications facilities and services to all Americans by opening
all telecommunications markets to competition and reducing or eliminating
regulatory burdens that harm consumer welfare. However, since the Telecom Act
was passed, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and some state
regulatory commissions have maintained certain regulatory requirements that were
imposed decades ago on our traditional wireline subsidiaries when they operated
as legal monopolies. Where appropriate, we are pursuing additional legislative
and regulatory measures to reduce regulatory burdens that inhibit our ability to
compete more effectively and offer services wanted and needed by our customers.
For example, we are supporting regulatory and legislative efforts that would
offer new video entrants a streamlined process for bringing new video services
to market and for offering more timely competition to traditional cable
television providers. In addition, states representing a majority of our local
service access lines have adopted legislation that enables new video entrants to
acquire a single statewide or state-approved franchise (as opposed to the need
to acquire hundreds or even thousands of municipal-approved franchises) to offer
competitive video services. We also are supporting efforts to update and improve
regulatory treatment for retail services. Passage of legislation is uncertain
and depends on many factors. 

Our
wireless operations operate in robust competitive markets, but are likewise
subject to substantial governmental regulation. Wireless communications
providers must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications services at
specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply
with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the
FCC. While wireless communications providers  prices and service offerings are
generally not subject to state regulation, an increasing number of states are
attempting to regulate or legislate various aspects of wireless services, such
as in the area of consumer protection. Additionally, we have noted our
opposition to proposals to impose extreme versions of  net neutrality  open
access regulation on wireless providers. It is widely recognized that the
wireless industry in the United States is characterized by innovation,
differentiation, declining prices and extensive competition among handset
manufacturers, service providers and applications and that additional broadband
regulation and new wholesale requirements are unnecessary and counterproductive
and will discourage new investment and may be appropriate only in the case of
market failure. 

15 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Expected
Growth Areas 

      We expect
our wireless services and data wireline products to remain the most significant
portion of our business and have also discussed trends affecting the segments in
which we report results for these products (see  Wireless Segment Results  and
 Wireline Segment Results ). Over the next few years we expect an increasing
percentage of our growth to come from: (1) our wireless service and (2)
data/broadband, through existing and new services. We expect that our previous
acquisitions will enable us to strengthen the reach and sophistication of our
network facilities, increase our large-business customer base and enhance the
opportunity to market wireless services to that customer base. Whether, or the
extent to which, growth in these areas will offset declines in other areas of
our business is not known. 

Wireless   Wireless
is our fastest-growing revenue stream and we expect to deliver continued revenue
growth in the coming years. We believe that we are in a growth period of
wireless data usage and that there are substantial opportunities available for
next-generation converged services that combine wireless, broadband, voice and
video. 

Our
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System/High-Speed Downlink Packet Access 3G
network technology covers most major metropolitan areas of the U.S. This
technology provides superior speeds for data and video services, and it offers
operating efficiencies by using the same spectrum and infrastructure for voice
and data on an IP-based platform. Our wireless networks also rely on digital
transmission technologies known as GSM, General Packet Radio Services and
Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution for data communications. As of December
31, 2008, we served 77 million customers. 

As the
wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth
will become increasingly dependent on our ability to offer innovative services
that will encourage existing customers to upgrade their services, either by
adding new types of services, such as data enhancements, or through increased
use of existing services, such as through equipment upgrades. These innovative
services should attract customers from other providers, as well as minimize
customer churn. We intend to accomplish these goals by continuing to expand our
network coverage, improve our network quality and offer a broad array of
products and services, including exclusive devices such as the Apple iPhone 3G
and free mobile-to-mobile calling among our wireless customers. Minimizing
customer churn is critical to our ability to maximize revenue growth and to
maintain and improve our operating margins. 

U-verse Services   We
are continuing to expand our deployment of U-verse high-speed broadband and TV
services. As of December 31, 2008, we have passed approximately 17 million
living units (constructed housing units as well as platted housing lots) and are
marketing the services to almost 65 percent of those units. Our deployment
strategy is to enter each new area on a limited basis in order to ensure that
all operating and back-office systems are functioning successfully and then
expand within each as we continue to monitor these systems. In these expansions,
we expect to continue to use contracted outside labor in addition to our
employees as installers; our rate of expansion will be slowed if we cannot hire
and train an adequate number of qualified contractors and technicians to keep
pace with customer demand or if we cannot obtain all required local building
permits in a timely fashion. We also continue to work with our vendors on
improving, in a timely manner, the requisite hardware and software technology.
Our deployment plans could be delayed if we do not receive required equipment
and software on schedule. 

We
believe that our U-verse TV service is subject to federal oversight as a  video
service  under the Federal Communications Act. However, some cable providers and
municipalities have claimed that certain IP services should be treated as a
traditional cable service and therefore subject to the applicable state and
local cable regulation. Certain municipalities have delayed our request or have
refused us permission to use our existing right-of-ways to deploy or activate
our U-verse-related services and products, resulting in litigation. Pending
negotiations and current or threatened litigation involving municipalities could
delay our deployment plans in those areas. In July 2008, the U.S. District Court
for Connecticut affirmed its October 2007 ruling that AT T s U-verse TV
service is a cable service in Connecticut. We have appealed that decision on the
basis that state legislation rendered the case moot. If courts having
jurisdiction where we have significant deployments of our U-verse services were
to decide that federal, state and/or local cable regulation were applicable to
our U-verse services, it could have a material adverse effect on the cost,
timing and extent of our deployment plans. 

16 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

REGULATORY
DEVELOPMENTS 

Set forth
below is a summary of the most significant developments in our regulatory
environment during 2008. While these issues, for the most part, apply only to
certain subsidiaries in our wireline segment, the words  we,   AT T  and
 our  are used to simplify the discussion. The following discussions are
intended as a condensed summary of the issues rather than as a precise legal
description of all of these specific issues. 

International
Regulation   Our subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are subject
to the jurisdiction of regulatory authorities in the market where service is
provided. Our licensing, compliance and advocacy initiatives in foreign
countries primarily enable the provision of enterprise (i.e., large business)
services. AT T is engaged in multiple efforts with foreign regulators to
open markets to competition, reduce network costs and increase our scope of
fully authorized network services and products. 

Federal
Regulation    A summary of
significant 2008 Federal regulatory developments follows. 

Wireless 

       Wireless Spectrum
Auction   In March 2008, the FCC announced that we were the
winning bidder of 227 B Block 700 MHz Band wireless spectrum licenses in an
auction conducted by the FCC. Accordingly, in April 2008, we paid the FCC
$6,136, which was in addition to the $500 deposit that we provided to the FCC at
the start of the auction. This purchase was funded using cash from operations
and debt. In April 2008, we submitted our license application to the FCC,
requesting that the FCC grant the wireless licenses on which we were the high
bidder. The FCC granted the licenses on January 6, 2009. We will use this
spectrum as we build out our network for next generation wireless
services. 

Order on Recommendations of the
Hurricane Katrina Panel  In October 2007, the FCC issued an order that was
intended to improve the reliability, interoperability and recovery of
telecommunications in future disasters. The order required carriers to maintain
backup power at certain points in the network, such as cell sites and remote
terminals. In February 2008, the D.C. Circuit granted a stay of the effective
date of the Katrina Order's backup power rules, pending review of a filed
appeal. In November 2008, the FCC asked the court to dismiss the appeal as moot
and further indicated that it would begin a new rulemaking proceeding to
establish revised backup power rules. To date, the court has not acted on the
FCC s request. 

E911 Order   In
September 2007, the FCC adopted an order (the E911 Order) that would have
substantially increased accuracy requirements in connection with providing the
location of a wireless caller to dispatchers of 911 emergency services.
Compliance with interim accuracy benchmarks would have been required in March
2009. 

Under FCC
rules, carriers are required to attempt to deliver location data to Public
Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) when callers dial 911. We use a network-based
location solution that employs triangulation to estimate the location of the
caller. Location data for this network-based solution must be accurate within
300 meters on 95 percent of all calls and within 100 meters on 67 percent of all
calls. The current rules permit these percentages to be calculated based on all
calls, network-wide, for purposes of measuring location accuracy. The E911 Order
would have required wireless carriers to achieve E911 location accuracy measured
in each of the local areas served by the approximately 6,000 PSAPs across the
country. Carriers would have had until September 2012 to achieve PSAP-level
accuracy, and would have had to demonstrate compliance with certain incremental
location accuracy benchmarks in 2009 and 2010. The PSAP-level accuracy
requirement in the E911 Order was not attainable throughout our wireless network
using currently available commercial technology. 

In March
2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (Court of Appeals)
granted motions filed by AT T and other carriers seeking a stay of the E911
Order pending a ruling on the merits of the appeals of that order. Subsequently,
the FCC filed a motion with the Court of Appeals asking that the E911 Order be
vacated and remanded. The Court of Appeals vacated the E911 Order in September
2008. As of the date of this report, discussions are continuing between the FCC,
wireless carriers, and the public safety community as to what steps should be
taken regarding improved E911 accuracy. 

Wireless Universal
Service   AT T Mobility is currently a Competitive Eligible
Telecommunications Carrier (CETC) for purposes of receiving federal universal
service support in several states. To maintain these designations, the
state must certify that the carrier is entitled to receive the funds for the
subsequent calendar year based on federal and applicable state CETC
requirements. We are current on our certifications and have a process to
review these requirements on an annual basis. In May 2008, the FCC adopted an
Order capping high-cost universal service support received by CETCs  
predominantly wireless carriers   at a statewide level. The state-specific
cap will be set based on the amount of support that CETCs in that state were
eligible to receive in March 2008 on an annualized basis. Notably, while
AT T previously consented to a voluntary cap on its receipt of federal
universal service support as of June 30, 2007 in order to obtain approval for
the acquisition of Dobson, this commitment was superseded by the industry-wide
CETC cap adopted in the May 2008 Order. The industry-wide cap was implemented in
the third quarter of 2008. AT T Mobility received approximately $211 million
in federal high-cost support in 2008. 

17 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

State
Regulation   A summary of significant 2008 state regulatory
developments follows. 

Video Service
Legislation   A number of states in which we operate have
adopted legislation or issued clarifying opinions that will make it easier for
telecommunications companies to offer video service. 

California High Cost
Fund   In June 2006, the California Public Utilities Commission
(CPUC) opened a rulemaking to review the California High Cost Fund B (CHCF-B).
The CHCF-B program was established in 1996 and was designed to support universal
service goals by ensuring that basic telephone service remains affordable in
high-cost areas within the service territories of the state s major incumbent
local exchange carriers. In September 2007, the CPUC adopted a decision that
changed how the CHCF-B is calculated. We estimate the change will reduce our
payments from the CHCF-B by approximately $100 in 2009 compared to 2008
payments. In September 2008, the CPUC adopted a related decision, which permits
but does not require, increases to basic rates of prescribed amounts over a
two-year phase-in period beginning January 1, 2009. This two-year transition
period concludes with full pricing flexibility for basic residential service
starting January 1, 2011. 

COMPETITION 

Competition
continues to increase for telecommunications and information services.
Technological advances have expanded the types and uses of services and products
available. In addition, lack of or a reduced level of regulation of comparable
alternatives (e.g., cable, wireless and VoIP providers) has lowered costs for
these alternative communications service providers. As a result, we face
heightened competition as well as some new opportunities in significant portions
of our business. 

Wireless 

      We face
substantial and increasing competition in all aspects of our wireless business.
Under current FCC rules, six or more PCS licensees, two cellular licensees and
one or more enhanced specialized mobile radio licensees may operate in each of
our service areas, which results in the potential presence of multiple
competitors. Our competitors are principally three national (Verizon Wireless,
Sprint Nextel Corp. and T-Mobile) and a larger number of regional providers of
cellular, PCS and other wireless communications services. More than 95% of the
U.S. population lives in areas with three mobile telephone operators and more
than half the population lives in areas with at least five competing
carriers. 

We may
experience significant competition from companies that provide similar services
using other communications technologies and services. While some of these
technologies and services are now operational, others are being developed or may
be developed in the future. We compete for customers based principally on price,
service offerings, call quality, coverage area and customer
service. 

We were a
winning bidder in the FCC 700 MHz spectrum auctions that began in January 2008,
and in 2008, we purchased additional spectrum licenses covering 196 million
people in the 700 MHz frequency band. The availability of this additional
spectrum from the auctions could increase the effectiveness of existing
competition, or result in new entrants in the wireless arena. 

Wireline 

      Our
wireline subsidiaries expect continued competitive pressure in 2009 from
multiple providers, including wireless, cable and other VoIP providers,
interexchange carriers and resellers. In addition, economic pressures are
forcing customers to terminate their traditional local wireline service and
substitute wireless and Internet-based services, intensifying a pre-existing
trend toward wireless and Internet use. At this time, we are unable to quantify
the effect of competition on the industry as a whole, or financially on this
segment. However, we expect both losses of revenue share in local service and
gains resulting from business initiatives, especially in the area of bundling of
products and services, including wireless and video, large-business data
services and broadband. In most markets, we compete with large cable companies,
such as Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Inc., for
local, high-speed Internet and video services customers and other smaller
telecommunications companies for both long-distance and local services
customers. 

18 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Our
wireline subsidiaries generally remain subject to regulation by state regulatory
commissions for intrastate services and by the FCC for interstate services. In
contrast, our competitors are often subject to less or no regulation in
providing comparable voice and data services or the extent of regulation is in
dispute. Under the Telecom Act, companies seeking to interconnect to our
wireline subsidiaries  networks and exchange local calls enter into
interconnection agreements with us. Any unresolved issues in negotiating those
agreements are subject to arbitration before the appropriate state commission.
These agreements (whether fully agreed-upon or arbitrated) are then subject to
review and approval by the appropriate state commission. 

Recently,
in a number of the states in which we operate as an ILEC, state legislatures or
the state public utility commissions have concluded that the voice
telecommunications market is competitive and have allowed for greater pricing
flexibility for non-basic residential retail services, including bundles,
promotions and new products and services. While it has been a number of years
since we have been allowed to raise local service rates in certain states, some
of these state actions have been challenged by certain parties and are pending
court review. 

In
addition to these rates and service regulations noted above, our wireline
subsidiaries (excluding rural carrier affiliates) operate under state-specific
elective  price-cap regulation  for retail services (also referred to as
 alternative regulation ) that was either legislatively enacted or authorized by
the appropriate state regulatory commission. Under price-cap regulation, price
caps are set for regulated services and are not tied to the cost of providing
the services or to rate-of-return requirements. Price-cap rates may be subject
to or eligible for annual decreases or increases and also may be eligible for
deregulation or greater pricing flexibility if the associated service is deemed
competitive under some state regulatory commission rules. Minimum customer
service standards may also be imposed and payments required if we fail to meet
the standards. 

We
continue to lose access lines due to competitors (e.g., wireless, cable and VoIP
providers) who can provide comparable services at lower prices because they are
not subject to traditional telephone industry regulation (or the extent of
regulation is in dispute) and consequently have lower cost structures. In
response to these competitive pressures, for several years we have utilized a
bundling strategy that rewards customers who consolidate their services (e.g.,
local and long-distance telephone, DSL, wireless and video) with us. We continue
to focus on bundling wireline and wireless services, including combined packages
of minutes and video service through our AT T U-verse service and our
relationships with satellite television providers. We will continue to develop
innovative products that capitalize on our expanding fiber network. 

Additionally,
we provide local, domestic intrastate and interstate, international wholesale
networking capacity and switched services to other service providers, primarily
large Internet Service Providers using the largest class of nationwide Internet
networks (Internet backbone), wireless carriers, CLECs, regional phone ILECs,
cable companies and systems integrators. These services are subject to
additional competitive pressures from the development of new technologies and
the increased availability of domestic and international transmission capacity.
The introduction of new products and service offerings and increasing satellite,
wireless, fiber-optic and cable transmission capacity for services similar to
those provided by us continues to provide competitive pressures. We face a
number of international competitors, including Equant, British Telecom and
SingTel; as well as competition from a number of large systems integrators, such
as Electronic Data Systems. 

Advertising
  Publishing 

      Our
advertising   publishing subsidiaries face competition from approximately
100 publishers of printed directories in their operating areas. Competition also
exists from other advertising media, including newspapers, radio, television and
direct-mail providers, as well as from directories offered over the Internet.
Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, YPC, we compete with other providers of
Internet-based advertising and local search. 

19 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

ACCOUNTING
POLICIES AND STANDARDS 

Significant Accounting Policies and
Estimates   Because of the size of the financial statement line
items they relate to, some of our accounting policies and estimates have a more
significant impact on our financial statements than others. The policies below
are presented in the order in which the topics appear in our consolidated
statements of income. 

Allowance for
Uncollectibles   We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts
for estimated losses that result from the failure of our customers to make
required payments. When determining the allowance, we consider the probability
of recoverability based on past experience, taking into account current
collection trends as well as general economic factors, including bankruptcy
rates. Credit risks are assessed based on historical write-offs, net of
recoveries, and an analysis of the aged accounts receivable balances with
reserves generally increasing as the receivable ages. Accounts receivable may be
fully reserved for when specific collection issues are known to exist, such as
pending bankruptcy or catastrophes. The analysis of receivables is performed
monthly and the bad-debt allowances are adjusted accordingly. A 10% change in
the amounts estimated to be uncollectible would result in a change in
uncollectible expense of approximately $130. 

Pension and Postretirement
Benefits   Our actuarial estimates of retiree benefit expense
and the associated significant weighted-average assumptions are discussed in
Note 11. One of the most significant of these assumptions is the return on
assets assumption, which was 8.50% for the year ended December 31, 2008. In
setting the long-term assumed rate of return, management considers capital
markets future expectations and the asset mix of the plans  investments. The
actual long-term return can, in relatively stable markets, also serve as a
factor in determining future expectations. However, the dramatic adverse market
conditions in 2008 have skewed the calculation of the long-term actual return;
the actual 10-year return was 4.21% through 2008 compared with 9.18% through
2007. The severity of the 2008 losses will make the 10-year actual return less
of a relevant factor in management s evaluation of future expectations. Based on
future expectations and the plans  asset mix, management has left unchanged the
long-term assumed rate of return for 2009. If all other factors were to remain
unchanged, we expect that a 1.0% decrease in the assumed long-term rate of
return would cause 2009 combined pension and postretirement cost to increase
$650 over 2008. Under GAAP, the expected long-term rate of return is calculated
on the market-related value of assets (MRVA). GAAP requires that actual gains
and losses on pension and postretirement plan assets be recognized in the MRVA
equally over a period of up to five years. We use a methodology, allowed under
GAAP, under which we hold the MRVA to within 20% of the actual fair value of
plan assets, which can have the effect of accelerating the recognition of excess
actual gains and losses into the MRVA in less than five years. We expect that
use of this policy will increase precapitalization pension and postretirement
costs by $1,577 in 2009. This methodology did not have a significant additional
effect on our 2008, 2007 or 2006 combined net pension and postretirement costs.
Note 11 also discusses the effects of certain changes in assumptions related to
medical trend rates on retiree health care costs. 

Depreciation   Our
depreciation of assets, including use of composite group depreciation and
estimates of useful lives, is described in Notes 1 and 5. We assign useful lives
based on periodic studies of actual asset lives. Changes in those lives with
significant impact on the financial statements must be disclosed, but no such
changes have occurred in the three years ended December 31, 2008. However, if
all other factors were to remain unchanged, we expect that a one-year increase
in the useful lives of the largest categories of our plant in service (which
accounts for more than three-fourths of our total plant in service) would result
in a decrease of approximately $2,160 in our 2009 depreciation expense and that
a one-year decrease would result in an increase of approximately $3,390 in our
2009 depreciation expense. 

Asset Valuations and
Impairments   We account for acquisitions using the purchase
method as required by FAS 141. Under FAS 141, we allocate the purchase price to
the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair
values. The estimated fair values of intangible assets acquired are based on the
expected discounted cash flows of the identified customer relationships,
patents, tradenames and licenses. In determining the future cash flows, we
consider demand, competition and other economic factors. 

Customer
relationships, which are finite-lived intangible assets, are primarily amortized
using the sum-of-the-months-digits method of amortization over the period in
which those relationships are expected to contribute to our future cash flows.
The sum-of-the-months-digits method is a process of allocation, not of
valuation, and reflects our belief that we expect greater revenue generation
from these customer relationships during the earlier years of their lives.
Alternatively, we could have chosen to amortize customer relationships using the
straight-line method, which would allocate the cost equally over the
amortization period. Amortization of other intangibles, including patents and
amortizable tradenames, is determined using the straight-line method of
amortization over the expected remaining useful lives. We do not amortize
indefinite-lived intangibles, such as wireless FCC licenses or certain
tradenames (see Note 6). 

20 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Goodwill
and wireless FCC licenses are not amortized but tested annually for impairment
in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (FAS 142). We review other long-lived
assets for impairment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,
 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  whenever events
or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable over
the remaining life of the asset or asset group. In order to determine that the
asset is recoverable, we verify that the expected future cash flows directly
related to that asset exceed its fair value, which is based on the undiscounted
cash flows. The discounted cash flow calculation uses various assumptions and
estimates regarding future revenue, expense and cash flows projections over the
estimated remaining useful life of the asset. 

Cost
investments are evaluated to determine whether mark-to-market declines are
temporary and reflected in other comprehensive income, or other than temporary
and recorded as an expense in the income statement. This evaluation is based on
the length of time and the severity of decline in the investment s value. At the
end of 2008, we concluded the severity of decline in the latter half of 2008 had
led to an other than temporary decline in the value of assets contained in an
independently managed trust for certain BellSouth employee benefits (see Note
11). 

Income Taxes   Our
estimates of income taxes and the significant items giving rise to the deferred
assets and liabilities are shown in Note 10 and reflect our assessment of actual
future taxes to be paid on items reflected in the financial statements, giving
consideration to both timing and probability of these estimates. Actual income
taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law or
the final review of our tax returns by federal, state or foreign tax
authorities. 

In 2007,
we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48) and began accounting for
uncertain tax positions under the provisions of FIN 48. As required by FIN 48,
we use our judgment to determine whether it is more likely than not that we will
sustain positions that we have taken on tax returns and, if so, the amount of
benefit to initially recognize within our financial statements. We regularly
review our uncertain tax positions and adjust our unrecognized tax benefits in
light of changes in facts and circumstances, such as changes in tax law,
interactions with taxing authorities and developments in case law. These
adjustments to our unrecognized tax benefits may affect our income tax expense.
Settlement of uncertain tax positions may require use of our cash. 

New
Accounting Standards 

FAS 161   In March
2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133  (FAS
161). FAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entity s derivative and
hedging activities to improve the transparency of financial reporting. It is
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods
beginning after November 15, 2008. FAS 161 is expected to increase quarterly and
annual disclosures but will not have an impact on our financial position and
results of operations. 

FSP 157-3   In
October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 157-3,  Determining the Fair
Value of a Financial Asset When the Market of that Asset is not Active  (FSP
157-3). FSP 157-3 provides an example that clarifies and reiterates certain
provisions of the existing fair value standard, including basing fair value on
orderly transactions and usage of management and broker inputs. FSP 157-3 is
effective immediately but is not expected to have a material impact on our
financial position or results of operations. 

FSP FAS 142-3    In April 2008, the FASB
issued FASB Staff Position FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of
Intangible Assets  (FSP FAS 142-3). FSP FAS 142-3 amends the factors that should
be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine
the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  FSP FAS 142-3 is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and
interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the
impact that FSP FAS 142-3 will have on our accounting for intangible
assets. 

21 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

FSP FAS 1  32(R)-  1    In December 2008, the
FASB issued FASB Staff Position FAS 132(R)-1,  Employers  Disclosures about
Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  (FSP FAS 132(R)-1). FSP FAS 132(R)-1 amends
FASB Statement No. 132(R),  Employers  Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefit  (FAS 132(R)). This FASB Staff Position replaces the
requirement to disclose the percentage of fair value of total plan assets with a
requirement to disclose the fair value of each major asset category. It also
amends FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (FAS 157), to clarify
that defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan assets are not subject
to FAS 157 s disclosure requirements. FSP FAS 132(R)-1 is effective for fiscal
years ending after December 2009. This FSP will significantly increase the
amount of disclosures for plan assets in our 2009 Annual Report. 

EITF 08-6   In
November 2008, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on EITF
08-6,  Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations.  EITF 08-6 provides
guidance on the application of the equity method. It states equity-method
investments should be recognized using a cost accumulation model. Also, it
requires that equity method investments as a whole be assessed for
other-than-temporary impairment in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 18. EITF 08-6 is effective on a prospective basis for transactions
in an investee s shares occurring or impairments recognized in fiscal years, and
interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15,
2008. This EITF will not have a material impact on our financial position and
results of operations. 

EITF 08-7   In
November 2008, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF 08-7,  Accounting for
Defensive Intangible Assets.  EITF 08-7 provides that intangible assets that an
acquirer intends to use as defensive assets, intangible assets acquired in a
business combination or an asset acquisition that an entity does not intend to
actively use but does intend to prevent others from using, are a separate unit
of account from the existing intangible assets of the acquirer. It also states
that a defensive intangible asset should be amortized over the period that the
fair value of the defensive intangible asset diminishes. EITF 08-7 is effective
on a prospective basis for transactions occurring in fiscal years, and interim
periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. This
EITF will require AT T to recognize at fair value certain assets associated
with trademarks for the non-surviving companies of acquisitions and amortize
these trademarks over the period they are expected to contribute directly or
indirectly to the entity s future cash flows. 

OTHER
BUSINESS MATTERS 

Retiree Phone Concession
Litigation   In May 2005, we were served with a purported class
action in U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas ( Stoffels v. SBC
Communications Inc. ), in which the plaintiffs, who are retirees of
Pacific Bell Telephone Company, Southwestern Bell and Ameritech, contend that
the telephone concession provided by the company is, in essence, a  defined
benefit plan  within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended (ERISA). In October 2006, the Court certified two classes.
The issue of whether the concession is an ERISA pension plan was tried before
the judge in November 2007. In May 2008, the court ruled that the concession was
an ERISA pension plan. We asked the court to certify this ruling for
interlocutory appeal and in August 2008, the court denied our request. A trial
on the appropriate remedy has been set for December 7, 2009. We believe that an
adverse outcome having a material effect on our financial statements in this
case is unlikely, but will continue to evaluate the potential impact of this
suit on our financial results as it progresses. 

NSA
Litigation   There are 24 pending lawsuits that allege that we
and other telecommunications carriers unlawfully provided assistance to the
National Security Agency (NSA) in connection with intelligence activities that
were initiated following the events of September 11, 2001. In the first filed
case,  Hepting et al v.
AT T Corp., AT T Inc. and Does 1-20 , a purported class action
filed in U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California, plaintiffs
allege that the defendants have disclosed and are currently disclosing to the
U.S. Government content and call records concerning communications to which
plaintiffs were a party. Plaintiffs seek damages, a declaratory judgment, and
injunctive relief for violations of the First and Fourth Amendments to the
United States Constitution, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, the
Electronic Communications Privacy Act, and other federal and California
statutes. We filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. The United States asserted
the  state secrets privilege  and related statutory privileges and also filed a
motion asking the court to dismiss the complaint. The court denied the motions
to dismiss of both parties 

We and
the U.S. Government filed interlocutory appeals. The case was argued before a
panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in August 2007. In
August 2008, the court remanded the case to the district court without deciding
the issue in light of the passage of the FISA Amendments Act discussed
below. 

22 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

In July
2008, the President signed into law, the FISA (Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act) Amendments Act of 2008 (the Act), a provision of which addresses the
allegations in these pending lawsuits (immunity provision). The immunity
provision requires the pending lawsuits to be dismissed if the Attorney General
certifies to the court either that the alleged assistance was undertaken by
court order, certification, directive, or written request or that the telecom
entity did not provide the alleged assistance. In September 2008, the Attorney
General filed his certification and asked the court to dismiss all of the
lawsuits pending against the telecommunications companies. In October 2008, the
plaintiffs filed an opposition to the certification and motion to dismiss
arguing that the Act is unconstitutional and, alternatively, that the Government
failed to meet its burden of justifying dismissal. The court heard argument on
the Government s motion to dismiss on December 2, 2008. We are awaiting the
court s decision. We believe that the immunity provision is constitutional, that
the Government has met its burden of proof, and that the lawsuits pending
against us will eventually be dismissed. 

In
addition, a lawsuit seeking to enjoin the immunity provision s application on
grounds that it is unconstitutional was filed the day after the Act was signed
by the President. That case has been referred to the Joint Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation, which has conditionally transferred the case to the
Northern District of California, the court referred to above that is considering
the Attorney General s certification and motion to dismiss. On January 6, 2009,
the transfer order was filed in the MDL docket, giving the Northern District of
California jurisdiction over the case. 

Management
believes these actions are without merit and intends to defend these matters
vigorously. 

Prepaid Calling Card Patent
Litigation  In September 2007, a jury in Texas found that ATTC willfully
infringed two patents owned by TGIP Inc. (TGIP) relating to point-of-sale
prepaid cards sold by ATTC and awarded TGIP $156 in damages. ( TGIP Inc. v. AT T Corp.
et al ., U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas). AT T
filed a motion requesting that the court overturn the jury s verdict as a matter
of law. In October 2007, the court overturned the jury s finding of
infringement, the jury s $156 award of damages and the jury s finding of
willfulness. TGIP appealed the court's decision. In April 2008, the parties
settled the litigation resulting in no additional expense accrual. 

Broadcom Patent
Dispute   A number of our handsets, as well as those provided by
other wireless carriers, were subject to a patent dispute at the U.S.
International Trade Commission (ITC) between Broadcom Corporation and Qualcomm
Incorporated (Qualcomm). In October 2008, the Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit vacated and remanded the ITC's finding that Qualcomm had infringed a
Broadcom patent and vacated the ITC s limited exclusion order applicable to
certain handsets containing Qualcomm technology. The court held that the ITC did
not have authority to issue a limited exclusion order affecting handset
suppliers and retailers, such as AT T, unless those parties were also named
in the lawsuit. While this ruling would allow us to continue to sell to our
customers handsets using the disputed Qualcomm chips, we do not currently offer
any such handsets. 

DIRECTV
Agreement   In September 2008, we announced an agreement to
market and sell DIRECTV's service as a co-branded satellite television service
after January 31, 2009. We did offer, market and sell co-branded
AT T | DISH Network services through January 31, 2009. After
that date, existing AT T | DISH Network customers will
continue to receive DISH Network service under the existing
AT T | DISH Network agreement. 

Centennial Communications
Acquisition   In November 2008, we agreed to acquire Centennial
Communications, Corp., a regional provider of wireless and wired communications
services with 1.1 million customers, for $944 plus net debt of approximately
$2,000. The acquisition is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to
close by mid-year 2009. 

Environmental   We
are subject from time to time to judicial and administrative proceedings
brought by various governmental authorities under federal, state or
local environmental laws. Although we are required to
reference in our Forms 10-Q and 10-K any of these proceedings that could
result in monetary sanctions (exclusive of interest and costs) of one hundred
thousand dollars or more, we do not believe that any of them currently
pending will have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations. 

LIQUIDITY
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

We had
$1,792 in cash and cash equivalents available at December 31, 2008. Cash and
cash equivalents included cash of $958 and money market funds and other cash
equivalents of $834. Cash and cash equivalents decreased $178 since December 31,
2007. During 2008, cash inflow was primarily provided by cash receipts from
operations, the issuance of long-term debt, net cash received from dispositions
of non-strategic real estate and the sale of marketable securities and other
assets. These inflows were offset by cash used to meet the needs of the business
including, but not limited to, payment of operating expenses, funding capital
expenditures, acquisition of wireless spectrum, repurchase of common shares,
repayment of debt, dividends to stockholders and payment of interest on debt. We
discuss many of these factors in detail below. 

23 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Cash
Provided by or Used in Operating Activities 

      During
2008, cash provided by operating activities was $33,656 compared to $34,242 in
2007. Operating cash flows decreased primarily due to   increased tax payments
of $1,294 partially offset by improvement in operating income excluding
depreciation. During 2008, tax payments were higher primarily due to increased
income. The timing of cash payments for income taxes, which is governed by the
IRS and other taxing jurisdictions, will differ from the timing of recording tax
expense and deferred income taxes, which are reported in accordance with
GAAP. 

During
2007, our primary source of funds was cash from operating activities of $34,242
compared to $15,688 in 2006. Operating cash flows increased primarily due to an
increase of more than $4,500 in operating income reflecting additional cash
provided by the BellSouth acquisition and our success in achieving merger
synergies and operational efficiencies, partially offset by increased interest
payments of approximately $1,800 and tax payments of $1,200. Tax payments were
higher due primarily to a $1,000 deposit related to the IRS examination of our
2000   2002 income tax returns. 

Cash
Used in or Provided by Investing Activities 

      During
2008, cash used in investing activities consisted of: 

$19,676
      in capital expenditures, excluding interest during
      construction. 

$659
      in interest during construction. 

$9,497
      for the purchase of spectrum licenses including the 700 MHz Band wireless
      spectrum auction and the acquisition of licenses from Aloha Partners,
      L.P. 

$350
      related to a customer list
acquisition. 

$697
      related to various wireless-related
  acquisitions. 

During
2008, cash provided by investing activities consisted of: 

$1,501
      from dispositions of non-strategic
assets. 

$114
      from the sale of marketable and equity
  securities. 

Our
capital expenditures are primarily for our wireless and wireline subsidiaries 
networks, our U-verse services, and support systems for our communications
services. Capital spending (excluding interest during construction) in our
wireless segment increased 42.1% in 2008, primarily for network capacity
expansion, integration and upgrades to our Universal Mobile Telecommunications
System/High-Speed Packet Access network, as well as for IT and other support
systems for our wireless service. Capital expenditures in the wireline segment,
which represented 69.4% of our capital expenditures, increased 2.5% in 2008,
primarily due to the continued deployment of our U-verse services. 

The other
segment capital expenditures were less than 2% of total capital expenditures for
2008. Included in the other segment are equity investments, which should be
self-funding as they are not direct AT T operations; as well as corporate,
diversified business and Sterling operations, which we expect to fund using cash
from operations. We expect to fund any advertising   publishing segment
capital expenditures using cash from operations. 

Cash
Used in or Provided by Financing Activities 

      In
December 2007, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase plan of
400 million shares, which replaces our previous share repurchase authorization
from March 2006. During 2008, we repurchased 164 million shares at a cost of
$6,077. These 2008 share repurchases are the only ones made under the current
authorization. This new authorization represents approximately 6.7% of
AT T's shares outstanding at December 31, 2008 and expires at the end of
2009. We have repurchased, and may continue to repurchase, a portion of the
shares pursuant to plans that comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We will fund any additional share
repurchases through a combination of cash from operations, borrowings dependent
upon market conditions, and cash from the disposition of certain non-strategic
investments. However, we anticipate concentrating on reducing debt levels rather
than share repurchases in 2009. 

24 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

We paid
dividends of $9,507 in 2008, $8,743 in 2007 and $5,153 in 2006, reflecting the
issuance of additional shares for the BellSouth and ATTC acquisitions and
dividend rate increases. In December 2008, our Board of Directors approved a
2.5% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.40 to $0.41 per share. This
increase recognizes our expectations for growth and follows a 12.7% dividend
increase approved by AT T's Board in December 2007. Dividends declared by
our Board of Directors totaled $1.61 per share in 2008, $1.465 per share in 2007
and $1.35 per share in 2006. Our dividend policy considers both the expectations
and requirements of stockholders, internal requirements of AT T and
long-term growth opportunities. It is our intent to provide the financial
flexibility to allow our Board of Directors to consider dividend growth and to
recommend an increase in dividends to be paid in future periods. All dividends
remain subject to approval by our Board of Directors. 

At
December 31, 2008, we had $14,119 of debt maturing within one year, which
included $9,503 of long-term debt maturities and $4,616 of commercial paper
borrowings and other borrowings. Most of our commercial paper borrowings are due
within 90 days. We continue to examine our mix of short- and long-term debt in
light of interest rate trends and current credit market conditions. 

During
2008, we received net proceeds of $12,416 from the issuance of $12,475 in
long-term debt. Debt proceeds were used for general corporate purposes and parts
of the proceeds were used for repurchases of our common stock. Long-term debt
issuances consisted of: 

$2,000
      of floating rate notes due 2010 in a private offering, which can be
      redeemed by the holder early (which is classified as debt maturing in one
      year). 

Beginning
in May 2009, a $500 zero-coupon puttable note may be presented for redemption by
the holder at specified dates but not more frequently than annually, excluding
2011. If the note is held to maturity in 2022, the redemption amount will be
$1,030. 

In
November 2008, we agreed to acquire Centennial Communications, a wireless
operator in portions of the United States and Puerto Rico, including its
outstanding debt of approximately $2,000. All of Centennial s debt was callable
after January 2009. The various debt agreements contain a number of restrictive
operating covenants, which make it likely that we will call such debt upon
closing of the acquisition. 

We
entered into fixed-to-fixed cross-currency swaps on our 2015 euro-denominated
debt instruments to hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. These hedges also include interest rate swaps of a fixed euro-denominated
interest rate to a fixed U.S.-denominated interest rate, which results in a
U.S.-denominated semiannual rate of 5.77%. 

During
2008, debt repayments totaled $4,010 and consisted of: 

$66
      related to repayments of Edge Wireless term
  loan. 

$29
      related to scheduled principal payments on other debt and repayments of
      other borrowings. 

We have a
five-year $10,000 credit agreement with a syndicate of investment and commercial
banks, which we have the right to increase up to an additional $2,000, provided
no event of default under the credit agreement has occurred. One of the
participating banks is Lehman Brothers Bank, Inc., which recently declared
bankruptcy. We are unable to determine the status of its stated commitment of
$595 at this time. The current agreement will expire in July 2011. We also have
the right to terminate, in whole or in part, amounts committed by the lenders
under this agreement in excess of any outstanding advances; however, any such
terminated commitments may not be reinstated. Advances under this agreement may
be used for general corporate purposes, including support of commercial paper
borrowings and other short-term borrowings. There is no material adverse change
provision governing the drawdown of advances under this credit agreement. This
agreement contains a negative pledge covenant, which requires that, if at any
time we or a subsidiary pledge assets or otherwise permits a lien on its
properties, advances under this agreement will be ratably secured, subject to
specified exceptions. We must maintain a debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before
interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and other modifications
described in the agreement) financial ratio covenant of not more than
three-to-one as of the last day of each fiscal quarter for the four quarters
then ended. We comply with all covenants under the agreement. At December 31,
2008, we had no borrowings outstanding under this agreement (see Note
8). 

25 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

During
2008, proceeds of $319 from the issuance of treasury shares were related to the
settlement of share-based awards. 

During
2007, we paid $190 to minority interest holders and $47 to terminate interest
rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $1,800 acquired as a result of our
acquisition of BellSouth. 

In
February of 2009, we issued $1,000 of 4.85% global notes due 2014, $2,250 of
5.8% global notes due 2019 and $2,250 of 6.55% global notes due
2039. 

We plan
to fund our 2009 financing activities through a combination of debt issuances
and cash from operations. Our financing activities emphasis will be on the
repayment of debt. We will continue to examine opportunities to fund our
activities by issuing debt at favorable rates and with cash from the disposition
of certain other non-strategic investments. 

Other 

      Our total
capital consists of debt (long-term debt and debt maturing within one year) and
stockholders  equity. Our capital structure does not include debt issued by our
international equity investees. Our debt ratio was 43.8%, 35.7%, and 34.1% at
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The debt ratio is affected by the same factors
that affect total capital. Total capital decreased $8,144 in 2008 compared to an
increase of $4,146 in 2007. The 2008 total capital decrease was due to a $16,677
decrease in accumulated other comprehensive loss that reflects a decrease in
retirement plans funded status partially offset by an increase in debt of
$10,876 related to our financing activities. Our stockholders  equity balance
was down $19,020 primarily due to the decrease in retirement plan funded status
discussed above. 

The
primary factor contributing to the increase in our 2007 debt ratio was the
increase in debt of $4,319 related to our financing activities. Our
stockholders  equity balance decreased $173 and included our increase in net
income and current adjustments for unrealized pension and postretirement gains,
which were more than offset by our increased share repurchase activity and
dividend distributions. 

CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Current
accounting standards require us to disclose our material obligations and
commitments to making future payments under contracts, such as debt and lease
agreements, and under contingent commitments, such as debt guarantees. We
occasionally enter into third-party debt guarantees, but they are not, nor are
they reasonably likely to become, material. We disclose our contractual
long-term debt repayment obligations in Note 8 and our operating lease payments
in Note 5. Our contractual obligations do not include expected pension and
postretirement payments as we maintain pension funds and Voluntary Employee
Beneficiary Association trusts to fully or partially fund these benefits (see
Note 11). In the ordinary course of business, we routinely enter into commercial
commitments for various aspects of our operations, such as plant additions and
office supplies. However, we do not believe that the commitments will have a
material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows. 

Our
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008, are in the following table. The
purchase obligations that follow are those for which we have guaranteed funds
and will be funded with cash provided by operations or through incremental
borrowings. The minimum commitment for certain obligations is based on
termination penalties that could be paid to exit the contract. Since termination
penalties would not be paid every year, such penalties are excluded from the
table. Other long-term liabilities were included in the table based on the year
of required payment or an estimate of the year of payment. Such estimate of
payment is based on a review of past trends for these items, as well as a
forecast of future activities. Certain items were excluded from the following
table as the year of payment is unknown and could not be reliably estimated
since past trends were not deemed to be an indicator of future
payment. 

26 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Substantially
all of our purchase obligations are in our wireline and wireless segments. The
table does not include the fair value of our interest rate swaps. Our capital
lease obligations have been excluded from the table due to the immaterial value
at December 31, 2008. Many of our other noncurrent liabilities have been
excluded from the following table due to the uncertainty of the timing of
payments, combined with the absence of historical trending to be used as a
predictor of such payments. Additionally, certain other long-term liabilities
have been excluded since settlement of such liabilities will not require the use
of cash. However, we have included in the following table obligations which
primarily relate to benefit funding and severance due to the certainty of the
timing of these future payments. Our other long-term liabilities are: deferred
income taxes (see Note 10) of $19,196; postemployment benefit obligations (see
Note 11) of $31,930; and other noncurrent liabilities of $14,610, which included
deferred lease revenue from our agreement with American Tower of $539 (see Note
5). 

1  

The
      impact of premiums/discounts and derivative instruments included in debt
      amounts on the balance sheet are excluded from the
  table. 

2  

The
      non-current portion of the unrecognized tax benefits is included in the
       More than 5 Years  column as we cannot reasonably estimate the timing or
      amounts of additional cash payments, if any, at this time. See Note 10 for
      additional information. 

3  

We
      have contractual obligations to utilize network facilities from local
      exchange carriers with terms greater than one year. Since the contracts
      have no minimum volume requirements and are based on an interrelationship
      of volumes and discounted rates, we assessed our minimum commitment based
      on penalties to exit the contracts, assuming that we had exited the
      contracts on December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the termination fees
      we would have incurred to exit all of these contracts would have been
      $213. These termination fees could be $167 in 2009, $45 in the aggregate
      for 2010 and 2011 and $1 for 2012, assuming that all contracts are exited.
      These termination fees are excluded from the above table as the fees would
      not be paid every year and the timing of such payments, if any, is
      uncertain. 

4  

We
      calculated the minimum obligation for certain agreements to purchase goods
      or services based on termination fees that can be paid to exit the
      contract. If we elect to exit these contracts, termination fees for all
      such contracts in the year of termination could be approximately $368 in
      2009, $418 in the aggregate for 2010 and 2011, $185 in the aggregate for
      2012 and 2013 and $35 in the aggregate, thereafter. Certain termination
      fees are excluded from the above table as the fees would not be paid every
      year and the timing of such payments, if any, is
  uncertain. 

5  

Other
      long-term obligations include commitments with local exchange carriers for
      dedicated leased lines. 

MARKET
RISK 

We are
exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. In managing exposure to these fluctuations, we may
engage in various hedging transactions that have been authorized according to
documented policies and procedures. On a limited basis, we use certain
derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency exchange contracts
and combined interest rate foreign currency contracts, to manage these risks. We
do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in
speculative activity. Our capital costs are directly linked to financial and
business risks. We seek to manage the potential negative effects from market
volatility and market risk. The majority of our financial instruments are
medium- and long-term fixed rate notes and debentures. Fluctuations in market
interest rates can lead to significant fluctuations in the fair value of these
notes and debentures. It is our policy to manage our debt structure and foreign
exchange exposure in order to manage capital costs, control financial risks and
maintain financial flexibility over the long term. Where appropriate, we will
take actions to limit the negative effect of interest and foreign exchange
rates, liquidity and counterparty risks on stockholder value. 

We enter
into foreign currency contracts to minimize our exposure to risk of adverse
changes in currency exchange rates. We are subject to foreign exchange risk for
foreign currency-denominated transactions, such as debt issued, recognized
payables and receivables and forecasted transactions. At December 31, 2008, our
foreign currency exposures were principally Mexican pesos, Euros, Danish krone,
Swedish krona and Canadian dollars. 

27 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

QUANTITATIVE
INFORMATION ABOUT MARKET RISK 

In order
to determine the changes in fair value of our various financial instruments, we
use certain financial modeling techniques. We apply rate-sensitivity changes
directly to our interest rate swap transactions and forward rate sensitivity to
our foreign currency-forward contracts. 

The
changes in fair value, as discussed below, assume the occurrence of certain
market conditions, which could have an adverse financial impact on AT T and
do not represent projected gains or losses in fair value that we expect to
incur. Future impacts would be based on actual developments in global financial
markets. We do not foresee any significant changes in the strategies used to
manage interest rate risk, foreign currency rate risk or equity price risk in
the near future. 

Interest Rate
Sensitivity   The principal amounts by expected maturity,
average interest rate and fair value of our liabilities that are exposed to
interest rate risk are described in Notes 8 and 9. Following are our interest
rate derivatives, subject to interest rate risk as of December 31, 2008. The
interest rates illustrated in the interest rate swaps section of the table below
refer to the average expected rates we would receive and the average expected
rates we would pay based on the contracts. The notional amount is the principal
amount of the debt subject to the interest rate swap contracts. The net fair
value asset (liability) represents the amount we would receive or pay if we had
exited the contracts as of December 31, 2008. 

1  

Interest
      payable based on current and implied forward rates for Three or Six Month
      LIBOR plus a spread ranging between approximately 36 and 175 basis
      points. 

We had
fair value interest rate swaps with a notional value of $5,750 with a net
carrying and fair value asset of $564 at December 31, 2008. At December 31,
2007, we had notional value of $3,250 with an asset of $88. 

Foreign Exchange Forward
Contracts   The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is
subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. For the purpose of
assessing specific risks, we use a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects
that market risk exposures may have on the fair value of our financial
instruments and results of operations. To perform the sensitivity analysis, we
assess the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of a hypothetical 10%
change in the value of foreign currencies (negative change in the value of the
U.S. dollar), assuming no change in interest rates. See Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to
notional amounts and fair values of financial instruments. 

For
foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at December   31, 2008, assuming a
hypothetical 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies from
the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates, the fair value of the foreign
exchange forward contracts (net liability) would have decreased approximately
$13. Because our foreign exchange contracts are entered into for hedging
purposes, we believe that these losses would be largely offset by gains on the
underlying transactions. 

The risk
of loss in fair values of all other financial instruments resulting from a
hypothetical 10% change in market prices was not significant as of December   31, 2008. 

28 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

QUALITATIVE
INFORMATION ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Foreign Exchange
Risk   From time to time, we make investments in businesses in
foreign countries, receive dividends and proceeds from sales or borrow funds in
foreign currency. Before making an investment, or in anticipation of a foreign
currency receipt, we often will enter into forward foreign exchange contracts.
The contracts are used to provide currency at a fixed rate. Our policy is to
measure the risk of adverse currency fluctuations by calculating the potential
dollar losses resulting from changes in exchange rates that have a reasonable
probability of occurring. We cover the exposure that results from changes that
exceed acceptable amounts. We do not speculate in foreign exchange
markets. 

Interest Rate
Risk   We issue debt in fixed and floating rate instruments.
Interest rate swaps are used for the purpose of controlling interest expense by
managing the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. Interest rate forward
contracts are utilized to hedge interest expense related to debt financing. We
do not seek to make a profit from changes in interest rates. We manage interest
rate sensitivity by measuring potential increases in interest expense that would
result from a probable change in interest rates. When the potential increase in
interest expense exceeds an acceptable amount, we reduce risk through the
issuance of fixed-rate (in lieu of variable-rate) instruments and the purchase
of derivatives. 

Issuer
Equity Repurchases 

On
December 10, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase plan
of 400 million shares, which replaces our previous share repurchase
authorization. During 2008, we repurchased 164 million shares at a cost of
$6,077. This new authorization represents approximately 6.7% of AT T's
shares outstanding at December 31, 2008, and expires at the end of 2009. We may
continue to repurchase, a portion of the shares pursuant to plans that comply
with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. We will fund any share repurchases through a combination of cash from
operations, borrowings dependent upon market conditions and cash from the
disposition of certain non-strategic investments but anticipate concentrating on
reducing debt levels rather than share repurchases in 2009. 

1  Average
Price Paid per Share excludes transaction costs.

29 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Stock
Performance Graph 

The
comparison above assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2003, in AT T
common stock, Standard   Poor s 500 Index (S P 500), and Standard
  Poor's 500 Integrated Telecom Index (Telecom Index). Total return equals
stock price appreciation plus reinvestment of dividends on a quarterly
basis. 

CERTIFICATION
BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

As
required under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), our chief
executive officer has timely submitted to the NYSE his annual certification that
he is not aware of any violation by the company of NYSE corporate governance
standards. Also as required under the rules of the NYSE, readers are advised
that the certifications required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 are not included in this report but instead are included as exhibits to our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2008. 

30 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

RISK
FACTORS 

In
addition to the other information set forth in this document, including the
matters contained under the caption  Cautionary Language Concerning
Forward-Looking Statements,  you should carefully read the matters described
below. We believe that each of these matters could materially affect our
business. We recognize that most of these factors are beyond our ability to
control and therefore to predict an outcome. Accordingly, we have organized them
by first addressing general factors, then industry factors and, finally, items
specifically applicable to us. 

A
worsening U.S. economy would magnify our customers  and suppliers  current
financial difficulties and could materially adversely affect our
business. 

We
provide services and products to consumers and large and small businesses in the
United States and to larger businesses throughout the world. The current
economic recession in the U.S. has adversely affected our customers  demand for
and ability to pay for existing services, especially local landline service, and
their interest in purchasing new services. Our suppliers are also facing higher
financing and operating costs. Should these current economic conditions worsen,
we likely would experience both a further decrease in revenues and an increase
in certain expenses, including expenses relating to bad debt and equipment and
software maintenance. We also may incur difficulties locating financially stable
equipment and other suppliers thereby affecting our ability to offer attractive
new services. We are also likely to experience greater pressure on pricing and
margins as we continue to compete for customers who would have even less
discretionary income. While our largest business customers have been less
affected by these adverse changes in the U.S. economy, if the continued adverse
economic conditions in the U.S., Europe and other foreign markets persist or
worsen, those customers would likely be affected in a similar
manner. 

Adverse
changes in medical costs and the U.S. securities markets and interest rates
could materially increase our benefit plan costs. 

Our
pension and postretirement costs are subject to increases, primarily due to
continuing increases in medical and prescription drug costs and can be affected
by lower returns in prior years on funds held by our pension and other benefit
plans, which are reflected in our financial statements over several years.
Investment returns on these funds depend largely on trends in the U.S.
securities markets and the U.S. economy. In calculating the annual costs
included on our financial statements of providing benefits under our plans, we
have made certain assumptions regarding future investment returns, medical costs
and interest rates. If actual investment returns, medical costs and interest
rates are worse than those previously assumed, our annual costs will increase.
We experienced significant actual investment losses during 2008, which will
cause a significant increase in our benefit plan costs during 2009. 

The FASB
required companies to recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and
postretirement plans as an asset or liability in our statement of financial
position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the
changes occur through comprehensive income. Therefore, an increase in our costs
will have a negative effect on our balance sheet. 

The
ongoing uncertainty in global financial markets could materially adversely
affect our ability and our larger customers' ability to access capital needed to
fund business operations. 

The
recent instability in the global financial markets and ongoing uncertainty
affecting these markets have resulted in extreme volatility in the credit,
equity and fixed income markets. This volatility has limited, in some cases
severely, most companies  access to the credit markets, leading to significantly
higher borrowing costs for companies or, in many cases, the inability of these
companies to fund their ongoing operations. As a result, our larger customers,
who tend to be heavy users of our data and wireless services, may be forced to
delay, reduce or be unable to finance, purchases of our products and services
and may delay payment or default on outstanding bills to us. In addition, we
contract with large financial institutions to support our own treasury
operations, including contracts to hedge our exposure on interest rates and
foreign exchange, and the funding of credit lines and other short-term debt
obligations, including commercial paper. While we have been successful in
continuing to access the credit and fixed income markets when needed, a
financial crisis could render us unable to access these markets, severely
affecting our business operations. 

31 

Management s
 Discussion and  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations (continued) 

                Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Changes
in available technology could increase competition and our capital
costs. 

The
telecommunications industry has experienced rapid changes in the last several
years. The development of wireless, cable and IP technologies has significantly
increased the commercial viability of alternatives to traditional wireline
telephone service and enhanced the capabilities of wireless networks. In order
to remain competitive, we have begun to deploy a more sophisticated wireline
network and continue to deploy a more sophisticated wireless network, as well as
research other new technologies. If the new technologies we have adopted or on
which we have focused our research efforts fail to be cost-effective and
accepted by customers, our ability to remain competitive could be materially
adversely affected. 

Changes
to federal, state and foreign government regulations and decisions in regulatory
proceedings could materially adversely affect us. 

Our
wireline subsidiaries are subject to significant federal and state regulation
while many of our competitors are not. In addition, our subsidiaries and
affiliates operating outside the U.S. are also subject to the jurisdiction of
national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is
provided. Our wireless subsidiaries are regulated to varying degrees by the FCC
and some state and local agencies. The adoption of new regulations or changes to
existing regulations could significantly increase our costs, which either would
reduce our operating margins or potentially increase customer turnover should we
attempt to increase prices to cover our increased costs. In addition, the
development of new technologies, such as IP-based services, has created or
potentially could create conflicting regulation between the FCC and various
state and local authorities, which may involve lengthy litigation to resolve and
may result in outcomes unfavorable to us. 

Increasing
competition in our wireline markets could adversely affect wireline operating
margins. 

We expect
competition in the telecommunications industry to continue to intensify. We
expect this competition will continue to put pressure on pricing, margins and
customer retention. A number of our competitors that rely on alternative
technologies (e.g., wireless, cable and VoIP) are typically subject to less (or
no) regulation than our wireline and ATTC subsidiaries and therefore are able to
operate with lower costs. These competitors also have cost advantages compared
to us, due in part to a nonunionized workforce, lower employee benefits and
fewer retirees (as most of the competitors are relatively new companies). We
believe such advantages can be offset by continuing to increase the efficiency
of our operating systems and by improving employee training and productivity;
however, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will be
successful. 

Increasing
competition in the wireless industry could adversely affect our operating
results. 

On
average, we have three to four other wireless competitors in each of our service
areas and compete for customers based principally on price, service/device
offerings, call quality, coverage area and customer service. In addition, we are
likely to experience growing competition from providers offering services using
alternative wireless technologies and IP-based networks as well as traditional
wireline networks. We expect intense industry competition and market saturation
may cause the wireless industry s customer growth rate to moderate in comparison
with historical growth rates. We expect that the availability of additional 700
MHz spectrum could increase competition and the effectiveness of existing
competition. This competition will continue to put pressure on pricing and
margins as companies compete for potential customers. Our ability to respond
will depend, among other things, on continued improvement in network quality and
customer service and effective marketing of attractive products and services,
and cost management. These efforts will involve significant expenses and require
strategic management decisions on, and timely implementation of equipment
choices, marketing plans and financial budgets. 

Equipment failures, natural disasters
and terrorist attacks may materially adversely affect our operations  .  

Major
equipment failures or natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist
acts or other breaches of network or IT security that affect our wireline and
wireless networks, including telephone switching offices, microwave links,
third-party owned local and long-distance networks on which we rely, our cell
sites or other equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our
operations. While we have insurance coverage for some of these events, our
inability to operate our wireline or wireless systems, even for a limited time
period, may result in significant expenses, a loss of customers or impair our
ability to attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

32 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
success of our U-verse services initiative will depend on the timing, extent and
cost of deployment; the development of attractive and profitable service
offerings; the extent to which regulatory, franchise fees and build-out
requirements apply to this initiative; and the availability and reliability of
the various technologies required to provide such offerings. 

The trend
in telecommunications technology is to shift from the traditional circuit- and
wire-based technology to IP-based technology. IP-based technology can transport
voice and data, as well as video, from both wired and wireless networks.
IP-based networks also potentially cost less to operate than traditional
networks. Our competitors, many of which are newer companies, are deploying this
IP-based technology. In order to continue to offer attractive and competitively
priced services, we are deploying a new broadband network to offer IP-based
voice, data and video services. Using a new and sophisticated technology on a
very large scale entails risks but also presents opportunities to expand service
offerings to customers. Should deployment of our network be delayed or costs
exceed expected amounts, our margins would be adversely affected and such
effects could be material. Should regulatory requirements be different than we
anticipated, our deployment could be delayed, perhaps significantly, or limited
to only those geographical areas where regulation is not burdensome. In
addition, should the delivery of services expected to be deployed on our network
be delayed due to technological or regulatory constraints, performance of
suppliers, or other reasons, or the cost of providing such services becomes
higher than expected, customers may decide to purchase services from our
competitors, which would adversely affect our revenues and margins, and such
effects could be material. 

A
majority of our workforce is represented by labor unions. Absent the successful
negotiation of certain agreements, we could experience lengthy work stoppages
when these contracts expire during 2009. 

A
majority of our employees are represented by labor unions as of year-end 2008.
Labor contracts covering many of these employees will expire during 2009. We
experienced a work stoppage in 2004 when the contracts involving our wireline
employees expired, and we may experience additional work stoppages this year. A
work stoppage could adversely affect our business operations, including a loss
of revenue and strained relationships with customers, and we can not predict the
length of any such strike. We can not predict what will be the unions'
requirements for a new contract nor the impact of a new contract on our
financial condition. 

33 

CAUTIONARY
LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Information
set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to
risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially. Many of
these factors are discussed in more detail in the  Risk Factors  section. We
claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided
by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 

The
following factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those
expressed in the forward-looking statements: 

Adverse
      economic and/or capital access changes in the markets served by us or in
      countries in which we have significant investments, including the impact
      on customer demand and our ability to access financial
      markets. 

Changes
      in available technology and the effects of such changes including product
      substitutions and deployment costs. 

Increases
      in our benefit plans  costs including increases due to adverse changes in
      the U.S. and foreign securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed
      investment returns and discount rates, and adverse medical cost
      trends. 

The
      final outcome of Federal Communications Commission proceedings and
      reopenings of such proceedings and judicial review, if any, of such
      proceedings, including issues relating to access charges, broadband
      deployment, unbundled loop and transport elements and wireless
      services. 

The
      final outcome of regulatory proceedings in the states in which we operate
      and reopenings of such proceedings, and judicial review, if any, of such
      proceedings, including proceedings relating to interconnection terms,
      access charges, universal service, unbundled network elements and resale
      and wholesale rates, broadband deployment including our U-verse services,
      performance measurement plans, service standards and traffic
      compensation. 

Enactment
      of additional state, federal and/or foreign regulatory and tax laws and
      regulations pertaining to our subsidiaries and foreign
      investments. 

Our
      ability to absorb revenue losses caused by increasing competition and
      economic pressure, including offerings using alternative technologies
      (e.g., cable, wireless and VoIP), and our ability to maintain capital
      expenditures. 

The
      extent of competition and the resulting pressure on access line totals and
      wireline and wireless operating
margins. 

Our
      ability to develop attractive and profitable product/service offerings to
      offset increasing competition in our wireless and wireline
      markets. 

The
      ability of our competitors to offer product/service offerings at lower
      prices due to lower cost structures and regulatory and legislative actions
      adverse to us, including state regulatory proceedings relating to
      unbundled network elements and nonregulation of comparable alternative
      technologies (e.g., VoIP). 

The
      timing, extent and cost of deployment of our U-verse services (our
      Lightspeed initiative); the development of attractive and profitable
      service offerings; the extent to which regulatory, franchise fees and
      build-out requirements apply to this initiative; and the availability,
      cost and/or reliability of the various technologies and/or content
      required to provide such offerings. 

The
      outcome of pending or threatened litigation including patent claims by or
      against third parties. 

The
      impact on our networks and business of major equipment failures, severe
      weather conditions, natural disasters or terrorist
  attacks. 

The
      issuance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other accounting
      oversight bodies of new accounting standards or changes to existing
      standards. 

The
      issuance by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state tax authorities of
      new tax regulations or changes to existing standards and actions by
      federal, state or local tax agencies and judicial authorities with respect
      to applying applicable tax laws and regulations; and the resolution of
      disputes with any taxing
jurisdictions. 

Our
      ability to adequately fund our wireless operations, including access to
      additional spectrum; network upgrades and technological
      advancements. 

Changes
      in our corporate strategies, such as changing network requirements or
      acquisitions and dispositions, to respond to competition and regulatory,
      legislative and technological
developments. 

Readers
are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not
enumerated here, also could materially affect our future
earnings. 

34 

35 

36 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements. 

37 

38 

Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements 

           Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Basis of
Presentation   Throughout this document, AT T Inc. is
referred to as  AT T,   we  or the  Company.  The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of the Company and our majority-owned
subsidiaries and affiliates. Our subsidiaries and affiliates operate in the
communications services industry throughout the U.S. and internationally,
providing wireless and wireline telecommunications services and equipment as
well as directory advertising and publishing services. 

All
significant intercompany transactions are eliminated in the consolidation
process. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, and
less-than-majority-owned subsidiaries where we have significant influence are
accounted for under the equity method. Earnings from certain foreign equity
investments accounted for using the equity method are included for periods ended
within up to one month of our year end (see Note 7). 

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes, including estimates of probable losses and expenses. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. 

FAS 160   In December
2007, the Fincancial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51  (FAS 160). FAS
160 requires noncontrolling interests held by parties other than the parent in
subsidiaries to be clearly identified, labeled, and presented in the
consolidated statement of financial position within equity, but separate from
the parent s equity. FAS 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008. At December 31, 2008, we had $375 of noncontrolling interests
to be reclassified. 

FAS 141(R)  In December 2007,
the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised
2007),  Business Combinations  (FAS 141(R)). FAS 141(R) is a revision of FAS 141
and requires that costs incurred to effect the acquisition (i.e.,
acquisition-related costs) be recognized separately from the acquisition. In
addition, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
141,  Business Combinations  (FAS 141), restructuring costs that the acquirer
expected but was not obligated to incur, which included changes to benefit
plans, were recognized as if they were a liability assumed at the acquisition
date. FAS 141(R) requires the acquirer to recognize those costs separately from
the business combination. FAS 141(R) is effective for us in 2009, and its impact
will vary with each acquisition. 

FAS 161   In March
2008, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161,
 Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment
of FASB Statement No. 133  (FAS 161). FAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures
about an entity s derivative and hedging activities to improve the transparency
of financial reporting. It is effective for financial statements issued for
fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. FAS 161 is
expected to increase quarterly and annual disclosures but will not have an
impact on our financial position and results of operations. 

FSP 157-3   In
October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 157-3,  Determining the Fair
Value of a Financial Asset When the Market of that Asset is not Active  (FSP
157-3). FSP 157-3 provides an example that clarifies and reiterates certain
provisions of the existing fair value standard, including basing fair value on
orderly transactions and usage of management and broker inputs. FSP 157-3 is
effective immediately but is not expected to have a material impact on our
financial position or results of operations. 

FSP FAS 142-3    In April 2008, the FASB
issued FASB Staff Position FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of
Intangible Assets  (FSP FAS 142-3). FSP FAS 142-3 amends the factors that should
be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine
the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  FSP FAS 142-3 is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and
interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the
impact that FSP FAS 142-3 will have on our accounting for intangible
assets. 

FSP FAS 1  32(R)-  1    In December 2008, the
FASB issued FASB Staff Position FAS 132(R)-1,  Employers  Disclosures about
Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  (FSP FAS 132(R)-1). FSP FAS 132(R)-1 amends
FASB Statement No. 132(R),  Employers  Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefit  (FAS 132(R)). This FASB Staff Position replaces the
requirement to disclose the percentage of fair value of total plan assets with a
requirement to disclose the fair value of each major asset category. It also
amends FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (FAS 157), to clarify
that defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan assets are not subject
to FAS 157 s disclosure requirements. FSP FAS 132(R)-1 is effective for fiscal
years ending after December 2009. This FSP will significantly increase the
amount of disclosures for plan assets in our 2009 Annual Report. 

39 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued) 

           Dollars in millions except per share amounts

EITF 08-6   In
November 2008, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on EITF
08-6,  Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations.  EITF 08-6 provides
guidance on the application of the equity method. It states equity-method
investments should be recognized using a cost accumulation model. Also, it
requires that equity method investments as a whole be assessed for
other-than-temporary impairment in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 18. EITF 08-6 is effective on a prospective basis for transactions
in an investee s shares occurring or impairments recognized in fiscal years, and
interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15,
2008. This EITF will not have a material impact on our financial position and
results of operations. 

EITF 08-7   In
November 2008, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF 08-7,  Accounting for
Defensive Intangible Assets.  EITF 08-7 provides that intangible assets that an
acquirer intends to use as defensive assets, intangible assets acquired in a
business combination or an asset acquisition that an entity does not intend to
actively use but does intend to prevent others from using, are a separate unit
of account from the existing intangible assets of the acquirer. It also states
that a defensive intangible asset should be amortized over the period that the
fair value of the defensive intangible asset diminishes. EITF 08-7 is effective
on a prospective basis for transactions occurring in fiscal years, and interim
periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. This
EITF will require AT T to recognize at fair value certain assets associated
with trademarks for the non-surviving companies of acquisitions and amortize
these trademarks over the period they are expected to contribute directly or
indirectly to the entity s future cash flows. 

Valuation and Other
Adjustments  Included in the current liabilities reported on our
consolidated balance sheet are accruals established under EITF 95-3,
 Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination 
(EITF 95-3). The liabilities include accruals for severance, lease terminations
and equipment removal costs associated with our acquisitions of AT T Corp.,
BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth) and Dobson Communications Corporation.
Following is a summary of the accruals recorded under EITF 95-3 at December 31,
2007, cash payments made during 2008 and the adjustments thereto. 

Split-Dollar Life
Insurance   In 2007, the EITF ratified the consensus on EITF
06-4,  Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects
of Endorsement Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements  (EITF 06-4) and EITF
06-10  Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance
Arrangements  (EITF 06-10). EITF 06-4 and EITF 06-10 cover split-dollar life
insurance arrangements (where the company owns and controls the policy) and
provides that an employer should recognize a liability for future benefits in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106,  Employers 
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions  (FAS 106). These are
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. We adopted EITF
06-4 and EITF 06-10 on January 1, 2008, recording additional postretirement
liabilities of $101 and a decrease to retained earnings of $63. 

Reclassifications   We
have reclassified certain amounts in prior-period financial statements to
conform to the current period s presentation. 

40 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued) 

           Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Income Taxes   We
adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48) on January 1, 2007. With our adoption
of FIN 48, we provide deferred income taxes for temporary differences between
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes
and the tax basis of assets and liabilities computed pursuant to FIN 48. Under
FIN 48, the tax bases of assets and liabilities are based on amounts that meet
the FIN 48 recognition threshold and are measured pursuant to the measurement
requirement in FIN 48. To the extent allowed by GAAP, we provide valuation
allowances against the deferred tax assets for which the realization is
uncertain. We review these items regularly in light of changes in federal and
state tax laws and changes in our business. 

Investment
tax credits earned prior to their repeal by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 are
amortized as reductions in income tax expense over the lives of the assets,
which gave rise to the credits. Additionally, we report taxes imposed by
governmental authorities on revenue-producing transactions between us and our
customers in the income statement on a net basis. 

Cash
Equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents include all
highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and
the carrying amounts  approximate fair value. At December 31, 2008, we held $958
in cash and $834 in money market funds and other cash equivalents. 

Investment
Securities   Investments in securities principally consist of
available-for-sale instruments. Short-term and long-term investments in money
market securities are carried as held-to-maturity securities. Available-for-sale
securities consist of various debt and equity securities that are long term in
nature. Unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, on available-for-sale
securities are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. Our
investment securities maturing within one year are recorded in  Other current
assets  and instruments with maturities of more than one year are recorded in
 Other Assets  on the consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized losses that are
considered other than temporary are recorded in Other Income (Expense) with the
corresponding reduction to the carrying basis of the investment (see Note
11). 

Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (FAS
157) requires disclosures for financial assets and liabilities that are
remeasured at fair value at least annually. FAS 157 establishes a three-tier
fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value.
These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices
in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active
markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined
as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore
requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Substantially all of our
available-for-sale securities are valued using quoted market prices (referred to
as Level 1). Adjustments to fair value are recorded in other comprehensive
income until the investment is sold or they are impaired (see Note 2). The fair
market value of these securities was $1,632 at December 31, 2008. 

Revenue
Recognition   Revenues derived from wireless, local telephone,
long-distance, data and video services are recognized when services are
provided. This is based upon either usage (e.g., minutes of traffic processed),
period of time (e.g., monthly service fees) or other established fee schedules.
Our wireless service revenues are billed either in advance, arrears or are
prepaid. Our wireless Rollover    rate
plans include a feature whereby unused anytime minutes do not expire each month
but rather are available, under certain conditions, for future use for a period
not to exceed one year from the date of purchase. Using historical subscriber
usage patterns, we defer these revenues based on an estimate of the portion of
unused minutes expected to be utilized prior to expiration. 

We record
an estimated revenue reduction for future adjustments to customer accounts,
other than a provision for doubtful accounts, at the time revenue is recognized
based on historical experience. Service revenues also include billings to our
customers for various regulatory fees imposed on us by governmental authorities.
Cash incentives given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. When
required as part of providing service, revenues and associated expenses related
to nonrefundable, upfront service activation and setup fees are deferred and
recognized over the associated service contract period. If no service contract
exists, those fees are recognized over the average customer relationship period.
Associated expenses are deferred only to the extent of such deferred revenue.
For contracts that involve the bundling of services, revenue is allocated to the
services based on their relative fair value. We record the sale of equipment to
customers as gross revenue when we are the primary obligor in the arrangement,
when title is passed and when the products are accepted by customers. For
agreements involving the resale of third-party services in which we are not
considered the primary obligor of the arrangement, we record the revenue net of
the associated costs incurred. For contracts in which we provide customers with
an indefeasible right to use network capacity, we recognize revenue ratably over
the stated life of the agreement. 

41 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued) 

           Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We
recognize revenues and expenses related to publishing directories on the
amortization method, which recognizes revenues and expenses ratably over the
life of the directory title, typically 12 months. 

Traffic Compensation
Expense   We use various estimates and assumptions to determine
the amount of traffic compensation expenses recognized during any reporting
period. Switched traffic compensation costs are accrued utilizing estimated
rates by product, formulated from historical data and adjusted for known rate
changes and volume levels. Such estimates are adjusted monthly to reflect
newly-available information, such as rate changes and new contractual
agreements. Bills reflecting actual incurred information are generally not
received until three to nine months subsequent to the end of the reporting
period, at which point a final adjustment is made to the accrued switched
traffic compensation expense. Dedicated traffic compensation costs are estimated
based on the number of circuits and the average projected circuit costs. These
costs are adjusted to reflect actual expenses over the three months following
the end of the reporting period as bills are received. 

Allowance for
Uncollectibles   We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts
for estimated losses that result from the failure or inability of our customers
to make required payments. When determining the allowance, we consider the
probability of recoverability of accounts receivable based on past experience,
taking into account current collection trends as well as general economic
factors, including bankruptcy rates. Credit risks are assessed based on
historical write-offs, net of recoveries, as well as an analysis of the aged
accounts receivable balances with reserves generally increasing as the
receivable ages. Accounts receivable may be fully reserved for when specific
collection issues are known to exist, such as pending bankruptcy or
catastrophes. The analysis of receivables is performed monthly and the bad-debt
allowances are adjusted accordingly. 

Inventory   Inventories
are included in  Other current assets  on our consolidated balance sheet and
were $862 and $1,119 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Wireless
handsets and accessories, which are valued at the lower of cost or market value
(determined using current replacement cost) amount to $749 and $836 for the
years 2008 and 2007. The remainder of our inventory includes new and reusable
supplies and network equipment of our local telephone operations, which are
stated principally at average original cost, except that specific costs are used
in the case of large individual items. Inventories of our other subsidiaries are
stated at the lower of cost or market. 

Property, Plant and
Equipment   Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost,
except for assets acquired using purchase accounting, which are recorded at fair
value (see Note 2). The cost of additions and substantial improvements to
property, plant and equipment is capitalized. The cost of maintenance and
repairs of property, plant and equipment is charged to operating expenses.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated using straight-line methods over
their estimated economic lives. Certain subsidiaries follow composite group
depreciation methodology; accordingly, when a portion of their depreciable
property, plant and equipment is retired in the ordinary course of business, the
gross book value is reclassified to accumulated depreciation; no gain or loss is
recognized on the disposition of this plant. 

Property,
plant and equipment is reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An
impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying   amount of a long-lived
asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of a
long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted
cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the
asset. 

The fair
value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation is recorded in the
period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be
made. In periods subsequent to initial measurement, period-to-period changes in
the liability for an asset retirement obligation resulting from the passage of
time and revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate
of undiscounted cash flows are recognized. The increase in the carrying value of
the associated long-lived asset is depreciated over the corresponding estimated
economic life. 

Software Costs   It
is our policy to capitalize certain costs incurred in connection with developing
or obtaining internal-use software. Capitalized software costs are included in
 Property, Plant and Equipment  on our consolidated balance sheets and are
primarily amortized over a three-year period. Software costs that do not meet
capitalization criteria are expensed immediately. 

42 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued) 

           Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets   Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid
over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Goodwill
and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are tested at
least annually for impairment. We have completed our annual impairment testing
for 2008 and determined that no impairment exists. 

Intangible
assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives, a
weighted average of 7.4 years. Customer relationships are amortized using
primarily the sum-of-the-months-digits method of amortization over the expected
period in which those relationships are expected to contribute to our future
cash flows based in such a way as to allocate it as equitably as possible to
periods during which we expect to benefit from those relationships. 

A
significant portion of intangible assets in our wireless segment are Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) licenses that provide us with the exclusive
right to utilize certain radio frequency spectrum to provide wireless
communications services. While FCC licenses are issued for a fixed time,
renewals of FCC licenses have occurred routinely and at nominal cost. Moreover,
we have determined that there are currently no legal, regulatory, contractual,
competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful lives of our FCC
licenses, and therefore the FCC licenses are an indefinite-lived intangible
asset under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  

In
accordance with EITF No. 02-7,  Unit of Accounting for Testing Impairment of
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets,    we test FCC licenses
for impairment on an aggregate basis, consistent with the management of the
business on a national scope. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed
the annual impairment tests for indefinite-lived FCC licenses. These annual
impairment tests resulted in no impairment of indefinite-lived FCC
licenses. 

Advertising
Costs   Advertising costs for advertising products and services
or for promoting our corporate image are expensed as incurred. 

Foreign Currency
Translation   Our foreign investments and foreign subsidiaries
generally report their earnings in their local currencies. We translate our
share of their foreign assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the
balance sheet dates. We translate our share of their revenues and expenses using
average rates during the year. The resulting foreign currency translation
adjustments are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Gains and
losses resulting from exchange-rate changes on transactions denominated in a
currency other than the local currency are included in earnings as
incurred. 

We have
also entered into foreign currency contracts to minimize our exposure to risk of
adverse changes in currency exchange rates. We are subject to foreign exchange
risk for foreign currency-denominated transactions, such as debt issued,
recognized payables and receivables and forecasted transactions. At December 31,
2008, our foreign currency exposures were principally Mexican pesos, Euros,
Danish krone, Swedish krona and Canadian dollars. 

Derivative Financial
Instruments   We record derivatives on the balance sheet at fair
value. We do not invest in derivatives for trading purposes. We use derivatives
from time to time as part of our strategy to manage risks associated with our
contractual commitments. These derivatives are designated as either a hedge of
the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm
commitment (fair value hedge), or a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the
variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset
or liability (cash flow hedge). Our derivative financial instruments primarily
include interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency exchange contracts.
For example, we use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to changes in
interest rates on our debt obligations (see Note 9). We account for our interest
rate swaps using mark-to-market accounting and include gains or losses from
interest rate swaps when paid or received in interest expense in our
consolidated statements of income. Amounts paid or received on interest rate
forward contracts are amortized over the period of the related interest
payments. 

All other
derivatives are not formally designated for accounting purposes (undesignated).
These derivatives, although undesignated for accounting purposes, are entered
into to hedge economic risks. 

43 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued) 

           Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We record
changes in the fair value of fair value hedges, along with the changes in the
fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged
risk. Gains or losses upon termination of our fair value hedges are recognized
as interest expense when the hedge instrument is settled. 

We record
changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, along with the changes in the
fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged
risk, in  Accumulated other comprehensive income,  which is a component of
Stockholders' Equity. This includes the foreign currency contracts noted above.
The settlement gains or costs on our cash flow hedges are amortized as interest
expense over the term of the interest payments of the related debt
issuances. 

Changes
in the fair value of undesignated derivatives are recorded in other income
(expense), net, along with the change in fair value of the underlying asset or
liability, as applicable. 

Cash
flows associated with derivative instruments are presented in the same category
on the consolidated statements of cash flows as the item being
hedged. 

When
hedge accounting is discontinued, the derivative is adjusted for changes in fair
value through other income (expense), net. For fair value hedges, the underlying
asset or liability will no longer be adjusted for changes in fair value, and any
asset or liability recorded in connection with the hedging relationship
(including firm commitments) will be removed from the balance sheet and recorded
in current-period earnings. For cash flow hedges, gains and losses that were
accumulated in other comprehensive income as a component of stockholders' equity
in connection with hedged assets or liabilities or forecasted transactions will
be recognized in other income (expense) - net, in the same period the hedged
item affects earnings. 

Employee
Separations   In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 112,  Employers  Accounting for Postemployment
Benefits,  (FAS 112) we establish obligations for expected termination benefits
provided under existing plans to former or inactive employees after employment
but before retirement. These benefits include severance payments, workers 
compensation, disability, medical continuation coverage and other benefits. At
December 31, 2008, we had severance accruals under FAS 112 of $752. At December
31, 2007, we had severance accruals of $127. 

Pension and Postretirement
Benefits   See Note 11 for a comprehensive discussion of our
pension and postretirement benefit expense, including a discussion of the
actuarial assumptions. 

NOTE
2.  ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS, VALUATION AND OTHER
ADJUSTMENTS  

Acquisitions 

       Dobson   In November
2007, we acquired Dobson Communications Corporation (Dobson) for approximately
$2,500. Under the purchase method of accounting, the transaction was valued, for
accounting purposes, at $2,580. Our December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet
included the preliminary valuation of the fair value of Dobson s assets and
liabilities, including goodwill of $2,623, licenses of $2,230, customer lists of
$517 and other intangible assets totaling $8 associated with this transaction.
Final adjustments to the preliminary valuation included an increase to goodwill
of $990, a decrease in licenses of $781 and a decrease in customer lists of $12.
The resulting balances are $3,613 for goodwill, $1,449 for licenses and $505 for
customer lists. Adjustments were primarily related to changes in the valuation
of certain licenses and an increase in the estimate of relative obsolescence of
property, plant and equipment resulting in a decrease in value and shorter
average remaining economic life, and an adjustment to the value of the markets
included in the divestiture order by the FCC. Pursuant to the order, we
exchanged certain properties, spectrum and $355 in cash for other licenses and
properties. Deferred tax adjustments are associated with the above-mentioned
items. Dobson marketed wireless services under the Cellular One brand and had
provided roaming services to AT T subsidiaries since 1990. Dobson had 1.7
million subscribers across 17 states. Dobson s operations were incorporated into
our wireless operations following the date of acquisition. 

BellSouth
Corporation   In December 2006, we acquired BellSouth under FAS
141, issuing 2.4 billion shares. BellSouth was the leading communications
service provider in the southeastern U.S., providing wireline communications
services, including local exchange, network access, long-distance services and
Internet services to substantial portions of the population across nine states.
BellSouth also provided long-distance services to enterprise customers
throughout the country. 

44 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued) 

             Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We and
BellSouth jointly owned AT T Mobility and the Internet-based publisher
YELLOWPAGES.COM (YPC). In the AT T Mobility joint venture, we held a 60%
economic interest and BellSouth held a 40% economic interest, and in the YPC
joint venture, we held a 66% economic interest and BellSouth held a 34% economic
interest. For each joint venture, control was shared equally. We and BellSouth
each accounted for the joint ventures under the equity method of accounting,
recording the proportional share of AT T Mobility s and YPC s income as
equity in net income of affiliates on the respective consolidated statements of
income and reporting the ownership percentage of AT T Mobility s net assets
as  Investments in and Advances to AT T Mobility  and the ownership
percentage of YPC s net assets as  Investments in Equity Affiliates  on the
respective consolidated balance sheets. After the BellSouth acquisition,
BellSouth, AT T Mobility and YPC became wholly-owned subsidiaries of
AT T, and the operational results of these companies have been included in
our consolidated financial statements since the December 29, 2006 acquisition
date. 

Under the
purchase method of accounting, the transaction was valued, for accounting
purposes, at approximately $66,800 and the assets and liabilities of BellSouth
were recorded at their respective fair value at the date of
acquisition. 

Other
Acquisitions   During 2008, we acquired Easterbrooke Cellular
Corporation, Windstream Wireless, Wayport Inc. and the remaining 64% of Edge
Wireless for a combined $663, recording $449 in goodwill. The acquisitions of
these companies are designed to expand our wireless and Wi-Fi coverage
area. 

During
2007, we acquired Interwise   , a
global provider of voice, Web and video conferencing services to businesses, for
$122 and Ingenio   , a
provider of Pay Per Call   
technology for directory and local search business, for $195, net of cash. We
recorded $304 of goodwill related to these acquisitions. 

During
2006, we acquired Comergent Technologies, Nistevo Corporation and
USinternetworking, Inc., for a combined $500, recording $333 in goodwill. The
acquisitions of these companies are designed to enhance our service offerings
for Web hosting and application management. 

Dispositions 

      In April
2008, we sold to Local Insight Regatta Holdings, Inc., the parent company of
Local Insight Yellow Pages, the Independent Line of Business segment of the L.M.
Berry Company for $230. 

In May
2007, we sold to Clearwire Corporation (Clearwire), a national provider of
wireless broadband Internet access, education broadband service spectrum and
broadband radio service spectrum valued at $300. Sale of this spectrum was
required as a condition to the approval of our acquisition of
BellSouth. 

Other
Adjustments 

      As ATTC
and BellSouth stock options that were converted at the time of the respective
acquisitions are exercised, the tax effect on those options may further reduce
goodwill. During 2008, we recorded $1 in related goodwill reductions for ATTC
and $9 for BellSouth. 

45 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued) 

           Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE
3.  EARNINGS PER SHARE 

A
reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of basic earnings per share
and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006 are shown in the table below: 

At
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we had issued and outstanding options to
purchase approximately 204 million, 231 million and 309 million shares of
AT T common stock. The exercise prices of options to purchase a
weighted-average of 144 million, 93 million and 201 million shares in 2008, 2007
and 2006 exceeded the average market price of AT T stock. Accordingly, we
did not include these amounts in determining the dilutive potential common
shares for the respective periods. At December 31, 2008, the exercise price of
20 million share options was below market price. 

46 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued) 

           Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION 

Our
segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services
and are managed accordingly. We analyze our various operating segments based on
segment income before income taxes. Interest expense, interest income and other
income (expense)   net are managed only on a total company basis and are,
accordingly, reflected only in consolidated results. The wireless segment
includes minority interest reported as other income (expense)   net in the
consolidated statements of income. Therefore, these items are not included in
the calculation of each segment s percentage of our consolidated results. As a
result of the December 29, 2006 acquisition of BellSouth we have revised our
segment reporting to represent how we now manage our business, restating prior
periods to conform to the current segments. The customers and long-lived assets
of our reportable segments are predominantly in the United States. We have four
reportable segments: (1) wireless, (2) wireline, (3) advertising
  publishing and (4) other. 

The
wireless segment provides voice, data and other wireless communications
services, and includes 100% of the results of AT T Mobility, which was our
wireless joint venture with BellSouth prior to the December 29, 2006 acquisition
and is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T. Prior to the acquisition, we
analyzed AT T Mobility s revenues and expenses under the wireless segment,
and we eliminated the wireless segment in our consolidated financial statements.
In our 2006 and prior consolidated financial statements we reported our 60%
proportionate share of AT T Mobility s results as equity in net income of
affiliates. 

The
wireline segment provides both retail and wholesale landline communications
services, including local and long-distance voice, switched access, Internet
protocol and Internet access data, messaging services, managed networking to
business customers, AT T U-verse SM  TV
service and satellite television services through our agency agreements with
EchoStar Communications Corp. (EchoStar) and the DIRECTV Group,
Inc. 

The
advertising   publishing segment includes our directory operations, which
publish Yellow and White Pages directories and sell directory advertising and
Internet-based advertising and local search. This segment includes the results
of YPC, which was a joint venture with BellSouth prior to the December 29, 2006
acquisition and is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T. For segment
reporting disclosure, we have carried forward the deferred revenue and deferred
cost balances for BellSouth at the acquisition date in order to reflect how the
segment is managed. This is different for consolidated reporting purposes as
under FAS 141, BellSouth deferred revenue and expenses from directories
published during the 12-month period ending with the December 29, 2006
acquisition date, are not recognized and therefore were not included in the
opening balance sheet. For management reporting purposes, we continue to
amortize these balances over the life of the directory. Thus, our advertising
  publishing segment results in 2007 include revenue of $964 and expenses of
$308, related to directories published in the Southeast region during 2006,
prior to our acquisition of BellSouth. These amounts are eliminated in the
consolidations and eliminations column in the following
reconciliation. 

The other
segment includes results from Sterling Commerce, Inc., customer information
services and all corporate and other operations. This segment includes our
portion of the results from our international equity investments. Also included
in the other segment are impacts of corporate wide decisions for which the
individual operating segments are not being evaluated. Prior to December 29,
2006, this segment also included our results from AT T Mobility as equity in
net income of affiliates, as discussed above. 

In the
following tables, we show how our segment results are reconciled to our
consolidated results reported in accordance with GAAP. The Wireless, Wireline,
Advertising   Publishing and Other columns represent the segment results of
each such operating segment. The Consolidation and Elimination column adds in
those line items that we manage on a consolidated basis only: interest expense,
interest income and other income (expense)   net. This column also
eliminates any intercompany transactions included in each segment s results as
well as the advertising   publishing revenue and expenses in 2007 related to
directories published in the Southeast region during 2006, mentioned previously.
In 2006, since our 60% share of the results from AT T Mobility is already
included in the Other column, the Wireless Elimination column removes the
non-consolidated results shown in the wireless segment. In the  Segment assets 
line item, we have eliminated the value of our investments in our fully
consolidated subsidiaries and the intercompany financing assets as these have no
impact to the segments  operations. 

47 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued) 

           Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Segment
results, including a reconciliation to AT T consolidated results, for 2008,
2007 and 2006 are as follows: 

48 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

49 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

Property,
plant and equipment is summarized as follows at December 31: 

Our
depreciation expense was $15,313 in 2008, $15,625 in 2007 and $8,874 in
2006. 

Certain
facilities and equipment used in operations are leased under operating or
capital leases. Rental expenses under operating leases were $2,733 for 2008,
$2,566 for 2007 and $869 for 2006. At December 31, 2008, the future
minimum rental payments under noncancelable operating leases for the years 2009
through 2013 was $2,382, $2,182, $1,951, $1,763 and $1,596 with $10,570 due
thereafter. Certain real estate operating leases contain renewal options that
may be exercised. Capital leases are not significant. 

American
Tower Corp. Agreement 

In August
2000, we reached an agreement with American Tower Corp. (American Tower) under
which we granted American Tower the exclusive rights to lease space on a number
of our communications towers. In exchange, we received a combination of cash and
equity instruments as complete prepayment of rent with the closing of each
leasing agreement. The value of the prepayments were recorded as deferred
revenue and recognized in income as revenue over the life of the leases. The
balance of deferred revenue was $539 in 2008, $569 in 2007 and $598 in
2006. 

NOTE
6. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Changes
in the carrying amounts of goodwill, by segment, for the years ended December
31, 2008 and 2007, are as follows: 

Segment
goodwill is tested annually for impairment, with any impairments being expensed
in that period s income statement. During our allocation period, we completed
purchase accounting adjustments to the AT T Mobility and BellSouth goodwill
in 2007 and Dobson goodwill in 2008 (see Note 2). Other changes to goodwill
include adjustments totaling $10 in 2008 for the tax effect of stock options
exercised. 

50 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Our other
intangible assets are summarized as follows: 

Amortized
intangible assets are definite-life assets, and as such, we record amortization
expense based on a method that most appropriately reflects our expected cash
flows from these assets with a weighted-average amortization period of 7.4 years
(7.3 years for customer lists and relationships and 9.6 years for other).
Amortization expense for definite-life intangible assets was $4,570, $5,952 and
$1,033 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Amortization expense is estimated to be $3,670 in 2009, $2,840 in 2010, $1,890
in 2011, $1,230 in 2012 and $670 in 2013. 

Licenses
include FCC licenses of $47,267 and $37,948 at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, that provide us with the exclusive right to utilize certain radio
frequency spectrum to provide wireless communications services. While FCC
licenses are issued for a fixed time, renewals of FCC licenses have occurred
routinely and at nominal cost. Moreover, we have determined that there are
currently no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other
factors that limit the useful lives of our FCC licenses and therefore, treat the
FCC licenses as indefinite-lived intangible assets. 

NOTE
7. EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS 

Investments
in partnerships, joint ventures and less-than majority-owned subsidiaries in
which we have significant influence are accounted for under the equity method.
Until our acquisition of BellSouth in December 2006 (see Note 2), we accounted
for our 60% economic interest in AT T Mobility under the equity method since
we shared control equally with BellSouth, our 40% economic partner. We had equal
voting rights and representation on the board of directors that controlled
AT T Mobility. As a result of the BellSouth acquisition, AT T Mobility
became a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT T and is reported in our wireless
segment and our consolidated statements of income. 

AT T
Mobility   Beginning December 29, 2006, we have reported
AT T Mobility as a wholly-owned subsidiary. 

51 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
following table presents summarized operating results for AT T Mobility
prior to the December 29, 2006 BellSouth acquisition: 

Other Equity Method Investments
 Our investments in equity affiliates include primarily international
investments. As of December 31, 2008, our investments in equity affiliates
included a 9.7% interest in Tel fonos de M xico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex), Mexico s
national telecommunications company, and an 8.6% interest in Am rica M vil S.A.
de C.V. (Am rica M vil), primarily a wireless provider in Mexico with
telecommunications investments in the United States and Latin America. In 2007,
Telmex s Board of Directors and shareholders approved a strategic initiative to
split off its Latin American businesses and its Mexican yellow pages business to
a new holding company, Telmex Internacional S.A.B. de C.V. (Telmex
Internacional). Our investment in Telmex Internacional is 9.8%. We are a member
of consortiums that hold all of the class AA shares of Telmex, Am rica M vil and
Telmex Internacional. In each case, another member of the consortium has the
right to appoint a majority of the directors. 

The
following table is a reconciliation of our investments in equity affiliates as
presented on our consolidated balance sheets: 

Undistributed
earnings from equity affiliates were $2,989 and $2,335 at December 31, 2008
and 2007. The currency translation adjustment for 2008 and 2007 primarily
reflects the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our investments in Telmex,
Telmex Internacional and Am rica M vil. 

The fair
value of our investment in Telmex, based on the equivalent value of Telmex L
shares at December 31, 2008, was $1,884. The fair value of our investment in
Am rica M vil, based on the equivalent value of Am rica M vil L shares at
December 31, 2008, was $4,447. The fair value of our investment in Telmex
Internacional, based on the equivalent value of Telmex Internacional L shares at
December 31, 2008, was $1,022. 

52 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
8. DEBT 

Long-term
debt of AT T and its subsidiaries, including interest rates and maturities,
is summarized as follows at December 31: 

We have
debt instruments that may require us to repurchase the debt or which may alter
the interest rate associated with that debt. We have $1,000 of Puttable Reset
Securities (PURS) at 5.0% maturing in 2021 with an annual put option by the
holder. If the holders of our PURS do not require us to repurchase the
securities, the interest rate will be reset based on current market conditions.
Since these securities can be put to us annually, the balance is included in
current maturities of long-term debt in our balance sheet. 

Beginning
in May 2009, our $500 zero-coupon puttable note may be presented for redemption
by the holder at specified dates, but not more frequently than annually,
excluding 2011. If the note is held to maturity in 2022, the redemption amount
will be $1,030. 

As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, we were in compliance with all covenants and
conditions of instruments governing our debt. Substantially all of our
outstanding long-term debt is unsecured. Excluding capitalized leases and the
effect of interest rate swaps, the aggregate principal amounts of long-term debt
and the corresponding weighted-average interest rate scheduled for repayment are
as follows: 

Financing
Activities 

Debt   During 2008,
debt repayments totaled $4,010 and consisted of: 

$66
      related to repayments of Edge Wireless term
  loan. 

$29
      related to scheduled principal payments on other debt and repayments of
      other borrowings. 

53 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

During
2008, we received net proceeds of $12,416 from the issuance of $12,475 in
long-term debt. Debt proceeds were used for general corporate purposes and parts
of the proceeds were used for repurchases of our common stock. Long-term debt
issuances consisted of: 

$2,000
      of floating rate notes due 2010 in a private offering, which can be
      redeemed by the holder early (which is classified as debt maturing in one
      year). 

Debt
maturing within one year consists of the following at December 31: 

1  

Primarily
      represents borrowings, the availability of which is contingent on the
      level of cash held by some of our foreign
  subsidiaries. 

The
weighted-average interest rate on commercial paper debt at December 31,
2008 and 2007 was 1.1% and 4.2%, respectively. 

In
February of 2009, we issued $1,000 of 4.85% global notes due 2014, $2,250 of
5.8% global notes due 2019 and $2,250 of 6.55% global notes due
2039. 

Credit Facility   We
have a five-year $10,000 credit agreement with a syndicate of investment and
commercial banks, which we have the right to increase up to an additional
$2,000, provided no event of default under the credit agreement has occurred.
One of the participating banks is Lehman Brothers Bank, Inc., which recently
declared bankruptcy. We are unable to determine the status of its stated
commitment of $595 at this time. The current agreement will expire in July 2011.
We also have the right to terminate, in whole or in part, amounts committed by
the lenders under this agreement in excess of any outstanding advances; however,
any such terminated commitments may not be reinstated. Advances under this
agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, including support of
commercial paper borrowings and other short-term borrowings. There is no
material adverse change provision governing the drawdown of advances under this
credit agreement. This agreement contains a negative pledge covenant, which
requires that, if at any time we or a subsidiary pledge assets or otherwise
permits a lien on its properties, advances under this agreement will be ratably
secured, subject to specified exceptions. We must maintain a debt-to-EBITDA
(earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and
other modifications described in the agreement) financial ratio covenant of not
more than three-to-one as of the last day of each fiscal quarter for the four
quarters then ended. We comply with all covenants under the agreement. We had no
borrowings outstanding under committed lines of credit as of
December 31, 2008 or 2007. 

Defaults
under the agreement, which would permit the lenders to accelerate required
payment, include nonpayment of principal or interest beyond any applicable grace
period; failure by AT T or any subsidiary to pay when due other debt above a
threshold amount that results in acceleration of that debt (commonly referred to
as  cross-acceleration ) or commencement by a creditor of enforcement
proceedings within a specified period after a money judgment above a threshold
amount has become final; acquisition by any person of beneficial ownership of
more than 50% of AT T common shares or a change of more than a majority of
AT T s directors in any 24-month period other than as elected by the
remaining directors (commonly referred to as a  change-of-control  material
breaches of representations in the agreement; failure to comply with the
negative pledge or debt-to-EBITDA ratio covenants described above; failure to
comply with other covenants for a specified period after notice; failure by
AT T or certain affiliates to make certain minimum funding payments under
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA); and
specified events of bankruptcy or insolvency. 

54 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
9. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

The
carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our long-term debt, including
current maturities, and other financial instruments, are summarized as follows
at December 31: 

The fair
values of our notes and debentures were estimated based on quoted market prices,
where available, or on the net present value method of expected future cash
flows using current interest rates. The carrying value of debt with an original
maturity of less than one year approximates market value. 

Our
available-for-sale equity securities are carried at fair value, and realized
gains and losses on these equity securities were included in  Other income
(expense)   net  in the consolidated statements of income. The fair value of our
available-for-sale equity securities was principally determined based on quoted
market prices, and the carrying amount of the remaining securities approximates
fair value. 

Our
short-term investments, other short-term and long-term held-to-maturity
investments and customer deposits are recorded at amortized cost, and the
carrying amounts approximate fair values. We held other short-term marketable
securities of $25 at December 31, 2008 compared to $1 at December 31,
2007. 

Derivatives   We use
interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts and foreign currency
exchange contracts to manage our market risk changes in interest rates and
foreign exchange rates. We do not use financial instruments for trading or
speculative purposes. Each swap matches the exact maturity dates of the
underlying debt to which they are related, allowing for perfectly-effective
hedges. Each utilized forward contract matches the interest payments of the
underlying debt to which they are related, allowing for perfectly-effective
hedges. 

Interest Rate Swaps    We had fair value
interest rate swaps with a notional value of $5,750 at December 31, 2008, and
$3,250 at December 31, 2007, with a net carrying and fair value asset of $564
and $88, respectively. 

Interest Rate Foreign Currency
Swaps   We have combined interest rate foreign currency swap
agreements for Euro-denominated debt and British pound sterling-denominated
debt, which hedge our risk to both interest rate and currency movements. In
April 2008, we entered into fixed-to-fixed cross-currency swaps on
Euro-denominated debt instruments with a U.S. dollar notional value of $1,975 to
hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These hedges
include initial and final exchanges of principal from fixed foreign
denominations to fixed U.S.-denominated amounts, to be exchanged at a specified
rate, which was determined by the market spot rate upon issuance. They also
include an interest rate swap of a fixed foreign-denominated rate to a fixed
U.S.-denominated interest rate. These derivatives have been designated at
inception and qualify as cash flow hedges with a net fair value of $(930) at
December 31, 2008. These swaps are valued using current market quotes, which
were obtained from dealers. 

Interest Rate
Locks   We entered into interest rate forward contracts to
partially hedge interest expense related to our debt issuances. At December 31,
2008, we carried an unutilized interest rate lock with a notional value of $250
and a fair value of $7. During 2009, we expect to reclassify into earnings net
settlement expenses of approximately $12 to $16, net of tax. The following table
summarizes our interest rate lock activity: 

55 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Foreign Currency Forward
Contracts   We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to
manage our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates related to foreign
currency-denominated transactions. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our foreign
exchange contracts consisted principally of Mexican pesos, Euros, Danish krone,
Swedish krona and Canadian dollars. At December 31, 2008, the notional amounts
under contract were $243, of which none were designated as net investment
hedges. At December 31, 2007, the notional amounts under contract were $345, of
which none were designated as net investment hedges. The remaining contracts in
both periods were not designated for accounting purposes. At December 31, 2008
and 2007, these foreign exchange contracts had a net carrying and fair value
asset of less than $14 and fair value liability of less than $3, respectively.
These contracts were valued using current market quotes, which were obtained
from independent sources. 

NOTE
10. INCOME TAXES 

Significant
components of our deferred tax liabilities (assets) are as follows at December
31: 

At
December 31, 2008, we had combined net operating and capital loss carryforwards
(tax effected) for federal, and for state and foreign income tax purposes of
$673 and $1,142, respectively, expiring through 2027. The federal net operating
loss carryforward primarily relates to the acquisitions of AT T Wireless
Services, Inc. in 2004 and Dobson in 2007. Additionally, we had federal and
state credit carryforwards of $105 and $300, respectively, expiring primarily
through 2025. 

We
recognize a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence,
it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of a deferred tax asset
will not be realized. Our valuation allowances at December 31, 2007 and 2008
relate primarily to state net operating loss carryforwards. 

On
January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and, as required, we reclassified $6,225 from
net deferred tax liabilities to unrecognized tax benefits. As a result of the
implementation of FIN 48, we recognized a $50 increase in the liability for
unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as a reduction to the January
1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. A reconciliation of the change in our
unrecognized tax benefits (UTB) balance from January 1, 2008 to December 31,
2008, and January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007 is as follows: 

56 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

During
2008 we made deposits totaling $191 to several taxing jurisdictions and, in the
fourth quarter of 2007, we made a deposit of $1,000 related to the AT T Inc.
2000   2002 IRS examination cycle. These deposits are not included in
the reconciliation above but reduce our unrecognized tax benefits balance. Net
of these deposits, our unrecognized tax benefits balance at December 31, 2008,
was $6,801, of which $5,042 was included in  Other noncurrent liabilities  and
$1,759 was included in  Accrued taxes  on our consolidated balance sheets. Net
of the 2007 deposit, our unrecognized tax benefits balance at December 31, 2007,
was $6,579, of which $5,894 was included in  Other noncurrent liabilities  and
$685 was included in  Accrued taxes  on our consolidated balance
sheets. 

A portion
of our unrecognized tax benefits relates to pre-acquisition uncertain tax
positions of ATTC, BellSouth and AT T Mobility. After the effective date of
FAS 141(R), adjustment of these unrecognized tax benefits will be reflected in
income tax expense. 

We record
interest and penalties related to federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax
benefits in income tax expense. Accrued interest and penalties included in
unrecognized tax benefits were $1,802 and $1,678 as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. Interest and penalties included in our consolidated
statements of income were $152 for 2008 and $303 for both 2007 and
2006. 

The
Company and our subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal
jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax returns
are regularly audited and reviewed by the IRS as well as by state and foreign
taxing authorities. 

The IRS
has completed field examinations of AT T s tax returns through 2002, and all
audit periods prior to 1998 are closed for federal purposes. We were unable to
reach agreement with the IRS regarding treatment of Universal Service Fund
receipts on our 1998 and 1999 tax returns and, as a result, we have filed a
refund suit in U.S. District Court. The court proceeding is currently scheduled
for mid-2009. We are engaged with the IRS Appeals Division (Appeals) in settling
our 2000   2002 returns and may reach a resolution of this examination cycle
during the next 12 months. At this time, we are not able to determine the impact
that resolution may have on our unrecognized tax benefits. The IRS has indicated
that in early 2009 they will issue their final Revenue Agent s Report (RAR), as
a result of their completion of examination procedures pertaining to our 2003
through 2005 income tax returns. It is expected that this RAR will assess
additional taxes related primarily to the timing of certain deductions related
to our network assets. We expect to make a deposit in the $800 to $1,200 range
to reduce the accrual of interest while we continue to work with the IRS to
resolve any contested issues. The IRS plans to begin their examination of our
2006-2007 income tax returns in early 2009. 

The IRS
has completed the examination of all acquired entity tax returns through 2003
(ATTC through 2005) and, with the exception of BellSouth, all years through 2001
are closed. In 2009, we expect the IRS to complete their examination of the
BellSouth and Mobility 2004-2005 income tax returns and to begin their
examination of the final pre-acquisition period returns. 

57 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
components of income tax expense are as follows: 

A
reconciliation of income tax expense and the amount computed by applying the
statutory federal income tax rate (35%) to income before income taxes, income
from discontinued operations, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of
accounting changes is as follows: 

Effects
of international operations include items such as foreign tax credits, sales of
foreign investments and the effects of undistributed earnings from international
operations. We do not provide deferred taxes on the undistributed earnings of
subsidiaries operating outside the United States that have been or are intended
to be permanently reinvested. The amount of undistributed earnings for which we
have not recorded deferred taxes is not material. 

NOTE
11. PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS 

Pension Benefits  

      Substantially
all of our U.S. employees are covered by one of our noncontributory pension and
death benefit plans. Many of our management employees participate in pension
plans that have a traditional pension formula (i.e., a stated percentage of
employees  adjusted career income) and a frozen cash balance or defined lump sum
formula. In 2005, the management pension plan for those employees was amended to
freeze benefit accruals previously earned under a cash balance formula. Each
employee s existing cash balance continues to earn interest at a variable annual
rate. After this change, those management employees, at retirement, may elect to
receive the portion of their pension benefit derived under the cash balance or
defined lump sum as a lump sum or an annuity. The remaining pension benefit, if
any, will be paid as an annuity if its value exceeds a stated monthly amount.
Management employees of former ATTC, BellSouth and AT T Mobility participate
in cash balance pension plans. Nonmanagement employees  pension benefits are
generally calculated using one of two formulas: benefits are based on a flat
dollar amount per year according to job classification or are calculated under a
cash balance plan that is based on an initial cash balance amount and a
negotiated annual pension band and interest credits. Most nonmanagement
employees can elect to receive their pension benefits in either a lump sum
payment or an annuity. 

At
November 1, 2008, BellSouth pension plans and U.S. Domestic Participant T
bargained were merged in the AT T Pension Benefit Plan. At December 31,
2007, defined pension plans formerly sponsored by Ameritech Publishing Ventures
and AT T Mobility were merged in the AT T Pension Benefit Plan. At
December 31, 2006, certain defined pension plans formerly sponsored by ATTC and
AT T Mobility were also merged into the AT T Pension Benefit
Plan. 

57 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Postretirement
Benefits  

      We
provide a variety of medical, dental and life insurance benefits to certain
retired employees under various plans and accrue actuarially-determined
postretirement benefit costs as active employees earn these
benefits. 

Obligations
and Funded Status 

      For
defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the  projected benefit
obligation,  the actuarial present value, as of our December 31 measurement
date, of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee
service rendered to that date. The amount of benefit to be paid depends on a
number of future events incorporated into the pension benefit formula, including
estimates of the average life of employees/survivors and average years of
service rendered. It is measured based on assumptions concerning future interest
rates and future employee compensation levels. 

For
postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the  accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation,  the actuarial present value as of a date of
all future benefits attributed under the terms of the postretirement benefit
plan to employee service rendered to that date. 

The
following table presents this reconciliation and shows the change in the
projected benefit obligation for the years ended December 31: 

The
following table presents the change in the value of plan assets for the years
ended December 31 and the plans  funded status at December 31: 

1   

At
      our discretion, certain postretirement benefits are paid from AT T
      cash accounts and do not reduce Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association
      (VEBA) assets. Future benefit payments may be made from VEBA trusts and
      thus reduce those asset balances.  

2    
               
                  Funded
      status is not indicative of our ability to pay ongoing pension benefits
      nor of our obligation to fund retirement trusts. Required pension funding
      is determined in accordance with ERISA
  regulations.  

59 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Amounts
recognized on our consolidated balance sheets at December 31 are listed
below: 

1  Included
in  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities.  

       2  Included
in  Postemployment benefit obligation.  

Amounts
included in our accumulated other comprehensive income that have not yet been
recognized in net periodic benefit cost at December 31 are listed
below: 

The
accumulated benefit obligation for our pension plans represents the actuarial
present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation as of a
certain date and does not include an assumption about future compensation
levels. The accumulated benefit obligation for our pension plans was $48,618 at
December 31, 2008, and $51,357 at December 31, 2007. 

Net
Periodic Benefit Cost and Other Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive
Income 

      Our
combined net pension and postretirement cost recognized in our consolidated
statements of income was $324, $1,078 and $1,635 for the years ended December
31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. 

The
following tables present the components of net periodic benefit obligation cost
and other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other
comprehensive income: 

Net
Periodic Benefit Cost 

60 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Other
Changes in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Other Comprehensive
Income 

The
estimated net loss and prior service cost for pension benefits that will be
amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit
cost over the next fiscal year are $665 and $111, respectively. The estimated
prior service benefit for postretirement benefits that will be amortized from
accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the
next fiscal year is $360. 

Assumptions 

      In
determining the projected benefit obligation and the net pension and
postemployment benefit cost, we used the following significant weighted-average
assumptions: 

1  
  
                 Discount
      rate in effect for determining net cost (benefit) of BellSouth and
      AT T Mobility pension and postretirement plans for the two-day period
      ended December 31, 2006, was
6.00%.   

Approximately
10% of pension and postretirement costs are capitalized as part of construction
labor, providing a small reduction in the net expense recorded. While we will
continue our cost-control efforts, certain factors, such as investment returns,
depend largely on trends in the U.S. securities markets and the general U.S.
economy. In particular, uncertainty in the securities markets and U.S. economy
could result in investment returns less than those assumed. GAAP requires that
actual gains and losses on pension and postretirement plan assets be recognized
in the MRVA equally over a period of not more than five years. We use a
methodology, allowed under GAAP, under which we hold the MRVA to within 20% of
the actual fair value of plan assets, which can have the effect of accelerating
the recognition of excess actual gains and losses into the MRVA to less than
five years. Due to investment losses on plan assets experienced in the last
year, we expect this methodology to contribute approximately $1,577 to our
combined net pension and postretirement cost in 2009 as compared with not using
this methodology. This methodology did not have a significant effect on our
2008, 2007 and 2006 combined net pension and postretirement benefits. Should the
securities markets decline or medical and prescription drug costs increase at a
rate greater than assumed, we would expect increasing annual combined net
pension and postretirement costs for the next several years. Additionally,
should actual experience differ from actuarial assumptions, combined net pension
and postretirement cost would be affected in future years. 

Discount Rate   Our
assumed discount rate of 7.00% at December 31, 2008, reflects the hypothetical
rate at which the projected benefit obligations could be effectively settled or
paid out to participants on that date. We determined our discount rate based on
a range of factors, including a yield curve comprised of the rates of return on
high-quality, fixed-income corporate bonds available at the measurement date and
the related expected duration for the obligations. For the year ended December
31, 2008, we increased our discount rate by 0.50%, resulting in a decrease in
our pension plan benefit obligation of $2,176 and a decrease in our
postretirement benefit obligation of $2,154. For the year ended December 31,
2007, we increased our discount rate by 0.50%, resulting in a decrease in our
pension plan benefit obligation of $2,353 and a decrease in our postretirement
benefit obligation of $2,492. Should actual experience differ from actuarial
assumptions, the projected pension benefit obligation and net pension cost and
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and postretirement benefit cost
would be affected in future years. 

61

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Expected Long-Term Rate of
Return   Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of
8.50% for 2009 and 2008 reflects the average rate of earnings expected on the
funds invested, or to be invested, to provide for the benefits included in the
projected benefit obligations. In setting the long-term assumed rate of return,
management considers capital markets future expectations and the asset mix of
the plans  investments. Actual long-term return can, in relatively stable
markets, also serve as a factor in determining future expectations. However, the
dramatic adverse market conditions in 2008 have skewed traditional measure of
long-term return, such as the 10-year return, which was 4.21% through 2008,
compared with 9.18% through 2007. The severity of the 2008 losses will make the
10-year return less of a relevant factor in future expectations. Based on the
future expectations for the target asset mix, this assumption will remain
unchanged for 2009. We consider many factors that include, but are not limited
to, historical returns on plan assets, current market information on long-term
returns (e.g., long-term bond rates) and current and target asset allocations
between asset categories. The target asset allocation is determined based on
consultations with external investment advisors. This assumption, which is based
on our long-term expectations of market returns in future years, is one of the
most significant of the weighted-average assumptions used to determine our
actuarial estimates of pension and postretirement benefit expense. If all other
factors were to remain unchanged, we expect that a 1% decrease in the expected
long-term rate of return would cause 2009 combined pension and postretirement
cost to increase $650 over 2008. 

Composite Rate of Compensation
Increase   Our expected composite rate of compensation increase
of 4% reflects the long-term average rate of salary increases. 

Health Care Cost
Trend   Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed
based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely
long-term trends. Additionally, to recognize the disproportionate growth in
prescription drug costs, we have developed separate trend assumptions for
medical and prescription drugs. In addition to the health care cost trend, we
assume an annual 3% growth in administrative expenses and an annual 3% growth in
dental claims. Due to benefit design changes in recent years (e.g., increased
co-pays and deductibles for prescription drugs and certain medical services), we
continue to experience a better than expected claims experience. The following
table provides our assumed average health care cost trend based on the
demographics of plan participants. 

A one
percentage-point change in the assumed combined medical and dental cost trend
rate would have the following effects: 

One
      Percentage- 

                                    Point
      Increase 

One
      Percentage- 

                                    Point
      Decrease 

Increase
      (decrease) in total of service and interest cost
components 

$  
                                  390  

$  
                                  (315  
                                  )  

Increase
      (decrease) in accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation 

3,629  

(3,034  
                                  )  

For the
majority of our labor contracts that contain an annual dollar value cap for the
purpose of determining contributions required from nonmanagement retirees who
retire during the term of the labor contract, we have waived the cap during the
relevant contract periods and thus not collected contributions from those
retirees, and we have similarly waived the cap for nonmanagement retirees who
retired prior to inception of the labor contract. Therefore, in accordance with
the substantive plan provisions required in accounting for postretirement
benefits under GAAP, we do not account for the cap in the value of our
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (i.e., for GAAP purposes, we
assumed the cap would be waived for all future contract periods). 

62 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Plan
Assets 

      Plan
assets consist primarily of private and public equity, government and corporate
bonds, and real estate. The asset allocations of the pension plans are
maintained to meet ERISA requirements. Any plan contributions, as determined by
ERISA regulations, are made to a pension trust for the benefit of plan
participants. We maintain VEBA trusts to partially fund postretirement benefits;
however, there are no ERISA or regulatory requirements that these postretirement
benefit plans be funded annually. 

The
principal investment objectives are to ensure the availability of funds to pay
pension and postretirement benefits as they become due under a broad range of
future economic scenarios, to maximize long-term investment return with an
acceptable level of risk based on our pension and postretirement obligations,
and to be broadly diversified across and within the capital markets to insulate
asset values against adverse experience in any one market. Each asset class has
a broadly diversified style. Substantial biases toward any particular investing
style or type of security are sought to be avoided by managing the aggregation
of all accounts with portfolio benchmarks. Asset and benefit obligation
forecasting studies are conducted periodically, generally every two to three
years, or when significant changes have occurred in market conditions, benefits,
participant demographics or funded status. Decisions regarding investment policy
are made with an understanding of the effect of asset allocation on funded
status, future contributions and projected expenses. The current asset
allocation policy for the pension plan is based on a study completed during
2007. The current asset allocation policy for the VEBA assets is based on a
study completed in 2008. 

The
plans  weighted-average asset target and actual allocations as a percentage of
plan assets, including the notional exposure of future contracts by asset
categories at December 31, are as follows: 

At
December 31, 2008, AT T securities represented less than one half of a
percent of assets held by our pension plans and VEBA trusts. 

Estimated
Future Benefit Payments 

      Expected
benefit payments are estimated using the same assumptions used in determining
our benefit obligation at December 31, 2008. Because benefit payments will
depend on future employment and compensation levels, average years employed and
average life spans, among other factors, changes in any of these factors could
significantly affect these expected amounts. The following table provides
expected benefit payments under our pension and postretirement
plans: 

Supplemental Retirement
Plans  

      We also
provide senior- and middle-management employees with nonqualified, unfunded
supplemental retirement and savings plans. While these plans are unfunded, we
have assets in a designated nonbankruptcy remote trust that are independently
managed and used to provide for these benefits. At the end of 2008, we concluded
the severity of decline in the latter half of 2008 had led to an
other-than-temporary decline in the value of these assets, writing them down
$332, recording the amount in other income and expense. Sales within the trust
also generated $180 in net realized losses in 2008. These plans include
supplemental pension benefits as well as compensation deferral plans, some of
which include a corresponding match by us based on a percentage of the
compensation deferral. 

63 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

We use
the same significant assumptions for the discount rate and composite rate of
compensation increase used in determining the projected benefit obligation and
the net pension and postemployment benefit cost. The following tables provide
the plans  benefit obligations and fair value of assets at December 31 and the
components of the supplemental retirement pension benefit cost. The net amounts
recorded as  Other noncurrent liabilities  on our consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $2,114 and $2,301,
respectively. 

The
following table provides information for our supplemental retirement plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets: 

The
following tables present the components of net periodic benefit cost and other
changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive
income: 

The
estimated net loss and prior service cost for our supplemental retirement plan
benefits that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into
net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are $11 and $5,
respectively. 

Deferred
compensation expense was $54 in 2008, $106 in 2007 and $39 in 2006. Our deferred
compensation liability, included in  Other noncurrent liabilities,  was $1,054
at December 31, 2008, and $1,116 at December 31, 2007. 

Non-U.S.
Plans 

      As part
of our ATTC acquisition, we acquired certain non-U.S. operations that have
varying types of pension programs providing benefits for substantially all of
their employees and, to a limited group, postemployment benefits. The following
table provides the plans  benefit obligations and fair value of assets and a
statement of the funded status at December 31. 

64 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The net
amounts recorded as  Postemployment benefit obligation  on our consolidated
balance sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $(7) and $(48),
respectively. 

The
following table provides information for certain non-U.S. defined-benefit
pension plans with plan assets in excess of accumulated benefit
obligations: 

In
determining the projected benefit obligation for certain non-U.S.
defined-benefit pension plans, we used the following significant
weighted-average assumptions: 

The
following tables present the components of net periodic benefit cost and other
changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive
income: 

The
estimated net gain that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive
income into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year is
$13. 

Contributory
Savings Plans 

      We
maintain contributory savings plans that cover substantially all employees.
Under the savings plans, we match in cash or company stock a stated percentage
of eligible employee contributions, subject to a specified ceiling. There are no
debt-financed shares held by the Employee Stock Ownership Plans, allocated or
unallocated. 

65 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

              Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

Our match
of employee contributions to the savings plans is fulfilled with purchases of
our stock on the open market or company cash. Benefit cost is based on the cost
of shares or units allocated to participating employees  accounts and was $664,
$633 and $412 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006. 

NOTE
12. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT 

We
account for share-based compensation plans using Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004)  Share-Based Payment  (FAS 123(R)).
Our accounting under FAS 123(R) may affect our ability to fully realize the
value shown on our balance sheet of deferred tax assets associated with
compensation expense. Full realization of these deferred tax assets requires
stock options to be exercised at a price equaling or exceeding the sum of the
strike price plus the fair value of the option at the grant date. The provisions
of FAS 123(R) do not allow a valuation allowance to be recorded unless the
company s future taxable income is expected to be insufficient to recover the
asset. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the current stock price of
our common shares will rise to levels sufficient to realize the entire tax
benefit currently reflected in our balance sheet. However, to the extent that
additional tax benefits are generated in excess of the deferred taxes associated
with compensation expense previously recognized, the potential future impact on
income would be reduced. 

At
December 31, 2008, we had various share-based compensation plans, which are
described as follows. The compensation cost recognized for those plans for the
years ended December 31 was $166 in 2008, $720 in 2007 and $301 in 2006 and is
included in  Selling, general and administrative  in our consolidated statements
of income. The total income tax benefit recognized in the consolidated
statements of income for share-based payment arrangements for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $63, $275 and $116. 

Under our
various plans, senior and other management and nonmanagement employees and
nonemployee directors have received stock options, performance stock units and
other nonvested stock units. Stock options issued through December 31, 2008
carry exercise prices equal to the market price of our stock at the date of
grant. Beginning in 1994 and ending in 1999, certain employees of AT T
Teleholdings, Inc. (formerly known as Ameritech) were awarded grants of
nonqualified stock options with dividend equivalents. Prior to 2006, depending
on the grant, stock options vesting could occur up to five years from the date
of grant, with most options vesting ratably over three years. Stock options
granted as part of a deferred compensation plan do not have a vesting period;
since 2006, these are the only options issued by AT T. Performance stock
units, which are nonvested stock units, are granted to key employees based upon
the stock price at the date of grant and are awarded in the form of common stock
and cash at the end of a two- to three-year period, subject to the achievement
of certain performance goals. Other nonvested stock units are valued at the
market price of our stock at the date of grant and vest typically over a two- to
five-year period. As of December 31, 2008, we were authorized to issue up to 125
million shares of stock (in addition to shares that may be issued upon exercise
of outstanding options or upon vesting of performance stock units or other
nonvested stock units) to officers, employees and directors pursuant to these
various plans. 

The
compensation cost that has been charged against income for our share-based
compensation plans is as follows: 

66 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

The
estimated fair value of the options when granted is amortized to expense over
the options  vesting or required service period. The fair value for these
options was estimated at the date of grant based on the expected life of the
option and historical exercise experience, using a Black-Scholes option pricing
model with the following weighted-average assumptions: 

A summary
of option activity as of December 31, 2008, and changes during the period then
ended, is presented below (shares in millions): 

1  

Aggregate
      intrinsic value includes only those options with intrinsic value (options
      where the exercise price is below the market
  price).   

The
weighted-average fair value of each option granted during the year ended
December 31 was $5.04 in 2008, $7.71 in 2007 and $4.78 in 2006. The total
intrinsic value of options exercised during the year was $78 in 2008, $667 in
2007 and $134 in 2006. 

It is our
policy to satisfy share option exercises using our treasury shares. The actual
tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises from these
arrangements for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 totaled $10,
$77 and $28. 

A summary
of the status of our nonvested stock units, which includes performance stock
units as of December 31, 2008, and changes during the year then ended is
presented as follows (shares in millions): 

As of
December 31, 2008, there was $335 of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to nonvested share-based payment arrangements granted. That cost is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.62 years. The
total fair value of shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006 was $554, $345 and $246. 

67 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
13. STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

From time
to time, we repurchase shares of common stock for distribution through our
employee benefit plans or in connection with certain acquisitions. In December
2007, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 400 million
shares of our common stock. This authorization replaced previous authorizations
and will expire on December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2008, we had
repurchased approximately 164 million shares under this program. 

NOTE
14. ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

No
customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 or
2006. 

A
majority of our employees are represented by labor unions as of year-end 2008.
Labor contracts with these employees will expire during 2009. 

68 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

            Dollars
in millions except per share amounts 

NOTE
15. TRANSACTIONS WITH AT T MOBILITY 

Prior to
our December 29, 2006 acquisition of BellSouth (see Note 2), we and BellSouth,
the two owners of AT T Mobility, each made a subordinated loan to AT T
Mobility (shareholder loans) and entered into a revolving credit agreement with
AT T Mobility to provide short-term financing for operations. Following the
BellSouth acquisition, both our shareholder loan and revolving credit agreement
with AT T Mobility were consolidated and do not appear on our consolidated
balance sheets. The shareholder loan carries an annual 6.0% interest rate and we
earned interest income on this loan of $246 during 2006. 

Prior to
our BellSouth acquisition, we generated revenues of $1,466 in 2006 for services
sold to AT T Mobility. These revenues were primarily from access and
long-distance services sold to AT T Mobility on a wholesale basis and
commissions revenue related to customers added through AT T sales
sources. 

NOTE
16. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 

In
addition to issues specifically discussed elsewhere, we are party to numerous
lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and other matters arising in the ordinary
course of business. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies,  in evaluating these matters on
an ongoing basis, we take into account amounts already accrued on the balance
sheet. In our opinion, although the outcomes of these proceedings are uncertain,
they should not have a material adverse effect on our financial position,
results of operations or cash flows. 

We have
contractual obligations to purchase certain goods or services from various other
parties. Our purchase obligations are expected to be approximately $3,112 in
2009, $4,398 in total for 2010 and 2011, $1,885 in total for 2012 and 2013 and
$516 in total for years thereafter. 

NOTE
17. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

The
following table represents our quarterly financial results: 

1  
  
                 Quarterly
      earnings per share impacts may not add to full-year earnings per share
      impacts due to the difference in weighted-average shares for the quarters
      versus the weighted-average shares for the
  year.   

69 

Report
of Management 

The
consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. The integrity and objectivity of the
data in these financial statements, including estimates and judgments relating
to matters not concluded by year-end, are the responsibility of management, as
is all other information included in the Annual Report, unless otherwise
indicated. 

The
financial statements of AT T Inc. (AT T) have been audited by
Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm. Management has made available to Ernst   Young LLP all
of AT T s financial records and related data, as well as the minutes of
stockholders  and directors  meetings. Furthermore, management believes that all
representations made to Ernst   Young LLP during its audit
were valid and appropriate. 

Management
maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by AT T is recorded, processed,
summarized, accumulated and communicated to its management, including its
principal executive and principal financial officers, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure, and reported within the time periods specified by
the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms. 

Management
also seeks to ensure the objectivity and integrity of its financial data by the
careful selection of its managers, by organizational arrangements that provide
an appropriate division of responsibility and by communication programs aimed at
ensuring that its policies, standards and managerial authorities are understood
throughout the organization. 

The Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors meets periodically with management, the
internal auditors and the independent auditors to review the manner in which
they are performing their respective responsibilities and to discuss auditing,
internal accounting controls and financial reporting matters. Both the internal
auditors and the independent auditors periodically meet alone with the Audit
Committee and have access to the Audit Committee at any time. 

Assessment
of Internal Control 

      The
management of AT T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or
15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AT T s internal control
system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company s management
and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of
published financial statements. 

AT T
management assessed the effectiveness of the company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, it used
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework . Based on its assessment, AT T management believes that, as
of December 31, 2008, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is
effective based on those criteria. 

Ernst
  Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited
the financial statements included in this Annual Report, has issued an
attestation report on the company s internal control over financial reporting.
The attestation report is included on Page 78. 

/s/
      Randall Stephenson.  
                 
              /s/
      Richard G. Lindner.  

Randall
      Stephenson   
                 
              Richard G.
      Lindner   

Chairman of the
      Board,   
                 
              Senior Executive
      Vice President and   

Chief Executive
      Officer and President   
                 
              Chief Financial
      Officer   

70 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board
of Directors and Stockholders 

      AT T
Inc. 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AT T Inc. (the
Company) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial statements are
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In our
opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. 

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established
in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 12,
2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 

/s/ Ernst   Young
LLP  

      San
Antonio, Texas 

      February
12, 2009 

71 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting 

The Board
of Directors and Stockholders 

      AT T
Inc. 

We have
audited AT T Inc. s (the Company) internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting,
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit. 

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion. 

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on   the COSO
criteria. 

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company
as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements
of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2008, of the Company and our report dated
February 12, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 

/s/ Ernst   Young
LLP  

      San
Antonio, Texas 

      February
12, 2009 

72 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 33
 ex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF AT&T INC

ex21.htm 

Exhibit
21 

      PRINCIPAL
SUBSIDIARIES OF 

AT T
INC., AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2008 

2008
AT T INC. REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS 

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ("SEC") 

FORM
10-K filed February 25, 2009 

Legal Name  

State of
      Incorporation/Formation  

Conducts Business Under  

Illinois
      Bell Telephone 

                  Company 

Illinois 

AT T
      Illinois; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Indiana
      Bell Telephone 

                  Company,
      Incorporated 

Indiana 

AT T
      Indiana; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Michigan
      Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

Michigan 

AT T
      Michigan; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Nevada
      Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

Nevada 

AT T
      Nevada; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Pacific
      Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

California 

AT T
      California; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale; 

                  AT T
      DataComm 

AT T
      International, Inc. 

Delaware 

AT T
      International 

SBC
      Internet Services, Inc. 

California 

AT T
      Internet Services; 

                  AT T
      Entertainment Services 

SBC
      Long Distance, LLC 

Delaware 

AT T
      Long Distance 

AT T
      Teleholdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

AT T
      Midwest; 

                  AT T
      West; 

                  AT T
      East 

Southwestern
      Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

Missouri 

AT T
      Arkansas; AT T Kansas; 

                  AT T
      Missouri; AT T Oklahoma; 

                  AT T
      Texas; AT T Southwest; 

                  AT T
      DataComm; AT T Wholesale 

Southwestern
      Bell 

                  Yellow
      Pages, Inc. 

Missouri 

AT T
      Advertising  Solutions 

Sterling
      Commerce, Inc. 

Delaware 

same 

The
      Ohio Bell 

                  Telephone
      Company 

Ohio 

AT T
      Ohio; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

The
      Southern New 

                  England
      Telephone Company 

Connecticut 

AT T
      Connecticut; 

                  AT T
      Woodbury 

Wisconsin
      Bell, Inc. 

Wisconsin 

AT T
      Wisconsin; 

                  AT T
      Wholesale 

Exhibit
21 

Legal
      Name  

State of
      Incorporation/Formation  

Conducts Business Under  

AT T
      Corp. 

New
      York 

AT T
      Corp.; AT  

                              Conference
      Operator-AT  

                              Connect
      N'Save; ACC Business; 

                              AT T
      Worldnet Services; Worldnet 

                              Services;
      AT T Wholesale; Lucky 

                              Dog
      Phone Co.; SmarTalk; GTI; 

                              prepaidserviceguide.com; 

                              ConQuest;
      CQTalk!; 

                              UnispeakSMService; 

                              AT T
      Wholesale; AT T Business Solutions; AT T Advanced
      Solutions 

AT T
      Communications of California, Inc. 

California 

same 

AT T
      Communications of the Mountain States, Inc. 

Colorado 

Conquest;
      SmarTalk;CQTalk!; 

                              www.prepaidserviceguide.com 

AT T
      Communications of NJ, LP 

Delaware 

same 

AT T
      Communications of New York, Inc. 

New
      York 

same 

AT T
      Communications of Illinois, 

                              Inc.  

Illinois 

SmarTalk;
      ConQuest; Lucky Dog Phone Co.; 

                                 ACC
      Business 

AT T
      Communications of the Southern States, LLC 

Delaware 

ACC
      Business; SmarTalk; 

                              prepaidserviceguide.com; 

                              AT 
      Conquest; CQTalk!; 

                              Lucky
      Dog Phone Co. 

Teleport
      Communications New York 

New
      York 

same 

BellSouth
      Corporation 

Georgia 

AT T
      South 

BellSouth
      Telecommunications, Inc. 

Georgia 

AT T
      Southeast 

                              AT T
      Alabama 

                              AT T
      Florida 

                              AT T
      Georgia 

                              AT T
      Kentucky 

                              AT T
      Louisiana 

                              AT T
      Mississippi 

                              AT T
      North Carolina 

                              AT T
      South Carolina 

                              AT T
      Tennessee 

Exhibit 21  

Legal Name  

State of
      Incorporation/Formation  

Conducts Business Under  

AT T
      Mobility LLC 

Delaware 

AT T
      Mobility 

AT T
      Mobility II, LLC 

Delaware 

AT T
      Mobility 

New
      Cingular Wireless Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

AT T
      Mobility 

Dobson
      Communications LLC 

Oklahoma 

AT T
      Mobility 

Dobson
      Cellular Systems, LLC 

Oklahoma 

AT T
      Mobility 

American
      Cellular LLC 

Delaware 

AT T
      Mobility 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 34
 ex23.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

ex23.htm 

Consent
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of
AT T Inc. (AT T) of our reports dated February 12, 2009, with respect to
the consolidated financial statements of AT T and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting of AT T, included in the 2008
Annual Report to Stockholders of AT T. 

Our
audits also included the financial statement schedules of AT T listed in
Item 15(a). These schedules are the responsibility of AT T's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as
to which the date is February 23, 2009, the financial statement schedules
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein. 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration
Statements: 

(9) 

Registration
      Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-139749) pertaining to the BellSouth Retirement
      Savings Plan and other certain BellSouth
plans, 

(10) 

Registration
      Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-141864) pertaining to the AT T Inc.
      Savings Plan, AT T Inc. Savings and Security Plan, AT T Corp. Long
      Term Savings Plan for Management Employees, AT T Corp. Long Term
      Savings and Security Plan, AT T Corp. Retirement Savings and Profit
      Sharing Plan, AT T of Puerto Rico, Inc. Long Term Savings Plan for
      Management Employees, and AT T of Puerto Rico, Inc. Long Term Savings
      and Security Plan; and 

of our
reports dated February 12, 2009, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements of AT T and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting of AT T, incorporated herein by reference, and our report included
in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedules of
AT T included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of AT T for the year
ended December 31, 2008. 

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP 

San
Antonio, Texas 

      February
23, 2009 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 35
 ex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

ex24.htm 

Exhibit 24

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL
MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer
and a director of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug, Richard G. Lindner, John J.
Stephens,  or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and
State of Texas, his attorneys for him and in his name, place and stead, and in
each of his offices and capacities in the Corporation, to execute and file such
annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments
thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and
necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing
thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall
lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ Randall L.
Stephenson  

      Randall
L. Stephenson 

      Chairman
of the Board, 

      Chief
Executive Officer and 

      President 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ Gilbert F.
Amelio  

      Gilbert
F. Amelio 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ William F. Aldinger
III  

      William
F. Aldinger III 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ Reuben V.
Anderson  

      Reuben V.
Anderson 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ James H.
Blanchard  

      James H.
Blanchard 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ August A. Busch
III  

      August A.
Busch III 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ Jaime Chico
Pardo  

      Jaime
Chico Pardo 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ James P.
Kelly  

      James P.
Kelly 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER
OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ Jon C.
Madonna  

      Jon C.
Madonna 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ John B.
McCoy  

      John B.
McCoy 

      Lead
Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ Lynn M.
Martin  

      Lynn M.
Martin 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ Mary S.
Metz  

      Mary S.
Metz 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER
OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ Joyce M.
Roch   

      Joyce M.
Roch  

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th  day of January
2009. 

/s/ Laura D'Andrea
Tyson  

      Laura
D'Andrea Tyson 

      Director 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS: 

THAT, WHEREAS, AT T INC., a
Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K;
and 

WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director
of the Corporation; 

NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby
constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Wayne Watts, Jon P. Klug,
Richard G. Lindner, John J. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of
Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the
undersigned s name, place and stead, and in the undersigned s office and
capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and
thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby
giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in
and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
executed this Power of Attorney the 30th day of January 2009. 

/s/ Patricia P.
Upton  

      Patricia
P. Upton 

      Director 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 36
 ex31_1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

ex31_1.htm 

Exhibit
31.1 

I,
Randall Stephenson, certify that: 

1.   

I
      have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of AT T
  Inc.; 

2.   

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3.   

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4.   

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
  have: 

a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5.   

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:  February
25, 2009 

/s/ Randall
Stephenson   

      Randall
Stephenson 

      Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer 

      and
President 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 37
 ex31_2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

ex31_2.htm 

Exhibit 31.2  

CERTIFICATION  

I,
Richard G. Lindner, certify that: 

1.   

I
      have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of AT T
  Inc.; 

2.   

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3.   

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4.   

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
  have: 

a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5.   

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:  February
25, 2009 

/s/ Richard G.
Lindner   

      Richard
G. Lindner 

      Senior
Executive Vice President 

           and
Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 38
 ex32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION

ex32.htm 

Exhibit
32

Certification of Periodic
Financial Reports  

Pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, each of the undersigned officers of AT T Inc.
(the  Company ) hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company. 

February
25,
2009                                                                                         February 25,
2009 

By:    
       /s/ Randall
      Stephenson    
                 By:  
       /s/ Richard G.
      Lindner    

Randall
      Stephenson 

Richard G.
      Lindner 

Chairman of
      the Board, Chief Executive Officer 

Senior
      Executive Vice President 

and President 

and Chief Financial Officer 

The
foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure
document.  This certification shall not be deemed  filed  for purposes
of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ) or
otherwise subject to liability under that section.  This certification
shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the
Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act except to the extent this Exhibit 32
is expressly and specifically incorporated by reference in any such
filing. 

A signed
original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required
by Section 906, has been provided to AT T Inc. and will be retained by
AT T Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

<EX-13>
 40
 ex13.pdf
 COURTESEY COPY OF AT&T 2008 ANNUAL REPORT

</EX-13>

