<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160218_10-K_edgar_data_732717_0000732717-16-000147_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>20521443</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>495971</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>967282</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6999542</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>8744640</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2882587</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>124</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000732717-16-000147.hdr.sgml : 20160218
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160218163312
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000732717-16-000147
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		136
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160218
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160218

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AT&T INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000732717
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (NO RADIO TELEPHONE) [4813]
		IRS NUMBER:				431301883
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08610
		FILM NUMBER:		161438449

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		208 S. AKARD ST
		STREET 2:		ATTN : JAMES LACY
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75202
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2108214105

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		208 S. AKARD ST
		STREET 2:		ATTN : JAMES LACY
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75202

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950501

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000732717-16-000147.txt : 20160218

10-K
 1
 ye15_10k.htm
 AT&T INC. 2015 FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015

OR

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from                   to

Commission File Number:  1-8610

AT T INC.

Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware

I.R.S. Employer Identification Number 43-1301883

208 S. Akard St., Dallas, Texas, 75202

Telephone Number 210-821-4105

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: (See attached Schedule A)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None.

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes [X]   No [   ]

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes [   ]   No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]   No [   ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes [X] No [  ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definition of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer [X]

Accelerated filer [   ]

Non-accelerated filer [   ]

Smaller reporting company [   ]

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes [   ]   No [X]

Based on the closing price of $35.52 per share on June 30, 2015, the aggregate market value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates was $184 billion.

At February 10, 2016, common shares outstanding were 6,151,208,898.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) 
 Portions of AT T Inc.'s Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (Parts I and II). 

(2) 
 Portions of AT T Inc.'s Notice of 2016 Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated on or about March 11, 2016 to be filed within the period permitted under General Instruction G(3) (Parts III and IV). 

SCHEDULE A

Securities Registered Pursuant To Section 12(b) Of The Act:

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Item

Page

PART I

1.

Business

1

1A.

Risk Factors

12

2.

Properties

14

3.

Legal Proceedings

14

4.

Mine Safety Disclosures

14

Executive Officers of the Registrant

15

PART II

5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters

and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

16

6.

Selected Financial Data

17

7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition

and Results of Operations

17

7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

17

8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

17

9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting

and Financial Disclosure

17

9A.

Controls and Procedures

17

9B.

Other Information

18

PART III

10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

18

11.

Executive Compensation

18

12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and

Management and Related Stockholder Matters

18

13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

19

14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

19

PART IV

15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

19

AT T Inc.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

AT T Inc. ("AT T," "we" or the "Company") is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive offices at 208 S. Akard St., Dallas, Texas, 75202 (telephone number 210-821-4105). We maintain an Internet website at www.att.com. (This website address is for information only and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any website information into this document.) We make available, free of charge, on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on that website, and in print, if any stockholder or other person so requests, our "Code of Ethics" applicable to all employees and Directors, our "Corporate Governance Guidelines," and the charters for all committees of our Board of Directors, including Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Governance and Nominating. Any changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, executive officers or Directors will be posted on that website.

History

AT T, formerly known as SBC Communications Inc. (SBC), was formed as one of several regional holding companies created to hold AT T Corp.'s (ATTC) local telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, we were spun-off from ATTC pursuant to an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an independent publicly-traded telecommunications services provider. At formation, we primarily operated in five southwestern states. Our subsidiaries merged with Pacific Telesis Group in 1997, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation in 1998 and Ameritech Corporation in 1999, thereby expanding our wireline operations as the incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC) into a total of 13 states. In November 2005, one of our subsidiaries merged with ATTC, creating one of the world's leading telecommunications providers. In connection with the merger, we changed the name of our company from "SBC Communications Inc." to "AT T Inc." In December 2006, one of our subsidiaries merged with BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth) making us the ILEC in an additional nine states. With the BellSouth acquisition, we also acquired BellSouth's 40 percent economic interest in AT T Mobility LLC (AT T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC, resulting in 100 percent ownership of AT T Mobility. In 2014, we completed the acquisition of wireless provider Leap Wireless International, Inc. (Leap) and sold our ILEC operations in Connecticut, which we had previously acquired in 1998. In 2015, we completed acquisitions of wireless properties in Mexico and DIRECTV, a leading provider of digital television entertainment services in both the United States and Latin America. Our services and products are marketed under the AT T, Cricket, DIRECTV, SKY, Iusacell, Unefon and Nextel Mexico brand names.

Scope

We are a leading provider of communications and digital entertainment services in the United States and the world. We offer our services and products to consumers in the U.S., Mexico and Latin America and to businesses and other providers of telecommunications services worldwide. We also own and operate three regional sports networks, and retain non-controlling interests in another regional sports network and a network dedicated to game-related programming as well as Internet interactive game playing.

The services and products that we offer vary by market, and include: wireless communications, data/broadband and Internet services, digital video services, local and long-distance telephone services, telecommunications equipment, managed networking, and wholesale services. In conjunction with our July 24, 2015 acquisition of DIRECTV, we re-organized our operating subsidiaries as follows, corresponding to our operating segments for financial reporting purposes:

Business Solutions business units provide services to business, governmental and wholesale customers and individual subscribers who purchase wireless services through employer-sponsored plans. We provide advanced IP-based services including Virtual Private Networks (VPN), Ethernet-related products and broadband, collectively referred to as strategic business services, as well as traditional data and voice products. We utilize our wireless and wired network and are marketed to provide a complete communications solution to our business customers.

Entertainment Group business units provide video, internet and voice communication services to residential customers located in the U.S. or in U.S. territories. We utilize our copper and IP-based (referred to as "wired" or "wireline") network and/or our satellite technology.

Consumer Mobility business units provide nationwide wireless service to consumers, and wireless wholesale and resale subscribers located in the U.S. or in U.S. territories. We utilize our U.S. wireless network to provide voice and data services, including high speed internet, video entertainment and home monitoring services.

1

AT T Inc.

International business units provide entertainment services in Latin America and wireless services in Mexico. Video entertainment services are provided to primarily residential customers using satellite technology. We utilize our regional and national networks in Mexico to provide consumer and business customers with wireless data and voice communication services.

Our Corporate and Other information includes unallocated corporate expenses, operations that are no longer integral to our operations or which we no longer actively market, our portion of results from our equity investments and impacts from corporate-wide decisions for which the individual operating segments are not being evaluated.

With continuing advances in technology and in response to changing demands from our customers, in recent years we have focused on providing broadband, video and voice services. In 2015, we purchased DIRECTV to  expand our involvement in the digital entertainment space. The nationwide reach of DIRECTV and superior content-owner relationships significantly improves the economics and expands the geographic reach of our pre-existing AT T U-verse      video service. W e also purchased wireless operations in Mexico, moving quickly to build a world-class mobile business in a country with a strong economic outlook, a growing middle class and close trade, cultural and geographic ties to the U.S.  These acquisitions and our continued investment in a premier network experience make our customers' lives more convenient and productive and foster competition and further innovation in the communications and entertainment industry. In 2016, we plan to focus on the areas discussed below.

Wireless

AT T Mobility began operations in October 2000 as a joint venture between us and BellSouth and, in 2004, acquired AT T Wireless Services, Inc. Upon our acquisition of BellSouth in 2006, AT T Mobility became a wholly-owned subsidiary.

In the United States, we now cover all major metropolitan areas and more than 300 million people with our LTE technology. We also provide 4G coverage using another technology (HSPA+), and when combined with our upgraded backhaul network, we are able to enhance our network capabilities and provide superior mobile broadband speeds for data and video services. Our wireless network also relies on other GSM digital transmission technologies for 3G and 2G data communications. As of December 31, 2015, we served more than 128 million subscribers.

As the wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative video and data services and a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations. We continue to face significant spectrum and capacity constraints on our wireless network in certain markets. We expect such constraints to increase and expand to additional markets in the coming years. While we are continuing to invest significant capital in expanding our network capacity, our capacity constraints could affect the quality of existing voice and data services and our ability to launch new, advanced wireless broadband services, unless we are able to obtain more spectrum. Any long-term spectrum solution will require that the FCC make additional spectrum available to the wireless industry to meet the expanding needs of our subscribers. We will continue to attempt to address spectrum and capacity constraints on a market-by-market basis.  To that end, we submitted winning bids for 251 Advanced Wireless Service (AWS) spectrum licenses for a near-nationwide contiguous block of high-quality AWS spectrum in the AWS-3 Auction (FCC Auction 97).  The FCC announced that the 600 MHz Auction (Auction 1000) is scheduled to begin on March 29, 2016.

Also as part of our efforts to improve our network performance and help address the need for additional spectrum capacity, we are redeploying spectrum currently used for basic 2G services to support more advanced mobile Internet services on our 3G and 4G networks. We are managing this process consistent with previous network upgrades and are transitioning customers on a market-by-market basis from 2G networks to our more advanced 3G and 4G networks. We expect to fully discontinue service on our 2G networks by approximately January 1, 2017. As of December 31, 2015, about 1 percent of AT T's postpaid subscribers used handsets only capable of using 2G services. We do not expect this transition to have a material impact on our operating results.

Business Solutions

We expect to continue to strengthen the reach and sophistication of our network facilities and our ability to offer a variety of communications services, both fixed and mobile, to businesses, governmental and wholesale customers worldwide.

Internet Protocol Technology

IP is generally used to describe the transmission of data, which can include voice (called voice over IP or VoIP), using a software-based technology rather than a traditional wire and physical switch-based telephone network. A company using this technology can provide voice and data services at a lower cost because this technology uses bandwidth more efficiently than a traditional network. Using this technology also presents growth opportunities especially in providing data and video services to both fixed locations and mobile devices. To take advantage of both these growth and cost-savings opportunities, we have encouraged the migration of wireline customers in our current 21-state ILEC service area to services using IP, and expect to continue this transition through at least 2020.

2 

AT T Inc.

Integration of Data/Broadband and Entertainment Services

As the communications industry continues to move toward Internet-based technologies that are capable of blending traditional wireline and wireless services, we plan to offer services that take advantage of these new and more sophisticated technologies. In particular, we intend to continue to focus on expanding our high-speed Internet and video offerings and on developing IP-based services that allow customers to unite their home or business fixed services with their mobile service. During 2016, we will continue to develop and provide unique integrated video, mobile   and broadband solutions.

International

We believe that the wireless model in the U.S., with exploding demand for mobile Internet service and the associated economic benefits, will be repeated around the world as companies invest in high-speed mobile networks. Due in part to recent changes in the legal and regulatory framework in Mexico, during 2015 we invested in Mexican wireless operations to establish a unique, seamless, cross-border North American wireless network covering 355 million people and businesses in the U.S. and Mexico. During 2016, we will continue to build a world-class mobile business and network in Mexico.

3 

AT T Inc.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS

OPERATING SEGMENTS

Our segments are strategic business units that offer products and services to different customer segments over various technology platforms and/or in different geographies that are managed accordingly. We analyze our operating segments based on segment contribution, which consists of operating income, excluding acquisition-related costs and other significant items, and equity in net income of affiliate for investments managed within each operating segment. We have four reportable segments: (1) Business Solutions, (2) Entertainment Group, (3) Consumer Mobility and (4) International.

Additional information about our segments, including financial information, is included under the heading "Segment Results" on pages 13 through 19 and in Note 4 of the Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

BUSINESS SOLUTIONS

Our Business Solutions segment provides services to business, governmental and wholesale customers and individual subscribers who purchase wireless services through employer-sponsored plans. Services in this segment are marketed to provide a complete communications solution to customers. The Business Solutions segment provided approximately 49% of 2015 segment operating revenues and 59% of our 2015 total segment contribution. We divide Business Solutions revenue into the following categories: wireless service, fixed strategic services, legacy voice and data services, other services and wireless equipment.

Wireless Service     We offer a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice and data communications services in a variety of pricing plans to approximately 73.7 million Business Solutions wireless subscribers. Our offerings are tailored to meet the communications needs of targeted customer categories, including youth, family, professionals, small businesses, government and business.  We classify our subscribers as either postpaid, connected device or reseller.

Wireless data services continue to be a growing area for this segment, representing an increasing share of overall subscriber revenue. We are experiencing solid growth as an increasing number of our subscribers have upgraded their handsets to more advanced integrated devices, are using data-centric devices such as tablets and connected cars and are utilizing the network to connect and control physical devices using embedded computing systems and/or software, or the Internet of Things (IoT). We offer Mobile Share plans which allow sharing of voice, text and data across multiple devices, AT T Next SM  (AT T Next), a program allowing subscribers to more frequently upgrade handsets using an installment payment plan and in January 2015 began offering Rollover Data on Mobile Share plans, which allows unused shareable plan data to be rolled over and used within the next month. Such offerings are intended to encourage existing subscribers to upgrade their current services and/or add connected devices, attract subscribers from other providers, and minimize subscriber churn. Participation in these plans continues to increase. Customers in our "connected device" category (e.g., users of session-based tablets, monitoring devices and automobile systems) purchase those devices from third-party suppliers that buy data access supported by our network. We continue to upgrade our network and coordinate with equipment manufacturers and applications developers in order to further capitalize on the continued growth in the demand for wireless data services.

During 2015, we offered postpaid wireless service under two alternatives: (1) for subscribers purchasing a device on installments under the AT T Next program or for those that bring their own device, no annual service contract is signed but the device must be paid in full if the customer chooses to drop their service from AT  and (2) for subscribers who purchase their handset under the traditional device subsidy model, service contracts are for two year periods with an increasing portion of these subscribers receiving unlimited voice and texting services in conjunction with data services purchased through our Mobile Share plans. In late December 2015, we announced an end to offering subsidized handsets for most of our customers. Our wireless services include data and voice services, including long-distance service and roaming services. Roaming services enable our subscribers to utilize other carriers' networks when they are "roaming" outside our network footprint.

Fixed Strategic Services    Fixed strategic services (previously known as strategic business services) are our most advanced business solutions. Our offerings use high-capacity digital circuits, and allow customers to create internal data networks and to access external data networks. Switched Transport services transmit data using switching equipment to transfer the data between multiple lines before reaching its destination. Dedicated transport services use a single direct line to transmit data between destinations.

4

AT T Inc.

We provide businesses voice applications over IP-based networks (i.e., Enhanced Virtual Private Networks or "EVPN"). Over the past several years, we have built out our new IP/MPLS (Internet Protocol/MultiProtocol Label Switching) network, to supplement our IP-based product set, and eventually replace our older circuit-based networks and services. These products allow us to provide highly complex global data networks. Additional IP-based services include Internet access and network integration, dedicated Internet and enterprise networking services. These advanced IP-based services continued to grow during 2015 as customers shift from our older circuit-based services. We expect this trend to continue in 2016 as customers continue to use more services based on Internet access and demand ever-increasing transmission speeds, especially for video. To align with these trends, we continue to reconfigure our wireline network to take advantage of the latest technologies and services.

Network integration services include installation of business data systems, local area networking and other data networking offerings. Internet access services include a wide range of products including access service, dedicated access, web hosting, managed services, e-mail and high-speed access services. Our managed web-hosting services for businesses provide network, server and security infrastructure as well as built-in data storage and include application performance management, database management, hardware and operating system management. Our hosting services also provide customers with secure access to detailed reporting information about their infrastructure and applications. These services are rapidly evolving to a cloud delivery model, providing customers with on-demand data storage and computing capabilities from a centrally-managed network (referred to as the cloud) accessible from a variety of different devices and locations.

Packet services consist of data networks using packet switching and transmission technologies, including traditional circuit-based and IP connectivity services. Packet services enable customers to transmit large volumes of data economically and securely and are used for local area network (LAN) interconnection and inter-office communications. High-speed packet services are used extensively by enterprise (large business) customers.

Enterprise networking services provide comprehensive support from network design, implementation and installation to ongoing network operations and management for networks of varying scales, including LANs and virtual private networks. These services include applications such as e-mail, order entry systems, employee directories, human resource transactions and other database applications. We also offer Wi-Fi service.

Legacy Voice and Data Services    Voice services include traditional local and long-distance service provided to business and governmental customers, and wholesale access to our network and individual network elements provided to competitors. We also provide wholesale switched access service to other service providers. Our circuit-based, traditional data products include switched and dedicated transport services that allow business customers to transmit data at high speeds, as well as DSL Internet access.

Revenues from our traditional voice services continue to decline as customers switch to wireless or VoIP services provided by either us, cable or other Internet-based providers. In addition, the continuing slow economic growth and business starts have led some wireline customers to terminate their business phone service. We have responded by offering packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband and video, and intend to continue this strategy during 2016.

Other Services    Other service revenues include project-based revenue, which is nonrecurring in nature, as well as revenues from other managed services, outsourcing, government professional service and equipment.

We provide intrastate, interstate and international wholesale networking capacity to other service providers. We offer a combination of high-volume transmission capacity and conventional dedicated line services on a regional, national and international basis to our wholesale customers, which are primarily wireless carriers, interexchange carriers, Internet service providers (ISPs) and facility-based and switchless resellers.

Wireless Equipment      We sell a wide variety of handsets, wirelessly enabled computers (e.g., tablets and notebooks) and personal computer wireless data cards manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents or third-party retail stores. Like other wireless service providers, we have historically provided postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to initiate, renew or upgrade service. To reduce these subsidies and provide our customers with more service options, in 2013, we launched our AT T Next program, which allows customers to buy handsets on an installment basis in exchange for discounted service charges, along with other benefits, and we also offer new customers the opportunity to bring their own device. Due to the popularity of this program, in late December 2015, we announced that we would no longer offer subsidized equipment to the majority of customers. Accordingly, we expect equipment revenues to continue to increase in 2016 along with a proportionate decline in service revenues. We also sell accessories, such as carrying cases, hands-free devices, and other items, to consumers, as well as to agents and third-party distributors for resale.

5

AT T Inc.

Additional information on our Business Solutions segment is contained in the Annual Report in the "Operating Environment Overview" section beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ENTERTAINMENT GROUP

Our Entertainment Group segment provides video, Internet and voice communication services to residential customers in the U.S. and U.S. territories. In July 2015, we acquired DIRECTV, a leading provider of digital television entertainment engaged in acquiring, promoting, selling and distributing digital entertainment programming primarily via satellite to subscribers. The Entertainment Group segment provided approximately 24% of 2015 segment operating revenues and 7% of our 2015 total segment contribution. We divide this segment's revenue into the following categories: video entertainment, high-speed Internet, legacy voice and data services, and equipment and other.

Video Entertainment    We offer video entertainment services using satellite and IP-based technologies. Our offerings are structured to provide customers with the best video experience both inside and outside of the home by offering subscribers attractive programming, technology and customer service. Due to the rising cost of programming as well as higher costs to acquire new subscribers in an increasingly competitive industry, it is even more important to distinguish and elevate our video entertainment experience for our new and existing customers.

We provide approximately 25.4 million subscribers with access to hundreds of channels of digital-quality video entertainment and audio programming. For our satellite subscribers, we provide video-on-demand (VOD) by "pushing" top-rated movies onto customers' digital video recorders (DVRs) for instant viewing, as well as via broadband to our subscribers who have connected their set-top receiver to their broadband service. In addition, our video entertainment subscribers have the ability to use the Internet and/or our mobile applications for smartphones and tablets to view authorized content, search program listings and schedule DVR recordings.

We believe it is critical that we continue to extend our brand leadership as the premium pay-TV provider in the marketplace by providing the best video experience both at home and on mobile devices. We believe that our flexible platform that uses a combination of satellite, IP-based and cloud infrastructure with a broadband and wireless connection is the most efficient way to transport content to subscribers when and where they want it. Through this integrated approach, we're able to optimize the use of storage in the home as well as in the cloud, while also providing a seamless service for consumers across screens and locations.

High-Speed Internet    We offer broadband and Internet services to 12.4 million residential subscribers. Our IP-based technology provides more advanced high-speed Internet services.

Legacy Voice and Data Services    Voice services include traditional local and long-distance service provided to residential customers. Our circuit-based, traditional data products include DSL Internet access.

Revenues from our traditional voice services continue to decline as customers switch to wireless or VoIP services provided by either us, cable or other Internet-based providers. We have responded by offering packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband, video and wireless, and intend to continue this strategy during 2016.

Equipment and Other    Other service revenues include revenue from voice services provided over IP-based technology (VoIP) as well as revenues associated with technical support and other customer service functions and equipment.

Additional information on our Entertainment Group segment is contained in the Annual Report in the "Operating Environment Overview" section beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

6

AT T Inc.

CONSUMER MOBILITY 

This segment consists of AT T Mobility operations that provide wireless services to consumers, and wireless wholesale and resale subscribers located in the U.S. or U.S. territories. Wireless services include data and voice services, including long-distance service and roaming services.  Roaming services enable our subscribers to utilize other carriers' networks when they are "roaming" outside our network footprint.  The Consumer Mobility segment provided approximately 24% of 2015 total segment operating revenues and 35% of our 2015 total segment contribution. We classify our subscribers as either postpaid, prepaid, connected device or reseller. At December 31, 2015, we served nearly 55.0 million Consumer Mobility subscribers, including 28.8 million postpaid, 11.5 million prepaid, 13.7 million reseller and 929,000 connected devices. We divide our revenue into the following categories: postpaid wireless, prepaid wireless, other services, and equipment.

Postpaid Wireless      We offer a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice and data communications services in a variety of pricing plans. Wireless data services continue to be a growing area of Consumer Mobility's business, representing an increasing share of overall subscriber revenue. Subscribers continue to upgrade their handsets to more advanced integrated devices, contributing to growth from wireless data services. We offer Mobile Share plans which allow sharing of voice, text and data across multiple devices, AT T Next, a program allowing subscribers to more frequently upgrade handsets using an installment payment plan and in January 2015 began offering Rollover Data on Mobile Share plans, which allows unused shareable plan data to be rolled over and used within the next month. Such offerings are intended to encourage existing subscribers to upgrade their current services and/or add connected devices, attract subscribers from other providers, and minimize subscriber churn. Participation in these plans continues to increase. Customers in our "connected device" category (e.g.,  users of session-based tablets, monitoring devices and automobile systems ) purchase those devices from third-party suppliers that buy data access supported by our network. We continue to upgrade our network and coordinate with equipment manufacturers and applications developers in order to further capitalize on the continued growth in the demand for wireless data services.

During 2015, we offered postpaid wireless service under two alternatives: (1) for subscribers purchasing a device on installments under the AT T Next program or for those that bring their own device, no annual service contract is signed but the device must be paid in full if the customer chooses to drop their service from AT  and (2) for subscribers who purchase their equipment under the traditional device subsidy model, service contracts are for two year periods with an increasing portion of these subscribers receiving unlimited voice and texting services in conjunction with data services purchased through our Mobile Share plans. Market maturity, competition and the migration of subscribers to employer plans offered by our Business Solutions segment have slowed the growth in subscribers.

Prepaid Wireless    We offer nationwide wireless voice and data communications to certain customers who prefer to pay in advance. Services are offered under the Cricket or Go Phone brands and are typically monthly prepaid services.

Other Service    Other services includes consulting, revenues from advertising, application and co-location services as well as fees we charge to other carriers for providing roaming services to their customers when their customers utilize our network.

Equipment      We sell a wide variety of handsets, wirelessly enabled computers (e.g., tablets and notebooks) and personal computer wireless data cards manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents or third-party retail stores. Like other wireless service providers, we have historically provided postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to initiate, renew or upgrade service. To reduce these subsidies and provide our customers with more service options, in 2014, we launched our AT T Next program, which allows customers to buy handsets on an installment basis in exchange for discounted service charges, along with other benefits, and we also offer new customers the opportunity to bring their own device. Due to the popularity of this program, in late December 2015, we announced that we would no longer offer subsidized equipment. Accordingly, we expect equipment revenues to continue to increase in 2016 along with a proportionate decline in service revenues. We also sell accessories, such as carrying cases, hands-free devices, and other items, to consumers, as well as to agents and third-party distributors for resale.

Additional information on our Consumer Mobility segment is contained in the Annual Report in the "Operating Environment Overview" section beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

7

AT T Inc.

INTERNATIONAL 

Our International segment business units provide video entertainment services to residential customers in Latin America and wireless data and voice communication services to consumer and business customers in Mexico. The International segment provided approximately 3% of 2015 segment operating revenues. We divide our revenue into the following categories: video entertainment, wireless, and equipment.

Video Entertainment    We are a leading provider of digital television services throughout Latin America, providing a wide selection of local and international digital-quality video entertainment and audio programming under the DIRECTV and SKY brands. We believe we provide one of the most extensive collections of programming available in the Latin America pay television market, including HD sports video content and the most innovative interactive technology across the region. In addition, we have the unique ability to sell superior offerings of our differentiated products and services on a continent-wide basis with an operational cost structure that we believe to be lower than that of our competition.

We have approximately 12.5 million video subscribers in Latin America. Our operations are comprised of: PanAmericana, which provides services in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela and certain other countries in the region, and SKY Brasil Servicos Ltda., or SKY Brasil, which is a 93% owned subsidiary. Our Latin American operations also include our 41% equity method investment in Innova, S. de R.L. de C.V., or SKY Mexico, which we include in our International segment. As of December 31, 2015, PanAmericana had approximately 7.1 million subscribers, SKY Brasil had approximately 5.4 million subscribers.

To subscribe to the DIRECTV or SKY service, customers sign up for our video service directly through us or our regional retailers, or independent satellite television retailers or dealers. We offer postpaid products and services to customers who meet our standard requirements. For these customers, dealers or one of our home service providers install the receiving equipment. In addition, we offer prepaid service for customers that desire payment and commitment flexibility. These customers may purchase a standard-definition receiver and antenna and pre-pay their DIRECTV service through one or more means, such as the purchase of a rechargeable card that they can acquire at a retailer or local kiosk. The video service will automatically disconnect once the balance of the customer's pre-payment expires.

In addition to traditional pay-television services, in Latin America we continue to focus on selectively pursuing opportunities to acquire wireless spectrum and, where we have acquired spectrum, to build out a technologically robust and profitable fixed wireless broadband service in areas where we have an existing subscriber base and there are weak competitive wireline offerings or access to broadband is limited. We currently have spectrum holdings that cover approximately 50 million households across Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela and Peru.

Wireless    We offer postpaid and prepaid wireless services to approximately 8.7 million subscribers under the AT T, Iusacell, Unefon and Nextel Mexico brands. Postpaid services allow (1) for subscribers purchasing a device on installments or for those that bring their own device, no annual service contract is signed but the device must be paid in full if the customer chooses to drop their service from AT  and (2) for subscribers who purchase their equipment under the traditional device subsidy model, service contracts are for periods up to 24 months. All plans offer no roaming charges to the U.S. or Canada, unlimited minutes and messages to the extended AT T community and unlimited social networking. We also offer prepaid services to certain customers who prefer to pay in advance.

Equipment      We sell a wide variety of handsets, including smartphones manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents or third-party retail stores.

Additional information on our International segment is contained in the Annual Report in the "Operating Environment Overview" section beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

8

AT T Inc.

MAJOR CLASSES OF SERVICE 

The following table sets forth the percentage of total consolidated reported operating revenues by any class of service that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal years:

1    Includes customer premises equipment of $929 million in 2015, $979 million in 2014, and $1,046 million in 2013 that is reported as other service and equipment revenues in our Business Solutions segment.

2  Includes customer premises equipment of $22 million in 2015, $40 million in 2014, and $66 million in 2013 that is reported as other service and equipment revenues in our Entertainment Group segment.

3  Includes the combined service revenues for postpaid and prepaid services.

Additional information on our geographical distribution of revenues is contained in the Annual Report in the "Segment Geography" section beginning on page 55 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Wireless communications providers must be licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC. The FCC's rules have a direct impact on whether the wireless industry has sufficient spectrum available to support the high quality, innovative services our customers demand. Wireless licenses are issued for a fixed time period, typically ten years, and we must seek renewal of these licenses. While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies such as us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest. Additionally, while wireless communications providers' prices and service offerings are generally not subject to regulation, the federal government and various states are considering new regulations and legislation relating to various aspects of wireless services.

The Communications Act of 1934 and other related acts give the FCC broad authority to regulate the U.S. operations of our satellite services, which are licensed by the FCC. In addition, states representing a majority of our local service access lines have adopted legislation that enables us to provide IP-based video service through a single statewide or state-approved franchise (as opposed to the need to acquire hundreds or even thousands of municipal-approved franchises) to offer competitive video services. We also are supporting efforts to update and improve regulatory treatment for retail services. Regulatory reform and passage of legislation is uncertain and depends on many factors.

In February 2015, the FCC released an order in response to the D.C. Circuit's January 2014 decision adopting new rules, and reclassifying both fixed and mobile consumer broadband Internet access services as telecommunications services, subject to comprehensive regulation under the Telecommunications Act of 1996. The FCC's decision significantly expands the FCC's existing authority to regulate the provision of fixed and mobile broadband Internet access services. The FCC also asserted jurisdiction over Internet interconnection arrangements, which until now have been unregulated. These actions could have an adverse impact on our fixed and mobile broadband services and operating results. AT T and several other parties, including US Telecom and CTIA trade groups, have appealed the FCC's order.

9

AT T Inc.

Our ILEC subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state governments, which have the power to regulate intrastate rates and services, including local, long-distance and network access services, provided such state regulation is consistent with federal law. Some states have eliminated or reduced regulations on our retail offerings. These subsidiaries are also subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC with respect to intercarrier compensation, interconnection, and interstate and international rates and services, including interstate access charges. Access charges are a form of intercarrier compensation designed to compensate our wireline subsidiaries for the use of their networks by other carriers.

Our subsidiaries operating outside the United States are subject to the jurisdiction of national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is provided.

Additional information relating to regulation of our subsidiaries is contained in the Annual Report under the headings "Operating Environment Overview" beginning on page 22 and "Regulatory Developments" beginning on page 24 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES

Certain of our subsidiaries own or have licenses to various patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property necessary to conduct business. Many of our subsidiaries also hold government-issued licenses or franchises to provide wireline, satellite or wireless services and regulation affecting those rights is contained in the Annual Report under the heading "Operating Environment Overview" beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). We actively pursue patents, trademarks and service marks to protect our intellectual property within the U.S. and abroad. We maintain a significant global portfolio of patents, trademarks and service mark registrations. We have also entered into agreements that permit other companies, in exchange for fees and subject to appropriate safeguards and restrictions, to utilize certain of our trademarks and service marks. We periodically receive offers from third parties to obtain licenses for patents and other intellectual rights in exchange for royalties or other payments. We also receive notices asserting that our products or services infringe on their patents and other intellectual property rights. These claims, whether against us directly or against third-party suppliers of products or services that we, in turn, sell to our customers, such as wireless handsets, could require us to pay damages, royalties, stop offering the relevant products or services and/or cease other activities. While the outcome of any litigation is uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these infringement claims or the expiration or non-renewal of any of our intellectual property rights would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

MAJOR CUSTOMER

No customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2015, 2014 or 2013.

COMPETITION

Information relating to competition in each of our operating segments is contained in the Annual Report under the heading "Competition" beginning on page 24, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

10

AT T Inc.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

AT T scientists and engineers conduct research in a variety of areas, including IP networking; advanced network design and architecture; network and cyber security; network operations support systems; satellite technology; and data mining techniques. The majority of the development activities are performed by AT T Services, Inc. The developers within AT T Services, Inc. work with our business units to create new services and invent tools and systems to manage secure and reliable networks for us and our customers. In recent years, we initiated a technology outreach effort aimed at venture capital funded startups with the objective of rapidly introducing new solutions, products and applications developed by third parties. We also have a research agreement with Ericsson. Research and development expenses were $1,693 million in 2015, $1,730 million in 2014, and $1,488 million in 2013.

EMPLOYEES

As of January 31, 2016, we employed approximately 281,000 persons. Approximately 45 percent of our employees are represented by the Communications Workers of America, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or other unions. Four-year contracts covering approximately 24,000 traditional wireline employees in our Southeast region were ratified on December 4, 2015. Contracts covering approximately 9,000 mobility employees in the Southwest region and nearly 16,000 traditional wireline employees in our West region will expire in 2016. After expiration of the current agreements, work stoppages or labor disruptions may occur in the absence of new contracts or other agreements being reached. A separate contract covering only benefits with approximately 40,000 employees in our mobility business expires in 2016, though there is a no strike/no lock-out clause. Contracts covering wages and other non-benefit working terms for these mobility employees are structured on a regional basis.

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 322,422 retirees who, along with their dependents, were eligible to receive retiree benefits.

11

AT T Inc.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Information required by this Item is included in the Annual Report under the heading "Risk Factors" on pages 36 through 39 which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Information set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially. Many of these factors are discussed in more detail in the "Risk Factors" section. We claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

The following factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:

Adverse economic and/or capital access changes in the markets served by us or in countries in which we have significant investments, including the impact on customer demand and our ability and our suppliers' ability to access financial markets at favorable rates and terms.

Changes in available technology and the effects of such changes, including product substitutions and deployment costs.

Increases in our benefit plans' costs, including increases due to adverse changes in the United States and foreign securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed investment returns and discount rates; adverse changes in mortality assumptions; adverse medical cost trends, and unfavorable or delayed implementation of healthcare legislation, regulations or related court decisions.

The final outcome of FCC and other federal or state agency proceedings (including judicial review, if any, of such proceedings) involving issues that are important to our business, including, without limitation, intercarrier compensation, interconnection obligations, pending Notices of Apparent Liability, the transition from legacy technologies to IP-based infrastructure including the withdrawal of legacy TDM-based services, universal service, broadband deployment, E911 services, competition policy, net neutrality, including the FCC's order reclassifying broadband as Title II services subject to much more fulsome regulation, unbundled network elements and other wholesale obligations, multi-channel video programming distributor services and equipment, availability of new spectrum from the FCC on fair and balanced terms, and wireless and satellite license awards and renewals.

The final outcome of state and federal legislative efforts involving issues that are important to our business, including deregulation of IP-based services, relief from Carrier of Last Resort obligations, and elimination of state commission review of the withdrawal of services.

Enactment of additional state, federal and/or foreign regulatory and tax laws and regulations pertaining to our subsidiaries and foreign investments, including laws and regulations that reduce our incentive to invest in our networks, resulting in lower revenue growth and/or higher operating costs.

Our ability to absorb revenue losses caused by increasing competition, including offerings that use alternative technologies or delivery methods (e.g., cable, wireless, VoIP and Over The Top Video service) and our ability to maintain capital expenditures.

The extent of competition including from governmental networks and other providers and the resulting pressure on customer and access line totals and segment operating margins.

Our ability to develop attractive and profitable product/service offerings to offset increasing competition.

The ability of our competitors to offer product/service offerings at lower prices due to lower cost structures and regulatory and legislative actions adverse to us, including state regulatory proceedings relating to unbundled network elements and nonregulation of comparable alternative technologies (e.g., VoIP).

The continued development and delivery of attractive and profitable video offerings through satellite and U-verse; the extent to which regulatory and build-out requirements apply to our offerings; and the availability, cost and/or reliability of the various technologies and/or content required to provide such offerings.

Our continued ability to attract and offer a diverse portfolio of wireless service and devices, device financing plans, and maintain margins.

The availability and cost of additional wireless spectrum and regulations and conditions relating to spectrum use, licensing, obtaining additional spectrum, technical standards and deployment and usage, including network management rules.

Our ability to manage growth in wireless data services, including network quality and acquisition of adequate spectrum at reasonable costs and terms.

The outcome of pending, threatened or potential litigation, including without limitation, patent and product safety claims by or against third parties.

12

AT T Inc.

The impact on our networks, including satellites operated by DIRECTV, and business from major equipment failures; security breaches related to the network or customer information; our inability to obtain handsets, equipment/software or have handsets, equipment/software serviced, and in the case of satellites launched, in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers; or severe weather conditions, natural disasters, pandemics, energy shortages, wars or terrorist attacks.

The issuance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other accounting oversight bodies of new accounting standards or changes to existing standards.

The issuance by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state or foreign tax authorities of new tax regulations or changes to existing standards and actions by federal, state, local or foreign tax agencies and judicial authorities with respect to applying applicable tax laws and regulations and the resolution of disputes with any taxing jurisdictions.

Our ability to integrate our acquisition of DIRECTV.

Our ability to adequately fund our wireless operations, including payment for additional spectrum, network upgrades and technological advancements.

Our increased exposure to video competition and foreign economies due to our recent acquisitions of DIRECTV and Mexican wireless properties, including foreign exchange fluctuations , as well as regulatory and political uncertainty in Latin America.

Changes in our corporate strategies, such as changing network requirements or acquisitions and dispositions, which may require significant amounts of cash or stock, to respond to competition and regulatory, legislative and technological developments.

The uncertainty surrounding further congressional action to address spending reductions, which may result in a significant reduction in government spending and reluctance of businesses and consumers to spend in general and on our products and services specifically, due to this fiscal uncertainty.

Readers are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not enumerated here, also could materially affect our future earnings.

13

AT T Inc.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Our properties do not lend themselves to description by character and location of principal units. At December 31, 2015, central office equipment represented 30%; outside plant (including cable, wiring and other non-central office network equipment) represented approximately 25%; satellites represented 1%; other equipment, comprised principally of wireless network equipment attached to towers, furniture and office equipment and vehicles and other work equipment, represented 26%; land, building and wireless communications towers represented 12%; and other miscellaneous property represented 6%.

Substantially all of the installations of central office equipment are located in buildings and on land we own. Many garages, administrative and business offices, wireless towers, telephone centers and retail stores are leased. Property, on which communication towers are located, may be either owned or leased.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are a party to numerous lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business. As of the date of this report, we do not believe any pending legal proceedings to which we or our subsidiaries are subject are required to be disclosed as material legal proceedings pursuant to this item.

We are subject from time to time to judicial and administrative proceedings brought by various governmental authorities under federal, state or local environmental laws. We are required to discuss three of these proceedings in our Forms 10-Q and 10-K, because each could result in monetary sanctions (exclusive of interest and costs) of one hundred thousand dollars or more. However, we do not believe that any of them currently pending will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

(a)

Waste Disposal Inquiry Involving DIRECTV   In August 2012, a government investigation unit organized by the California Attorney General and the District Attorney for Alameda County, California notified DIRECTV that the unit was investigating allegations that DIRECTV had failed to properly manage, store, transport and dispose of Hazardous and Universal Waste in accordance with the California Health   Safety Code. No litigation has been filed. DIRECTV is cooperating with the investigators and is seeking to resolve all claims. At this time, it is possible that we could face civil penalties in excess of one hundred thousand dollars but not in an amount that would be material.

(b)

San Diego County Inquiry Involving Cricket Communications, Inc.   In February 2014, the San Diego County Air Pollution Control District initiated investigation into alleged violations of California regulations governing removal, handling and disposal of asbestos containing materials arising from an independent dealer's demolition and construction activity in preparation to install upgraded point of purchase and fixtures in accordance with Cricket Dealer Guidelines. While the independent dealer was in sole control of contractors performing the work at issue, the County has focused on Cricket Communications dealer agreement terms and interactions with the independent dealer as a basis for asserting direct liability against Cricket Communications, Inc. After exchanges of information and discussions, in November 2015, the County issued a penalty demand in excess of one hundred thousand dollars. We continue communications with the County with a view for resolution of this matter, and in no event expect monetary settlement amounts including penalties will be material.

(c)

South Coast Air Quality     On January 15, 2016, AT T Mobility received an offer to enter into an administrative settlement with California's South Coast Air Quality Management District associated with a Notice of Violation (NOV) received previously, in 2015. The 2015 NOV alleged violations of local environmental air permitting and emissions rules issued by the District in connection with operation of a back-up power generator system at one AT T Mobility facility. The January 2016 letter followed discussions directed to resolution of the issues raised in the NOV. Based on the terms of the offer, it is likely that AT T Mobility may pay civil penalties in excess of one hundred thousand dollars, but in no event an amount that would be material.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

14

AT T Inc.

Name 

Age  

Position 

Held Since 

Randall L. Stephenson

55

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President

6/2007

William A. Blase Jr.

60

Senior Executive Vice President   Human Resources

6/2007

James W. Cicconi

63

Senior Executive Vice President   External and Legislative Affairs

11/2008

Ralph de la Vega

64

Vice Chairman, AT T Inc. and Chief Executive Officer, AT T Business Solutions and AT T International, LLC

2/2016

John M. Donovan

55

Chief Strategy Officer and Group President   AT T Technology and Operations

2/2016

David S. Huntley

57

Chief Compliance Officer

12/2014

Lori M. Lee

50

Senior Executive Vice President and Global Marketing Officer

4/2015

David R. McAtee II

47

Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel

10/2015

John T. Stankey

53

Chief Executive Officer-AT T Entertainment Group, AT T Services, Inc.

7/2015

John J. Stephens

56

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

6/2011

All of the above executive officers have held high-level managerial positions with AT T or its subsidiaries for more than the past five years, except for Mr. McAtee. Mr. McAtee was a partner of Haynes and Boone, LLP, a law firm based in Dallas, Texas, from January 2002 to December 2011. Mr. McAtee joined AT T as Senior Vice President and Assistant General Counsel in January 2012. He served as Senior Associate General Counsel from March 2015 to September 2015. Executive officers are not appointed to a fixed term of office.

15

AT T Inc.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

(a) Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The number of stockholders of record as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 was 1,074,894 and 1,093,818. The number of stockholders of record as of February 10, 2016, was 1,070,877. We declared dividends, on a quarterly basis, totaling $1.89 per share in 2015 and $1.85 per share in 2014.

Other information required by this Item is included in the Annual Report under the headings "Quarterly Financial Information" on page 79, "Selected Financial and Operating Data" on page 10, and "Stock Trading Information" on the back cover, which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

(c) In July 2012, the Board of Directors approved an authorization to repurchase 300 million shares, which we completed in May 2013. In March 2013, our Board of Directors approved an authorization to repurchase up to an additional 300 million shares of our common stock.  In March 2014, our Board of Directors approved another authorization to repurchase up to an additional 300 million shares of our common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we repurchased 8 million shares for distribution through our employee benefit plans totaling $269 under the March 2013 authorization. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we repurchased 48 million shares totaling $1,617 under the March 2013 authorization. With the completion of the DIRECTV acquisition, our priority will be to use free cash flow (operating cash flows less construction and capital expenditures) after dividends to pay down debt.

To implement these authorizations, we used open market repurchase programs, relying on Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 where feasible.

We will continue to fund any share repurchases through a combination of cash from operations, borrowings dependent on market conditions, or cash from the disposition of certain non-strategic investments.

A summary of our repurchases of common stock during the fourth quarter of 2015 is as follows:

16

AT T Inc.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Information required by this Item is included in the Annual Report under the heading "Selected Financial and Operating Data" on page 10, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

Information required by this Item is included in the Annual Report on pages 11 through 40, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information required by this Item is included in the Annual Report under the heading "Market Risk" on page 35, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Information required by this Item is included in the Annual Report on pages 41 through 79, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING

AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

During our two most recent fiscal years, there has been no change in the independent accountant engaged as the principal accountant to audit our financial statements and the independent accountant has not expressed reliance on other independent accountants in its reports during such time period.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The registrant maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the registrant is recorded, processed, summarized, accumulated and communicated to its management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2015. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2015.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

(a)  Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The management of AT T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. AT T's internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the integrity and reliability of the published financial statements. AT T management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  (2013 framework ) . We have excluded from the scope of our assessment of internal control over financial reporting the operations and related assets of DIRECTV and Mexico wireless operations (Mexico), which we acquired in 2015. At December 31, 2015 and for the period from acquisition through December 31, 2015, total assets and operating revenues subject to DIRECTV's internal control over financial reporting represented 20.3% and 9.9% of AT T's consolidated total assets and total revenues as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015 and for the period from acquisition through December 31, 2015, total assets and operating revenues subject to Mexico's internal control over financial reporting represented 1.6% and 1.3% of AT T's consolidated total assets and total revenues as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015. Based on its assessment, AT T management believes that, as of December 31, 2015, the Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

17 

AT T Inc.

(b)  Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The independent registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included in the Annual Report containing the disclosure required by this Item, Ernst   Young LLP, has issued an attestation report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. The attestation report issued by Ernst   Young LLP is included in the Annual Report on page 81, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION

There is no information that was required to be disclosed in a report on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of 2015 but was not reported.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Information regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is furnished in a separate disclosure at the end of Part I of this report since the registrant did not furnish such information in its definitive proxy statement prepared in accordance with Schedule 14A. Information regarding directors required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant's definitive proxy statement, dated on or about March 11, 2016 (Proxy Statement) under the heading "Election of Directors."

The registrant has a separately-designated standing audit committee established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The members of the committee are Messrs. Di Piazza, Jr., Madonna, McCallister, and Mses. Taylor and Tyson. The additional information required by Item 407(d)(5) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant's Proxy Statement under the heading "Audit Committee."

The registrant has adopted a code of ethics entitled "Code of Ethics" that applies to the registrant's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, or controller or persons performing similar functions. The additional information required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K is provided in this report under the heading "General" under Part I, Item 1. Business.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information required by Item 402(k) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant's Proxy Statement under the heading "Compensation of Directors." Information regarding officers is included in the registrant's Proxy Statement on the pages beginning with the heading "Compensation Discussion and Analysis" and ending with, and including, the pages under the heading "Potential Payments upon Change in Control" which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3). Information required by Item 407(e)(5) of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant's Proxy Statement under the heading "Compensation Committee Report" and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3) and shall be deemed furnished in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Information required by this Item is included in the registrant's Proxy Statement, under the heading "Compensation of Directors," and the pages beginning with the heading "Summary Compensation Table," and ending with, and including, the page immediately before the heading "Equity Compensation Plan Information" which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND

MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant's Proxy Statement under the heading "Common   Stock Ownership," which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

Information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3) from the registrant's Proxy Statement under the heading "Equity Compensation Plan Information."

18 

AT T Inc.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

Information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant's Proxy Statement under the heading "Related Person Transactions," which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3). Information required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K is included in the registrant's Proxy Statement under the heading "Independence of Directors," which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Information required by this Item is included in the registrant's Proxy Statement under the heading "Principal Accountant Fees and Services," which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

Part IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS and FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a) Documents filed as a part of the report:

Page

(1) Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                                                                                                                                                  * 

Financial Statements covered by Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm:

Consolidated Statements of Income                                                                                                                                                                                                     * 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income                                                                                                                                                          * 

Consolidated Balance Sheets                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                                                                                                                                                                                         * 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity                                                                                                                                  * 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                                                                                                                                               * 

* 
 Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. (See Part II.) 

Page

(2) Financial Statement Schedules:

II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                                                                                                                                                                      24  

Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted because the required information is contained in the financial statements and notes thereto, or because such schedules are not required or applicable.

(3) Exhibits:

Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the SEC, are incorporated herein by reference as exhibits hereto. Unless otherwise indicated, all exhibits so incorporated are from File No. 1-8610.

Exhibit 

Number

2

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 18, 2014, among AT T Inc., DIRECTV and Steam Merger Sub LLC. (Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated May 18, 2014.)

3-a

Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on December 13, 2013. (Exhibit 3.1 to Form 8-K dated December 13, 2013.)

3-b

Bylaws amended December 18, 2015. (Exhibit 3 to Form 8-K dated December 18, 2015.)

4-a

No instrument which defines the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant and all of its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), except for the instruments referred to in 4-b, 4-c, 4-d, 4-e, 4-f, 4-g, 4-h, 4-i, and 4-j below. Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument not filed herewith to the SEC upon request.

19

AT T Inc.

20

AT T Inc.

21

AT T Inc.

22

AT T Inc.

31.1 
             Certification of Principal Executive Officer 

31.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer

32

Section 1350 Certification

99 
             Supplemental Interim Financial Information 

101

XBRL Instance Document

We will furnish to stockholders upon request, and without charge, a copy of the Annual Report to Stockholders and the Proxy Statement, portions of which are incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K. We will furnish any other exhibit at cost.

23

Schedule II - Sheet 1

AT T INC.

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Dollars in Millions

(a) 
 Includes amounts previously written off which were credited directly to this account when recovered. Excludes direct charges and credits to expense for nontrade receivables in the consolidated statements of income. 

(b) 
 Includes amounts related to long-distance carrier receivables which were billed by AT T. 

(c)

Acquisitions of DIRECTV and wireless properties in Mexico in 2015.

(d)

Amounts written off as uncollectible, or related to divested entities.

24

Schedule II - Sheet 2

AT T INC.

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets

Dollars in Millions

(a) 
 Includes current year reclassifications from other balance sheet accounts. 

(b) 
 Acquisitions of DIRECTV and wireless properties in Mexico in 2015. 

(c)               Reductions to valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets. 

25

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 18 th  day of February, 2016.

AT T INC.

/s/ John J. Stephens 

John J. Stephens

Senior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Principal Executive Officer:

Randall Stephenson*

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer

and President

Principal Financial and Accounting Officer:

John J. Stephens

Senior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

/s/ John J. Stephens    

John J. Stephens, as attorney-in-fact

and on his own behalf as Principal

Financial Officer and Principal

Accounting Officer

February 18, 2016

Directors:

Randall L. Stephenson*

Michael B. McCallister*

Samuel A. Di Piazza, Jr.*

John B. McCoy*

Richard W. Fisher*

Beth E. Mooney*

Scott T. Ford*

Joyce M. Roch *

Glenn H. Hutchins*

Matthew K. Rose*

William E. Kennard*

Cynthia B. Taylor*

Jon C. Madonna*

Laura D'Andrea Tyson*

* by power of attorney

<EX-10>
 2
 ex10_l.htm
 AT&T HEALTH PLAN

Exhibit 10-l

AT T HEALTH PLAN

Effective:  January 1, 1987

Previously Amended and Restated:  January 1, 2015

Amended and Restated Effective:  January 1, 2016 (unless otherwise provided herein)

AT T HEALTH PLAN

ARTICLE 1   PURPOSE

The AT T Health Plan ("Plan") provides Participants with supplemental medical, dental, and vision benefits.  Effective March 23, 2010, the Plan shall be frozen to new Participants, as further described in Section 2.16.  The Company intends this Plan to be a "grandfathered health plan" under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the "Affordable Care Act").  Appendix C hereto contains the required Participant disclosure regarding the Plan's grandfathered status under the Affordable Care Act.

ARTICLE 2   DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

2.1

Active Participant  .  "Active Participant" shall mean an Active Employee Participant and his Dependents.

2.2

Active Employee Participant  .  "Active Employee Participant" shall mean an Eligible Employee electing to participate in the Plan while in active service, on a Leave of Absence or while receiving short term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan.

2.3

Annual Deductible  .  "Annual Deductible" shall mean the amount the Active Participant must pay for Covered Health Services in a Plan Year before the Plan will begin paying for Covered Benefits in that calendar year.  The Annual Deductible applies to all Covered Health Services.  The Annual Deductible does not apply to Preventive Care, Dental Services and Vision Services.  Solely for purposes of this Plan, the Annual Deductible will operate on a combined basis with the Annual Deductible (both the "Network/ONA" and "Non-Network Benefit" annual deductibles) applicable in the AT T Medical Plan.  Once the Participant meets his applicable Annual Deductible, the Plan will begin to pay Covered Benefits, subject to any required Coinsurance, in accordance with and as governed by Section 4.1.  The applicable Annual Deductible is set forth in   Appendix A   to this Plan.

2.4

Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum   .   "Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum" shall mean the maximum amount of Covered Health Services an Active Participant must pay out-of-pocket every calendar year, including the Participant's Annual Deductible.  Solely for purposes of this Plan, the Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum will operate on a combined basis with the Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum (both the "Network/ONA" and "Non-Network Benefit annual out-of-pocket maximums) applicable in the AT T Medical Plan (or the Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum in the AT T International Health Plan for Officers serving in expatriate positions with the Company).  Once the Participant reaches the applicable Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum, Covered Benefits for those Covered Health Services that apply to the Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum are payable in accordance with and as governed by Section 4.1 during the rest of that Plan Year.  The following costs shall never apply toward the Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum:  (a) any applicable Monthly Contributions and (b) any charges for Non-Covered Health Services.  Even when the Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum has been reached, Covered Benefits will not be provided for the following:  (a) any applicable Monthly Contributions and (b) any charges for Non-Covered Health Services.  The applicable Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum is set forth in   Appendix A   to this Plan.

2.5

AT T  .  "AT T" shall mean AT T Inc.  References to "Company" shall mean AT T.

2.6

Basic Plan(s)  . "Basic Plan(s)" shall mean AT T's group medical (known as the "Silver Option" in the "AT T Medical Plan" (or the "AT T International Health Plan" for Officers serving in expatriate positions with the Company)), dental (non-DHMO option), and vision care plans (including the AT T Retiree Vision Care Program).  For a Participant who Retired on or before August 31, 1992, Basic Plans shall mean the AT T Medical and Group Life Insurance Plan CustomCare ("CustomCare") and dental (non-DHMO option) plans. For this purpose, the Plan Administrator maintains governing records setting forth the names of those Participants who Retired on or before August 31, 1992.

2.7

CEO  .  "CEO" shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of AT T Inc.

2.8

COBRA   .    " COBRA" shall mean the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended.

2.9

Coinsurance   .   "Coinsurance" shall mean the amount an Active Participant must pay each time he receives Covered Health Services, after he meets the applicable Annual Deductible.  Coinsurance payments are calculated as a percentage of Covered Health Services, rather than a set dollar amount.  Coinsurance does not apply to Preventive Care, Dental Services and Vision Services (or Medical Services for Retired Participants as provided in Section 4.1(c)).  The applicable Coinsurance percentage is set forth in   Appendix A   to this Plan.

2.10

Committee  .  "Committee" shall mean the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of AT T Inc.

2.11

Covered Benefits  .  "Covered Benefits" shall mean the benefits provided by the Plan, as provided for and governed by Section 4.1 of the Plan.

2.12

Covered Health Services  .  "Covered Health Services" means all Medical Services or Preventive Care that would qualify as deductible medical expenses for federal income tax purposes, whether deducted or not.  Dental Services and Vision Services are not included in the definition of Covered Health Services.

2.13

Dental Services  .  "Dental Services" shall mean services for dental and orthodontic care.   The Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether a particular service is classified as Preventive Care or a Dental, Medical or Vision Service.

2.14

Dependent(s)  .  "Dependent(s)" shall mean those individuals who would qualify as a Participant's dependent(s) under the terms of the group medical Basic Plan in which the Participant participates (or last previously participated with respect to Medicare Eligible Retired Participants (the "Prior Basic Plan"), or, if applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage.

2.15

Disability   .   "Disability" shall mean qualification for long term disability benefits under Section 3.1 of the Officer Disability Plan.

2.16

Eligible Employee  .  "Eligible Employee" shall mean an Officer.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the CEO may, from time to time, exclude any Officer or group of Officers from being an "Eligible Employee" under this Plan.  Employees of a company acquired by AT T shall not be considered an Eligible Employee unless designated as such by the CEO.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, only the Committee shall have the authority to exclude from participation or take any action with respect to Executive Officers.

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, individuals hired, rehired or promoted to an Officer level position on or after March 23, 2010 shall be excluded from the term Eligible Employee, and such individuals (and their Dependents) shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan.

2.17

Employer  .  "Employer" shall mean AT T Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries.

2.18

Executive Officer  .  "Executive Officer" shall mean any executive officer of AT T, as that term is used under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

2.19

Leave of Absence  .  "Leave of Absence" shall mean a Company-approved leave of absence.

2.20

Medical Services   .   "Medical Services" shall mean medical/surgical, mental health/substance abuse and prescription pharmacy services.  The Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether a particular service is classified as Preventive Care or a Medical, Dental or Vision Service.  Medical Services do not include Dental Services and Vision Services.

2.21

Monthly Contributions   .   "Monthly Contributions" shall mean the monthly premiums or contributions required for participation in this Plan as further governed by Article 7 of the Plan.  The applicable Monthly Contributions are set forth in Exhibit A to this Plan.

2.22

Non-Covered Health Services   .   "Non-Covered Health Services" shall mean any Medical Services or Preventive Care which do not meet the definition of Covered Health Services.

2.23

Officer  .  "Officer" shall mean an individual who is designated as an officer level employee for compensation purposes on the records of AT T.

2.24

Participant  .  "Participant" shall mean an Active Participant or Retired Participant or both, as the context indicates.

2.25

Plan Administrator  .  "Plan Administrator" shall mean the SEVP-HR, or any other person or persons whom the Committee may appoint to administer the Plan; provided that the Committee may act as the Plan Administrator at any time.

2.26

Plan Year  .    "Plan Year" shall mean the calendar year.

2.27

Preventive Care  .  "Preventive Care" shall have the same meaning as such term has in the AT T Medical Plan.  The plan administrator for the AT T Medical Plan shall determine whether a particular service constitutes Preventive Care and the Plan Administrator for this Plan shall rely upon such determination.

2.28

Qualified Dependent   .  "Qualified Dependent" shall mean  a Dependent who loses coverage under a COBRA eligible program due to a Qualifying Event.

2.29

Qualifying Event   .      "Qualifying Event" shall mean  any of the following events if, but for COBRA continuation coverage, they would result in a Participant's loss of coverage under this Plan:

(1) 
 death of a covered Eligible Employee; 

(2) 
 termination (other than by reason of such Eligible Employee's gross  misconduct) of an Employee's employment; 

(3) 
 reduction in hours of an Eligible Employee; 

(4) 
 divorce or legal separation of an Eligible Employee or dissolution of an Eligible Employee's registered domestic partnership; 

(5) 
 an Eligible Employee's entitlement to Medicare benefits; or 

(6) 
 a Dependent child ceasing to qualify as a Dependent under the group medical Basic Plan,(or, if applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage)  or with respect to a Dependent child who is a Medicare Eligible Retired Participant, the child's ceasing to otherwise qualify under the Prior Basic Plan . 

2.30

Retire, Retired or Retirement  .  "Retire," "Retired" or "Retirement" shall mean the termination of an Active Employee Participant's employment with AT T or any of its Subsidiaries, for reasons other than death, on or after the earlier of the following dates:  (1) the date such Active Employee Participant has attained age 55, and, for an Active Employee Participant on or after January 1, 2002, has five (5) years of service, or (2) the date the Active Employee Participant has attained one of the following combinations of age and service at termination of employment on or after April 1, 1997:   

Net Credited Service                                Age  

25 years or more                                                                          50 or older 

30 years or more                                                                          Any age 

2.31       Retired Participant  .  "Retired Participant" shall mean a Retired Employee Participant and his Dependents.

2.32       Retired Employee Participant  .  "Retired Employee Participant" shall mean a former Active Employee Participant who has Retired within the meaning of Section 2.30 and who meets the additional requirements of Section 3.2 to be eligible for coverage in Retirement.

2.33                  SEVP-HR   . "SEVP-HR" shall mean AT T's highest ranking Officer, specifically responsible for human resources matters. 

2.34                  Subsidiary  .  "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation, partnership, venture or other entity in which AT T holds, directly or indirectly, a 50% or greater ownership interest.  The Committee may, at its sole discretion, designate any other corporation, partnership, venture or other entity a Subsidiary for the purpose of participating in this Plan.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, unless designated a "Subsidiary" pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, Cingular Wireless LLC, Sterling Commerce, Inc., and their respective subsidiaries shall not be considered a Subsidiary under this Plan. 

2.35                  Vision Services  .  "Vision Services" shall mean services for vision care.  The Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether a particular service is classified as Preventive Care or a Vision, Medical or Dental Service. 

2.36      Medicare Eligible Retired Participant    .    "Medicare Eligible Retired Participant" shall mean a Retired Participant who is eligible for Medicare due to reaching the eligible age for Medicare.

ARTICLE 3   ELIGIBILITY

3.1

Active Participants  .    Each Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in this Plan along with his/her Dependent(s) beginning on the effective date of the employee becoming an Eligible Employee.

Upon becoming an Eligible Employee, he/she shall have 90 days to elect to participate in this Plan.  In order to continue participation, the Active Participant must pay all applicable Monthly Contributions.  If an Active Employee Participant terminates participation in this Plan at any time for any reason, that Participant and his/her Dependent(s) shall be ineligible to participate in the Plan at any time in the future.

3.2

Retired Participants   .   Provisions of this Plan will continue in effect during Retirement for each Retired Employee Participant and his/her Dependent(s) with respect to any Eligible Employee who became a Participant before January 1, 1999.  Neither an Eligible Employee who became a Participant after December 31, 1998 nor his/her Dependent(s) shall be eligible for participation hereunder on or after such Participant's Retirement. Coverage for Retired Participants shall be subject to the payment of all applicable Monthly Contributions, as governed by Article 7.  The provisions of this Plan related to Retired Participants, including the level of Covered Benefits and the applicable Monthly Premiums, shall begin to apply on the first day of the month following the month in which the Active Employee Participant Retires.  If a Retired Employee Participant terminates participation at any time for any reason, participation of that Retired Employee participant and his/her Dependent(s) may not be reinstated for any reason.

3.3

Requirement to Enroll and Participate in Basic Plans and Medicare   .   Notwithstanding any provision in this plan to the contrary, as a condition to participation in the Plan, each Participant must be enrolled in, paying for, and participating in (i) the Basic Plans if such Participant is eligible for coverage under the terms of the Basic Plans, or, if applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage, and (ii) all parts of Medicare for which such Participant is eligible and for which Medicare would be primary if enrolled therein, except for Medicare Part D relating to prescription drug coverage.

Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, an individual who first becomes an Eligible Employee in the middle of a Plan Year and who is enrolled in AT T sponsored group health plans other than the Basic Plans, will be allowed to participate in the Plan for the remainder of the Plan Year along with his/her Dependent(s) who are enrolled in such other AT T sponsored health plans, as if they were participating in the Basic Plans.  At the next group enrollment opportunity for the Basic Plans, the Active Employee Participant and his/her Dependent(s) must enroll in the Basic Plans to continue participation in this Plan.

ARTICLE 4   BENEFITS

4.1

Covered Benefits   . Subject to the limitations in this  Plan (including but not limited to the loyalty conditions set forth in Article 8 below) , this Plan provides the benefits described below.  Monthly Contributions for participation in this Plan, the Basic Plans, Medicare, or any other health plan are not considered "services", and are therefore are not Covered Benefits under this Plan. 

(a)

Active Participants (Medical Services and Preventive Care) - 

Medical Services - After the Annual Deductible has been met, 100% payment of Covered Health Services not paid under the AT T Medical Plan (or AT T International Health Plan with respect to Officers serving in expatriate positions with the Company) or Medicare minus the amount of Coinsurance, until the Active Participant reaches the Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum, at which time coverage is 100% of Covered Health Services not paid under the AT T Medical Plan (or AT T International Health Plan with respect to Officers serving in expatriate positions with the Company) .

Preventive Care - Preventive Care, whether received as a "Network/ONA" service or "Non-Network" service, as defined in the AT T Medical Plan, is covered at 100%, not subject to the Annual Deductible or Coinsurance.

(b)

Active Participants (Dental Services and Vision Services)   -

100% payment, through reimbursement or otherwise, of all Dental Services and Vision Services not paid under the Active Participant's (i) Basic Plans or (ii) Medicare, provided expenses for such services would qualify as deductible medical expenses for federal income tax purposes, whether deducted or not.

(c)

Retired Participants    

100% payment, through reimbursement or otherwise, of all Medical, Dental, Vision and Preventive services not paid under the Retired Participant's (i) Basic Plans or Substitute Basic Coverage, if either is applicable or (ii) Medicare, provided expenses for such services would qualify as deductible medical expenses for federal income tax purposes, whether deducted or not.

4.2

Covered Benefit Limits  .    RESERVED  

4.3

Priority of Paying Covered Claims  .  Claims for benefits will be applied against the various health plans, as applicable, and coordinated with Medicare in the following order:

(1) 
 Medicare, to the extent the Participant is eligible therefore and such claim is actually paid by Medicare, 

(2) 
 Basic Plans, if applicable, 

(3) 
 CarePlus, if elected, 

(4) 
 Long Term Care Plan, if elected, 

4.4

Substitute Basic Coverage  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if a Retired Employee Participant, other than a Medicare Eligible Retired Participant, is eligible for participation under this Plan during Retirement, but not eligible to participate under the Basic Plans, the Plan shall provide medical, dental, and vision benefits for the Retired Employee Participant and his/her Dependent(s) substantially equivalent to the benefits under the Basic Plans through an insured product (hereinafter, "Substitute Basic Coverage").  Eligibility for Substitute Basic Coverage is conditioned upon the Retired Participant's payment of contributions in the same amount that a similarly situated retired Basic Plan participant is required to pay under the Basic Plans. Such Substitute Basic Coverage shall constitute such Retired Participant's Basic Plans for all purposes under this Plan.  The costs of Substitute Basic Coverage (except for the required monthly contributions referenced in this paragraph) shall be borne by AT T, and the costs of Substitute Basic Coverage shall not be included in the determination of any Retired Participant's annual Plan contribution amount as provided in Article 7.  In addition, certain other Retired Employee Participants participate in the "Separation Medical Plan" rather than the Basic Plans.  References to Substitute Basic Coverage throughout this Plan shall be deemed to include the Separation Medical Plan.  The Plan Administrator maintains records governing the names of those Retired Employee Participants who have Substitute Basic Coverage or Separation Medical Plan coverage.

ARTICLE 5   TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION

5.1

Termination of Participation   .   Participation will cease on the last day of the month in which one of the following conditions occurs:

(1)

The Participant, other than a Medicare Eligible Retired Participant, is no longer a participant in the Basic Plans or Substitute Basic Coverage, in which case participation ceases for such Participant;

(2)

A Participant ceases to meet the definition of a Dependent (as set forth in Section 2.14 of this Plan) for any reason, in which case participation ceases for such Participant;

(3)

A Participant eligible to enroll in Medicare is no longer a participant in all parts of Medicare for which such Participant is eligible to enroll and for which Medicare would be primary if enrolled therein, except for Medicare Part D relating to prescription drug coverage, in which case participation ceases for such Participant;

(4)

The Active Employee Participant's termination of employment for reasons other than Death, Disability, or Retirement by an individual who meets the applicable requirements of Section 3.2 in order to qualify for Plan benefits in Retirement, in which case participation ceases for the Participant and his/her Dependent(s);

(5)

The demotion or designation of an Active Employee Participant so as to no longer be eligible to participate in the Plan, in which case participation ceases for the Participant and his/her Dependent(s);

(6)

The Active Employee Participant (or Retired Employee Participant) participates in an activity that constitutes engaging in competitive activity with AT T or engaging in conduct disloyal to AT T under Article 8, in which case participation ceases for the Active Employee Participant (or Retired Employee Participant) and his/her Dependent(s); or

(7)

Discontinuance of the Plan by AT T, or, with respect to a Subsidiary's Active Employee Participants (or Retired Employee Participants), such Subsidiary's failure to make the benefits hereunder available to Active Employee Participants employed by it (or its Retired Employee Participants).

5.2

Dependents Failure to Participate in Basic Plans  .  If a Dependent, other than a Medicare Eligible Retired Participant, ceases participation under a Basic Plan or, if applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage, such Dependent's participation under this Plan will cease with the same effective date.

5.3

Death  .  In the event of the Active Employee Participant's (or Retired Employee's Participant's) death, his  Dependents may continue participation in this Plan as follows:

(1) 
 In the event of the death of a Retired Employee Participant such Retired Employee Participant's Dependents may continue participation in this Plan, eligible for the Covered Benefits described in Section 4.1(c) of the Plan, for so long as such Dependents are participating in the Basic Plans (or, if applicable, Substitute Basic Coverage) or with respect to a Dependent who is a Medicare Eligible Retired Participant, for so long as such Dependent would have otherwise been eligible for participation under the terms of  the Prior Basic Plan and are paying any applicable contributions for this Plan as provided in Article 7. If a surviving spouse of such deceased Active Employee Participant otherwise eligible for participation in the Plan remarries, his/her participation and the participation of any otherwise eligible Dependents will cease with the effective date of his/ her marriage. 

(2) 
 In the event of an in-service death of an Active Employee Participant eligible to participate in the Plan in Retirement as provided under Article 3.2, who was Retirement eligible, within the meaning of Section 2.30, at the time of death, such Active Employee Participant's surviving Dependents may continue participation in this Plan, eligible for the Covered Benefits described in Section 4.1(a) and (b),  for so long as such Dependents are participating in the Basic Plans  (or, if applicable Substitute Basic Coverage) or with respect to a Dependent who is a Medicare Eligible Retired Participant, for so long as such Dependent would have otherwise been eligible for participation under the terms of the Prior Basic Plan and are paying any applicable contributions for this Plan as provided in Article 7.  If a surviving spouse of such deceased Active Employee Participant otherwise eligible for participation in the Plan remarries, his/her participation and the participation of any otherwise eligible Dependents will cease with the effective date of his/ her marriage. 

(3) 
 In the event of (i) an in-service death of an Active Employee Participant not eligible to participate in the Plan in Retirement as provided in Article 3.2 or (ii) an in-service death of an Active Employee Participant eligible to participate in the Plan in Retirement as provided in Article 3.2 but the individual was not Retirement eligible, within the meaning of Section 2.30, at the time of death, such Active Employee Participant's Dependent(s) may continue participation in this Plan, eligible for the Covered Benefits described in Sections 4.1(a) and (b), for a 36-month period commencing the month following the month in which such Active Employee Participant dies as long as such Dependent(s) are participating in the Basic Plans (or with respect to a Dependent who is a Medicare Eligible Retired Participant, for so long as such Dependent would have otherwise been eligible for participation under the terms of the Prior Basic Plan) and subject to the payment of Active Participant Contributions for the first 12 months and payment of Active COBRA Contributions for the remaining 24 months, as provided by Articles 7 and 10.1.  If the Active Employee Participant's Dependent(s) are eligible for COBRA, they will automatically be enrolled in COBRA so that there is no lapse in coverage, and this 36-month coverage will be integrated and run concurrently with COBRA coverage. 

ARTICLE 6   DISABILITY

6.1

Disability  .  With respect to any Active Employee Participant who commences receipt of short term or long term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan, participation under this Plan will be as follows:

(1) 
 The Participant will continue to participate in this Plan, eligible for the Covered Benefits described in Section 4.1(a) and (b), for as long as he/she receives short term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan and pays the applicable contributions for this Plan as provided by Article 7. 

(2) 
 An Active Employee Participant not eligible to participate in the Plan in Retirement as provided in Article 3.2 who commences long term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan or an Active Employee Participant eligible to participate in the Plan in Retirement as provided in Article 3.2 but who is not Retirement eligible, within the meaning of Section 2.30, at the time long term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan commence, will cease participation in this Plan (along with his/her Dependents) effective as of the last day of the calendar month in which such long term disability benefits commence, unless such benefits commence on the first day of a calendar month, in which case participation in this Plan shall cease effective as of the last day of the prior month. 

(3) 
 An Active Employee Participant eligible to participate in the Plan in Retirement as provided in Article 3.2 ,who is Retirement eligible, within the meaning of Section 2.30, at the time long term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan commence, will be eligible to continue participation in this Plan on the same terms and conditions that participation would be available to such Participant in Retirement, subject to the payment of applicable contributions for this Plan as provided by Article 7, regardless of his/her continued receipt of long term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan. 

ARTICLE 7   COSTS

7.1

Provision of Benefits under the Plan  .  Except as provided below in this Article 7 with respect to required Monthly Contributions or with respect to any required Coinsurance, the benefits available to Participants under this Plan shall be provided through an insurance policy maintained by AT T.

7.2

Active Participant Contributions  .  An Active Participant electing to participate in the Plan will pay Monthly Contributions to participate in the Plan while in active service, while on Leave of Absence or while receiving short term disability benefits under the Officer Disability Plan. The Monthly Contribution for participation may change annually, effective at the beginning of each Plan Year.  Contributions to be made by Active Participants electing to participate in the Plan shall be set annually by the SEVP-HR, determined in the SEVP-HR's sole and absolute discretion.  The SEVP-HR may adopt tiered rates for similarly situated groups of Participants based on factors such as the number of Dependents covered or Medicare eligibility.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, required Monthly Contributions for Executive Officers shall be approved by the Committee.

7.3

Retired Participant Contributions   .  Retired Participants who elect to participate will pay Monthly Contributions to participate in the Plan. The Monthly Contribution for participation may change annually, effective at the beginning of each Plan Year.   Contributions to be made by Retired Participants who elect to participate shall be set annually by the SEVP-HR (in his/her sole and absolute discretion), to the extent their contributions have not previously been provided for in a separate agreement.

7.4

Survivor Contributions.      Upon the death of a Participant, the Participant's Dependents shall be required to pay Monthly Contributions to participate in the Plan.  The Monthly Contributions shall  be set annually by the SEVP-HR, in the SEVP-HR's sole and absolute discretion.   Any changes to the Monthly Contributions shall be effective at the beginning of each Plan Year.

7.5

Contributions for Participants on Disability  .  Participants continuing benefits while on Disability shall be required to pay Monthly Contributions to participate in the Plan.  The Monthly Contributions shall  be set annually by the SEVP-HR, determined in the SEVP-HR's sole and absolute discretion.   Any changes to the Monthly Contributions shall be effective at the beginning of each Plan Year.

ARTICLE 8   LOYALTY CONDITIONS

8.1

Participants acknowledge that no coverage and benefits would be provided under this Plan on and after January 1, 2010 but for the loyalty conditions and covenants set forth in this Article, and that the conditions and covenants herein are a material inducement to AT T's willingness to sponsor the Plan and to offer Plan coverage and benefits for the Participants on or after January 1, 2010.  Accordingly, as a condition of receiving coverage and any Plan benefits on or after January 1, 2010, each Participant is deemed to agree that he shall not, without obtaining the written consent of the Plan Administrator in advance, participate in activities that constitute engaging in competition with AT T or engaging in conduct disloyal to AT T, as those terms are defined in this Section.  Further and notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, all coverage and benefits under this Plan on and after January 1, 2010 with respect to a Participant and his or her Dependents shall be subject in their entirety to the enforcement provisions of this Section if the Participant, without the Plan Administrator's consent, participates in an activity that constitutes engaging in competition with AT T or engaging in conduct disloyal to AT T, as defined below.  The provisions of this Article 8 as in effect immediately before such date shall be applicable to Participants who retire before January 1, 2010.

8.2

Definitions  .  For purposes of this Article and of the Plan generally

(1)

an "Employer Business" shall mean AT T, any Subsidiary, or any business in which AT T or a Subsidiary or an affiliated company of AT T has a substantial ownership or joint venture interest;

(2)

"engaging in competition with AT T" shall mean, while employed by an Employer Business or within two (2) years after the Participant's termination of employment, engaging by the Participant in any business or activity in all or any portion of the same geographical market where the same or substantially similar business or activity is being carried on by an Employer Business.  "Engaging in competition with AT T" shall not include owning a nonsubstantial publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that competes with an Employer Business.  "Engaging in competition with AT T" shall include representing or providing consulting services to, or being an employee or director of, any person or entity that is engaged in competition with any Employer Business or that takes a position adverse to any Employer Business.

(3)

"engaging in conduct disloyal to AT T" means, while employed by an Employer Business or within two  (2) years after the Participant's termination of employment, (i) soliciting for employment or hire, whether as an employee or as an independent contractor, for any business in competition with an Employer Business, any person employed by AT T or its affiliates during the one (1)  year prior to the termination of the Participant's employment, whether or not acceptance of such position would constitute a breach of such person's contractual obligations to AT T and its affiliates; (ii) soliciting, encouraging, or inducing any vendor or supplier with which Participant had business contact on behalf of any Employer Business during the two (2) years prior to the termination of the Participant's employment, for any reason to terminate, discontinue,

renegotiate, reduce, or otherwise cease or modify its relationship with AT T or its affiliate; or (iii) soliciting, encouraging, or inducing any customer or active prospective customer with whom Participant had business contact, whether in person or by other media, on behalf of any Employer Business during the two (2) years prior to the termination of Participant's employment for any reason ("Customer"), to terminate, discontinue, renegotiate, reduce, or otherwise cease or modify its relationship with any Employer Business, or to purchase competing goods or services from a business competing with any Employer Business, or accepting or servicing business from such Customer on behalf of himself or any other business.  "Engaging in conduct disloyal to AT T" also means, disclosing Confidential Information to any third party or using Confidential Information, other than for an Employer Business, or failing to return any Confidential Information to the Employer Business following termination of employment.

(4)

"Confidential Information" shall mean all information belonging to, or otherwise relating to, an Employer Business, which is not generally known, regardless of the manner in which it is stored or conveyed to the Participant, and which the Employer Business has taken reasonable measures under the circumstances to protect from unauthorized use or disclosure.  Confidential Information includes trade secrets as well as other proprietary knowledge, information, know-how, and non-public intellectual property rights, including unpublished or pending patent applications and all related patent rights, formulae, processes, discoveries, improvements, ideas, conceptions, compilations of data, and data, whether or not patentable or copyrightable and whether or not it has been conceived, originated, discovered, or developed in whole or in part by the Participant.  For example, Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, information concerning the Employer Business' business plans, budgets, operations, products, strategies, marketing, sales, inventions, designs, costs, legal strategies, finances, employees, customers, prospective customers, licensees, or licensors; information received from third parties under confidential conditions; or other valuable financial, commercial, business, technical or marketing information concerning the Employer Business, or any of the products or services made, developed or sold by the Employer Business.  Confidential Information does not include information that (i) was generally known to the public at the time of disclosure; (ii) was lawfully received by the Participant from a third party; (iii) was known to the Participant prior to receipt from the Employer Business; or (iv) was independently developed by the Participant or independent third parties; in each of the foregoing circumstances, this exception applies only if such public knowledge or possession by an independent third party was without breach by the Participant or any third party of any obligation of confidentiality or non-use, including but not limited to the obligations and restrictions set forth in this Plan.

8.3

Forfeiture of Benefits  .  Subject to the provisions of Section 1001(5) of the Affordable Care Act, coverage and benefits shall be forfeited and shall not be provided under this Plan for any period as to which the Plan Administrator determines that, within the time period and without the written consent specified, Participant has been either engaging in competition with AT T or engaging in conduct disloyal to AT T.

8.4

Equitable Relief    .    The parties recognize that any Participant's breach of any of the covenants in this Article 8 will cause irreparable injury to AT T, will represent a failure of the consideration under which AT T (in its capacity as creator and sponsor of the Plan) agreed to provide the Participant with the opportunity to receive Plan coverage and benefits, and that monetary damages would not provide AT T with an adequate or complete remedy that would warrant AT T's continued sponsorship of the Plan and payment of Plan benefits for all Participants.  Accordingly, in the event of a Participant's actual or threatened breach of the covenants in this Article, the Plan Administrator, in addition to all other rights and acting as a fiduciary under ERISA on behalf of all Participants, shall have a fiduciary duty (in order to assure that AT T receives fair and promised consideration for its continued Plan sponsorship and funding) to seek an injunction restraining the Participant from breaching the covenants in this Article 8.  In addition, AT T shall pay for any Plan expenses that the Plan Administrator incurs hereunder, and shall be entitled to recover from the Participant its reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in obtaining such injunctive remedies.  To enforce its repayment rights with respect to a Participant, the Plan shall have a first priority, equitable lien on all Plan benefits provided to or for the Participant and his or her Dependents.  In the event the Plan Administrator succeeds in enforcing the terms of this Article through a written settlement with the Participant or a court order granting an injunction hereunder, the Participant shall be entitled to collect Plan benefits collect Plan benefits prospectively, if the Participant is otherwise entitled to such benefits, net of any fees and costs assessed pursuant hereto (which fees and costs shall be paid to AT T as a repayment on behalf of the Participant), provided that the Participant complies with said settlement or injunction.

8.5

Uniform Enforcement  .  In recognition of AT T's need for nationally uniform standards for the Plan administration, it is an absolute condition in consideration of any Participant's accrual or receipt of benefits under the Plan after January 1, 2010 that each and all of the following conditions apply to all Participants and to any benefits that are paid or are payable under the Plan:

(1)

ERISA shall control all issues and controversies hereunder, and the Committee shall serve for purposes hereof as a "fiduciary" of the Plan, and as its "named fiduciary" within the meaning of ERISA.

(2)

All litigation between the parties relating to this Article shall occur in federal court, which shall have exclusive jurisdiction, any such litigation shall be held in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, and the only remedies available with respect to the Plan shall be those provided under ERISA.

(3)

If the Plan Administrator determines in its sole discretion either (I) that AT T or its affiliate that employed the Participant terminated the Participant's employment for cause, or (II) that equitable relief enforcing the Participant's covenants under this Article 8 is either not reasonably available, not ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction, or circumvented because the Participant has sued in state court, or has otherwise sought remedies not available under ERISA, then in any and all of such instances the Participant shall not be entitled to collect any Plan benefits, and if any Plan benefits have been paid to the, the Participant shall immediately repay all Plan benefits to the Plan (with such repayments being used within such year for increased benefits for other Participants in any manner determined in the Plan Administrator's discretion) upon written demand from the Plan Administrator.  Furthermore, the Participant shall hold AT T and its affiliates harmless from any loss, expense, or damage that may arise from any of the conduct described in clauses (I) and (II) hereof.

ARTICLE 9   MISCELLANEOUS

9.1

Administration  .  The Plan Administrator is the named fiduciary of the Plan and has the power and duty to do all things necessary to carry out the terms of the Plan.  The Plan Administrator has the sole and absolute discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan, to make findings of fact, to determine the rights and status of Participants and other under the Plan, to determine which expenses and benefits qualify as Covered Health Services or Covered Benefits, to make all benefit determinations under the Plan, to decide disputes under the Plan and to delegate all or a part of this discretion to third parties and insurers.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, such interpretations, findings, determinations and decisions shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons for all purposes of the Plan.  The Plan Administrator may delegate any or all of its authority and responsibility under the Plan to other individuals, committees, third party administrators, claims administrators or insurers for any purpose, including, but not limited to the processing of benefits and claims related thereto.  In carrying out these functions, these individuals or entities have been delegated responsibility and discretion for interpreting the provisions of the Plan, making findings of fact, determining the rights and status of Participants and others under the Plan, and deciding disputes under the Plan and such interpretations, findings, determinations and decisions shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons for all purposes of the Plan.

9.2

Amendments and Termination  .  This Plan may be modified or terminated at any time in accordance with the provisions of AT T's Schedule of Authorizations.

9.3

Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act of 1996  .  To the extent this Plan provides benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth, the Plan will cover the minimum length of stay required for deliveries (i.e., a 48-hour hospital stay after a vaginal delivery or a 96-hour stay following a delivery by Cesarean section.)  The mother's or newborn's attending physician, after consulting with the mother, may discharge the mother or her newborn earlier than the minimum length of stay otherwise required by law.  Such coverage shall be subject to all other provisions of this Plan.

9.4

Women's Health and Cancer Rights Act of 1998  .  To the extent this Plan provides benefits for mastectomies, it will provide, for an individual who is receiving benefits in connection with a mastectomy and who elects breast reconstruction in connection with such mastectomy, coverage for reconstruction on the breast on which the mastectomy was performed, surgery and reconstruction on the other breast to give a symmetrical appearance, and prosthesis and coverage for physical complications of all stages of the mastectomy, including lymphedemas.  Such coverage shall be subject to all other provisions of this Plan.

9.5

Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008  .   To the extent this Plan provides mental health benefits or substance use disorder benefits it will not place annual or lifetime maximums for such benefits that are lower than the annual and lifetime maximums for physical health benefits.  In addition, the financial requirements (e.g., deductibles and co-payments) and treatment limitations (e.g., number of visits or days of coverage) that apply to mental health benefits or substance use disorder benefits will not be more restrictive than the predominant financial requirements or treatment limitations that apply to substantially all medical/surgical benefits; mental health benefits and substance use disorder benefits will not be subject to any separate cost sharing requirements or treatment limitations that only apply to such benefits; if the Plan provides for out of network medical/surgical or substance use disorder benefits, it will provide for out of network mental health and substance use disorder benefits and standards for medical necessity determinations and reasons for any denial of benefits relating to mental health benefits and substance use disorder benefits will be made available upon request to plan participants.  Such coverage shall be subject to all other provisions of this Plan.

9.6

Continuation of Coverage During Family or Medical Leave  .  During any period which an Active Employee Participant is on a family or medical leave as defined in the Family or Medical Leave Act, any benefit elections in force for such Participant shall remain in effect.  While the Participant is on paid leave, contributions shall continue.  If the Participant is on an unpaid leave, the Participant may elect to prepay required contributions on a pre-tax basis before the commencement of such unpaid leave.  Alternatively, the Participant may elect to make such payments on an after-tax basis monthly in accordance with an arrangement that the Plan Administrator shall provide.  If coverage is not continued during the entire period of the family or medical leave because the Participant declines to pay the premium, the coverage must be reinstated upon reemployment with no exclusions or waiting periods, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary. If the Participant does not return to work upon completion of the leave, the Participant must pay the full cost of any health care coverage that was continued on his/her behalf during the leave.  These rules apply to the COBRA eligible programs.

9.7

Rights While on Military Leave  .  Pursuant to the provisions of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, an Active Employee Participant on military leave will be considered to be on a Leave of Absence and will be entitled during the leave to the health and welfare benefits that would be made available to other similarly situated employees if they were on a Leave of Absence.  This entitlement will end if the individual provides written notice of intent not to return to work following the completion of the military leave.  The individual shall have the right to continue his/her coverage, including any Dependent coverage, for the lesser of the length of the leave or 18

months.  If the military leave is for a period of 31 days or more, the individual may be required to pay 102 percent of the total premium (determined in the same manner as a COBRA continuation coverage premium).  If coverage is not continued during the entire period of the military leave because the individual declines to pay the premium or the leave extends beyond 18 months, the coverage must be reinstated upon reemployment with no pre-existing condition exclusions (other than for service-related illnesses or injuries) or waiting periods (other than those applicable to all Eligible Employees).

9.8

Qualified Medical Child Support Orders  .  The Plan will comply with any Qualified Medical Child Support Order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or administrative body that requires the Plan to provide medical coverage to a Dependent child of an Active Employee or Retired Employee Participant.  The Plan Administrator will establish reasonable procedures for determining whether a court order or administrative decree requiring medical coverage for a Dependent child meets the requirements for a Qualified Medical Child Support Order.  The cost of coverage or any additional cost of such coverage, if any, shall be borne by the Participant.

9.9

Right of Recovery   .   If the Plan has made an erroneous or excess payment to any Participant, the Plan Administrator shall be entitled to recover such excess from the individual or entity to whom such payments were made.  The recovery of such overpayment may be made by offsetting the amount of any other benefit or amount payable by the amount of the overpayment under the Plan.

ARTICLE 10   COBRA

10.1

Continuation of Coverage Under COBRA  .  Participants shall have all COBRA continuation rights required by federal law and all conversion rights.  COBRA continuation coverage shall be continued as provided in this Article 10.

10.2

COBRA Continuation Coverage for Terminated Participants  .  A covered Active Employee Participant may elect COBRA continuation coverage, at his/her own expense, if his participation under this Plan would terminate as a result of one of the following Qualifying Events: an Employee's termination of employment or reduction of hours with an Employer.

10.3

COBRA Continuation Coverage for Dependents  .  A Qualified Dependent may elect COBRA continuation coverage, at his/her own expense, if his/her participation under this Plan would terminate as a result of a Qualifying Event.

10.4

Period of Continuation Coverage for Covered Participants   .   A covered Active Employee Participant who qualifies for COBRA continuation coverage as a result of a Participant's termination of employment or reduction in hours of employment described in Subsection 10.2 may elect COBRA continuation coverage for up to 18 months measured from the date of the Qualifying Event.

Coverage under this Subsection 10.4 may not continue beyond the:  

(1)

date on which the Active Employee Participant's Employer ceases to maintain this Plan;  

(2)

last day of the month for which premium payments have been made with respect to this Plan, if the individual fails to make premium payments on time, in accordance with Subsection 10.6;  

(3)

date the covered Active Employee Participant becomes entitled to Medicare; or  

(4)

date the covered Participant is no longer subject to a pre-existing condition exclusion under the Participant's other coverage or new employer plan for the type of coverage available under the COBRA eligible program for which the COBRA election was made.

10.5

Period of COBRA Continuation Coverage for Dependents  .  If a Qualified Dependent elects COBRA continuation coverage under a COBRA eligible program as a result of the an Active Employee Participant's termination of employment as described in Subsection 10.2, continuation coverage may be continued for up to 18 months measured from the date of the Qualifying Event.  COBRA continuation coverage for all other Qualifying Events may continue for up to 36 months.

Continuation coverage under this Subsection 10.5 with respect to a COBRA eligible program may not continue beyond the date:  

(1)

on which premium payments have not been made, in accordance with Subsection 10.6 below;  

(2)

the Qualified Dependent  becomes entitled to Medicare;  

(3)

on which the Employer ceases to maintain this Plan; or  

(4)

the Qualified Dependent is no longer subject to a pre-existing condition exclusion under the Participant's other coverage or new employer plan for the type of coverage available under this Plan.

10.6

Contribution Requirements for COBRA Continuation Coverage  .  Covered Participants and Qualified Dependents who elect COBRA continuation coverage as a result of a Qualifying Event will be required to pay continuation coverage payments.  Continuation coverage payments are the payments required for COBRA continuation coverage that is an amount equal to a reasonable estimate of the cost to this Plan of providing coverage for all covered Participants at the time of the Qualifying Event plus a 2% administrative expense.  In the case of a disabled individual who receives an additional 11-month extended coverage under COBRA, the Employer may assess up to 150% of the cost for this extended coverage period.  Such cost shall be determined on an actuarial basis and take into account such factors as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe in regulations.

Covered Participants and Qualified Dependents must make the continuation coverage payment prior to the first day of the month in which such coverage will take effect.  However, a covered Participant or Qualified Dependent has 45 days from the date of an affirmative election to pay the continuation coverage payment for the first month's payment and the cost for the period between the date medical coverage would otherwise have terminated due to the Qualifying Event and the date the covered Participant and/or Qualified Dependent actually elects COBRA continuation coverage.

The covered Participant and/or Qualified Dependent shall have a 30-day grace period to make the continuation coverage payments due thereafter.  Continuation coverage payments must be postmarked on or before the completion of the 30-day grace period.  If continuation coverage payments are not made on a timely basis, COBRA continuation coverage will terminate as of the last day of the month for which timely premiums were made.  The 30-day grace period shall not apply to the 45-day period for the first month's payment of COBRA premiums as set out in the section above.

If payment is received that is significantly less than the required continuation coverage payment, then continuation coverage will terminate as of the last day of the month for which premiums were paid.  A payment is considered significantly less than the amount due if it is greater than the lesser of $50 or 10% of the required continuation coverage payment.  Upon receipt of a continuation coverage payment that is insignificantly less than the required amount, the Plan Administrator must notify the covered Participant or Qualified Dependent of the amount of the shortfall and provide them with an additional 30-day grace period from the date of the notice for this payment only.

10.7

Limitation on Participant's Rights to COBRA Continuation Coverage  .

(1)

If a Qualified Dependent loses, or will lose medical coverage under this Plan as a result of divorce, legal separation, entitlement to Medicare, or ceasing to be a Dependent, such Qualified Dependent is responsible for notifying the Plan Administrator in writing within 60 days of the Qualifying Event.  Failure to make timely notification will terminate the Qualified Dependent's rights to COBRA continuation coverage under this Article.  

(2)

A Participant must complete and return the required enrollment materials within 60 days from the later of (a) the date of loss of coverage, or (b) the date the Plan Administrator sends notice of eligibility for COBRA continuation coverage.  Failure to enroll for COBRA continuation coverage during this 60-day period will terminate all rights to COBRA continuation coverage under this Article.  An affirmative election of COBRA continuation coverage by a Participant or his/her spouse shall be deemed to be an election for that Participant's Dependent(s) who would otherwise lose coverage under the Plan.

10.8

Subsequent Qualifying Event  .  If a second Qualifying Event occurs during an 18-month extension explained above, coverage may be continued for a maximum of 36 months from the date of the first Qualifying Event.  In the event the Dependent loses coverage due to a Qualifying Event and after such date the Participant becomes entitled to Medicare, the Dependent shall have available up to 36 months of coverage measured from the date of the Qualifying Event that causes the loss of coverage.  If the Participant was entitled to Medicare prior to the Qualifying Event, the Dependent shall have up to 36 months of coverage measured from the date of entitlement to Medicare.

10.9

Extension of COBRA Continuation Period for Disabled Individuals  .  The period of continuation shall be extended to 29 months in total (measured from the date of the Qualifying Event) in the event the individual is disabled as determined by the Social Security laws within 60 days of the Qualifying Event.  The individual must provide evidence to the Plan Administrator of such Social Security determination prior to the earlier of 60 days after the date of the Social Security determination, or the expiration of the initial 18 months of COBRA continuation coverage.  In such event, the Employer may charge the individual up to 150% of the COBRA cost of the coverage.

ARTICLE 11   PRIVACY OF MEDICAL INFORMATION

11.1

Definitions  .  For purposes of this Article 11, the following defined terms shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in this subsection:  

(1)                "Business Associate" shall have the meaning assigned to such phrase at 45 C.F.R.   160.103; 

(2)                "Health Care Operations" shall have the meaning assigned to such phrase at 45 C.F.R.   164.501; 

(3)                "HIPAA" shall mean Parts 160 ("General Administrative Requirements") and 164 ("Security and Privacy") of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations as such parts are amended from time to time; 

(4)                "Payment" shall have the meaning assigned to such phrase at 45 C.F.R   160.103; 

(5)                "Protected Health Information" or "PHI" shall have the meaning assigned to such phrase at 45 C.F.R.   160.103; and 

(6)                "Treatment" shall have the meaning assigned to such phrase at 45 C.F.R.   164.501. 

11.2

Privacy Provisions Relating to Protected Health Information ("PHI")  .  The Plan and its Business Associates shall use and disclose PHI to the extent permitted by, and in accordance with, HIPAA, for purposes of providing benefits under the Plan and for purposes of administering the plan, including, by way of illustration and not by way of limitation, for purposes of Treatment, Payment, and Health Care Operations.  

11.3

Disclosure of De-Identified or Summary Health Information  .  The HIPAA Plan, or, with respect to the HIPAA Plan, a health insurance issuer, may disclose summary health information (as that phrase is defined at 45 C.F.R.   160.5049a))  to the Plan Sponsor of the HIPAA Plan (and its affiliates) if such entity requests such information for the purpose of:

(1)                Obtaining premium bids from health plans for providing health 

insurance coverage under the HIPAA Plan;

(2)                Modifying, amending or terminating the group health benefits 

under the HIPAA Plan. 

In addition, the HIPAA Plan or a health insurance insurer with respect to the HIPAA Plan may disclose to the Plan Sponsor of the HIPAA Plan (or its affiliates) information on whether an individual is participating in the group health benefits provided by the HIPAA Plan or is enrolled in, or has ceased enrollment with health insurance offered by the HIPAA Plan.

11.4

The HIPAA Plan Will Use and Disclose PHI as Required by Law    
                or as Permitted by the Authorization of the Participant or Beneficiary  .

Upon submission of an authorization signed by a Participant, beneficiary, subscriber or personal representative that meets HIPAA requirements, the HIPAA Plan will disclose PHI.

In addition, PHI will be disclosed to the extent permitted or required by law, without the submission of an authorization form.

11.5

Disclosure of PHI to the Plan Sponsor   .   The HIPAA Plan will disclose information to the Plan Sponsor only upon certification from the Plan Sponsor that the HIPAA Plan documents have been amended to incorporate the assurances provided below.

The Plan Sponsor agrees to:  

(1) 
 not use or further disclose PHI other than as permitted or required by the HIPAA Plan document or as required by law; 

(2) 
 ensure that any affiliates or agents, including a subcontractor, to whom the Plan Sponsor provides PHI received from the HIPAA Plan, agrees to the same restrictions and conditions that apply to the Plan Sponsor with respect to such PHI; 

(3) 
 not use or disclose PHI for employment-related actions and decisions unless authorized by the individual to whom the PHI relates; 

(4) 
 not use or disclose PHI in connection with any other benefits or employee benefit plan of the Plan Sponsor or its affiliates unless permitted by the Plan or authorized by an individual to whom the PHI relates; 

(5) 
 report to the Plan any PHI use or disclosure that is inconsistent with the uses or disclosures provided for of which it becomes aware; 

(6) 
 make PHI available to an individual in accordance with HIPAA's access rules; 

(7) 
 make PHI available for amendment and incorporate any amendments to PHI in accordance with HIPAA; 

(8)                make available the information required to provide an accounting 

of disclosures;

(9) 
 make internal practices, books and records relating to the use and disclosure of PHI received from the HIPAA Plan available to the Secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Resources for purposes of determining the Plan's compliance with HIPAA; and 

(10) 
 if feasible, return or destroy all PHI received from the HIPAA Plan that the Plan Sponsor still maintains in any form, and retain no copies of such PHI when no longer needed for the purpose for which disclosure was made (or if return or destruction is not feasible, limit further uses and disclosures to those purposes that make the return or destruction infeasible). 

11.6

Separation Between the Plan Sponsor and the HIPAA Plan   .   In accordance with HIPAA, only the following employees and Business Associate personnel shall be given access to PHI:

(1) 
 employees of the AT T Benefits and/or AT T Executive Compensation organizations responsible for administering group health plan benefits under the HIPAA Plan, including those employees whose functions in the regular course of business include Payment, Health Care Operations or other matters pertaining to the health care programs under a HIPAA Plan; 

(2) 
 employees who supervise the work of the employees described in (1), above; 

(3) 
 support personnel, including other employees outside of the AT T Benefits or AT T Executive Compensation organizations whose duties require them to rule on health plan-related appeals or perform functions concerning the HIPAA Plan; 

(4) 
 investigatory personnel to the limited extent that such PHI is necessary to conduct investigations of possible fraud; 

(5) 
 outside and in-house legal counsel providing counsel to the HIPAA Plan; 

(6) 
 consultants providing advice concerning the administration of the HIPAA Plan; and 

(7) 
 the employees of Business Associates charged with providing services to the HIPAA Plan. 

The persons identified above shall have access to and use PHI to the extent that such access and use is necessary for the administration of group health benefits under a HIPAA Plan.  If these persons do not comply with this Plan document, the Plan Sponsor shall provide a mechanism for resolving issues of noncompliance, including disciplinary sanctions.

Enforcement of this Article 11 shall be as provided for by HIPAA. In particular, participants and beneficiaries are not authorized to sue with regard to purported breaches of this Article 11 except as explicitly permitted by HIPAA.

ARTICLE 12                                            CLAIM AND APPEAL PROCESS 

12.1                                Claims for Benefits under the Plan  .   See Appendix B. 

12.2                                Claims Related to Basic Eligibility for Coverage under the Plan and Claims Related to the Article 8 Loyalty Conditions  . 

(  a)                Claims.  A person who believes that he or she is being denied a benefit to which he or she is entitled under this Plan (hereinafter referred to as a "Claimant") based on a claim for basic eligibility for coverage under the Plan or a claim related to the Article 8 Loyalty Conditions may file a written request for such benefit with the Executive Compensation Administration Department, setting forth his or her claim. The request must be addressed to the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department at its then principal place of business. 

(b)                Claim Decision.  Upon receipt of a claim, the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department shall review the claim and provide the Claimant with a written notice of its decision within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, after the claim is received. If the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department determines that special circumstances require an extension of time beyond the initial ninety (90)- day claim review period, the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department shall notify the Claimant in writing within the initial ninety (90)-day period and explain the special circumstances that require the extension and state the date by which the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department expects to render its decision on the claim. If this notice is provided, the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department may take up to an additional ninety (90) days (for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days after receipt of the claim) to render its decision on the claim. 

If the claim is denied by the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department, in whole or in part, the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department shall provide a written decision using language calculated to be understood by the Claimant and setting forth:  (i) the specific reason or reasons for such denial; (ii) specific references to pertinent provisions of this Plan on which such denial is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation of why such material or such information is necessary; (iv) a description of the Plan's procedures for review of denied claims and the steps to be taken if the Claimant wishes to submit the claim for review; (v) the time limits for requesting a review of a denied claim under this section and for conducting the review under this section ; and (vi)  a statement of the Claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA if the claim is denied following review under this section.

(c)                Request for Review. Within sixty (60) days after the receipt by the Claimant of the written decision on the claim provided for in this section, the Claimant may request in writing that the Plan Administrator review the determination of the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department.  Such request must be addressed to the Plan Administrator at the address provided in the written decision regarding the claim.  To assist the Claimant in deciding whether to request a review of a denied claim or in preparing a request for review of a denied claim, a Claimant shall be provided, upon written request to the Plan Administrator and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claim.  The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but need not, submit a statement of the issues and comments in writing, as well as other documents, records or other information relating to the claim for consideration by the Committee.  If the Claimant does not request a review by the Plan Administrator of the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department's decision within such sixty (60)-day period, the Claimant shall be barred and estopped from challenging the determination of the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department. 

(d)                Review of Decision.  Within sixty (60) days after the Plan Administrator's receipt of a request for review, the Plan Administrator will review the decision of the AT T Executive Compensation Administration Department.  If the Plan Administrator determines that special circumstances require an extension of time beyond the initial sixty (60)-day review period, the Plan Administrator shall notify the Claimant in writing within the initial sixty (60)-day period and explain the special circumstances that require the extension and state the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to render its decision on the review of the claim.  If this notice is provided, the Plan Administrator may take up to an additional sixty (60) days (for a total of one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of the request for review) to render its decision on the review of the claim. 

During its review of the claim, the Plan Administrator shall:

(1)                Take into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial review of the claim conducted pursuant to this section; 

(2)                Follow reasonable procedures to verify that its benefit determination is made in accordance with the applicable Plan documents; and 

(3)                Follow reasonable procedures to ensure that the applicable Plan provisions are applied to the Participant to whom the claim relates in a manner consistent with how such provisions have been applied to other similarly-situated Participants. 

After considering all materials presented by the Claimant, the Plan Administrator will render a decision, written in a manner designed to be understood by the Claimant.  If the Plan Administrator denies the claim on review, the written decision will include (i) the specific reasons for the decision; (ii) specific references to the pertinent provisions of this Plan on which the decision is based; (iii) a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request to the Plan Administrator and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claim; and (iv) a statement of the Claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.

In any case, a Participant or Beneficiary may have further rights under ERISA. The Plan provisions require that Participants or Beneficiary pursue all claim and appeal rights described in this section before they seek any other legal recourse regarding claims for benefits.

Appendix A 

AT T Health Plan

2016 Monthly Contributions, Annual Deductible, Coinsurance Percentages and

Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum

Active Participants

Monthly Contributions

Individual - $67

Individual + Spouse - $83

Individual + 1 or More Children - $67

Individual + Spouse + 1 or More Children - $162

Annual Deductible (combined with group medical plan annual deductible)

Individual - $1,500

Individual + 1 or More - $3,000

Individual + Spouse + 1 or More Children - $2,600

Coinsurance Percentage (Note 1)

10% after the Annual Deductible is met.  Coinsurance applies until the Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum is reached.

Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum

Individual - $4,000

Individual + 1 or More - $8,000

Note 1:  For prescription pharmacy services, the Coinsurance shall equal the lesser of (i) the Coinsurance Percentage multiplied by the amount of the Covered Health Services or (ii) the amount payable by the Participant for such services under the Basic Plan.

Retired Participants   Monthly Contributions

Monthly Contributions for COBRA Continuation Coverage

Appendix B 

Claims Procedure Applicable to Claims for Benefits under the Plan

Claim for Benefits Procedures

You, your covered dependents or a duly authorized person has the right under ERISA and the Plan to file a written claim for benefits under the Plan. The following describes the procedures used by the Plan to process claims for benefits, along with your rights and responsibilities. These procedures were designed to comply with the rules of the Department of Labor (DOL) concerning claims for Benefits. It is important that you follow these procedures to make sure that you receive full benefits under the Plan.

The Plan is an ERISA plan, and you may file suit in federal court if you are denied benefits you believe are due you under the Plan. However, you must complete the full claims and appeal process offered under the Plan before filing a lawsuit.

Filing a Claim for Benefits

When filing a claim for benefits, you should file the claim with the Claims Administrator.  The Claims Administrator is the third party to whom claims and appeal responsibility has been delegated as permitted under Section 9.1 of the Plan.

The following are not considered claims for benefits under the Plan:

A claim related to basic eligibility for coverage under the Plan (See Section 12.2 of the Plan).

A claim related to the Loyalty Conditions contained in Article 8 of the Plan (See Section 12.2 of the Plan).

Claim Filing Limits 

A request for payment of benefits must be submitted within one year after the date of service or the date the prescription was provided.

Required Information 

When you request payment of benefits from the Plan, you must provide certain information as requested by the Claims Administrator.

Benefit Determinations 

Post-Service Claims

Post-service claims are those claims that are filed for payment of benefits after medical care has been received. If your post-service claim is denied, you will receive a written notice from the Claims Administrator within 30 days of receipt of the claim, as long as all needed information identified above and any other information that the Claims Administrator may request in connection with services rendered to you was provided with the claim. The Claims Administrator will notify you within this 30-day period if additional information is needed to process the Claim and may request a one-time extension not longer than 15 days and pend your Claim until all information is received.

Once notified of the extension, you then have 45 days to provide this information. If all of the needed information is received within the 45-day time frame and the claim is denied, the claims Administrator will notify you of the denial within 15 days after the information is received. If you don't provide the needed information within the 45-day period, your claim will be denied.

A denial notice will explain the reason for denial, refer to the part of the Plan on which the denial is based, and provide the claim appeal procedures.

Pre-Service Claims

Pre-service claims are those claims that require notification or approval prior to receiving medical care or require notification within a specified time period after service begins as required under the Plan provisions. If your claim is a pre-service claim and is submitted properly with all needed information, you will receive written notice of the claim decision from the Claims Administrator within 15 days of receipt of the claim. If you file a pre-service claim improperly, the Claims Administrator will notify you of the improper filing and how to correct it within five days after the pre-service claim is received. If additional information is needed to process the pre-service claim, the Claims Administrator will notify you of the information needed within 15 days after the claim was received and may request a one-time extension not longer than 15 days and pend your claim until all information is received. Once notified of the extension, you then have 45 days to provide this information. If all of the needed information is received within the 45-day time frame, the Claims Administrator will notify you of the determination within 15 days after the information is received. If you don't provide the needed information within the 45-day period, your claim will be denied. A denial notice will explain the reason for denial, refer to the part of the Plan on which the denial is based, and provide the claim appeal procedures.

Urgent Care Claims That Require Immediate Action 

Urgent care claims are those claims that require notification or approval prior to receiving medical care in which a delay in treatment could seriously jeopardize your life or health or the ability to regain maximum function or, in the opinion of a physician with knowledge of your medical condition, could cause severe pain. In these situations:

You will receive notice of the benefit determination in writing or electronically within 72 hours after the Claims Administrator receives all necessary information, taking into account the seriousness of your condition.

Notice of denial may be oral with a written or electronic confirmation to follow within three days.

If you filed an urgent claim improperly, the Claims Administrator will notify you of the improper filing and how to correct it within 24 hours after the urgent claim was received. If additional information is needed to process the claim, the Claims Administrator will notify you of the information needed within 24 hours after the claim was received. You then have 48 hours to provide the requested information.

You will be notified of a determination no later than 48 hours after either:

The Claims Administrator's receipt of the requested information.

The end of the 48-hour period within which you were to provide the additional information, if the information is not received within that time.

A denial notice will explain the reason for denial, refer to the part of the Plan on which the denial is based, and provide the claim appeal procedures.

Concurrent Care Claims

If an ongoing course of treatment was previously approved for a specific period of time or number of treatments, and your request to extend the treatment is an urgent care claim as defined above, your request will be decided within 24 hours, provided your request is made at least 24 hours prior to the end of the approved treatment. The Claims Administrator will make a determination on your request for the extended treatment within 24 hours from receipt of your request.

If your request for extended treatment is not made at least 24 hours prior to the end of the approved treatment, the request will be treated as an urgent care claim and decided according to the time frames described above. If an ongoing course of treatment was previously approved for a specific period of time or number of treatments, and you request to extend treatment in a non-urgent circumstance, your request will be considered a new claim and decided according to post-service or pre-service timeframes, whichever applies.

How to Appeal a Claim Decision

If you disagree with a pre-service or post-service claim determination after following the above steps, you can contact the applicable Claims Administrator in writing to formally request an appeal. Your first appeal request must be submitted to the Claims Administrator within 180 days after you receive the Claim denial.

Appeal Process

A qualified individual who was not involved in the decision being appealed will be appointed to decide the appeal. The Claims Administrator may consult with, or seek the participation of, medical experts as part of the appeal resolution process. You must consent to this referral and the sharing of pertinent medical claim information. Upon written request and free of charge you have the right to reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records and other information relevant to your claim for benefits.

Appeals Determinations

Pre-Service and Post-Service Claim Appeals

You will be provided written or electronic notification of the decision on your appeal as follows:

For appeals of pre-service claims, the first-level appeal will be conducted and you will be notified by the Claims Administrator of the decision within 15 days from receipt of a request for appeal of a denied Claim. The second-level appeal will be conducted and you will be notified by the Claims Administrator of the decision within 15 days from receipt of a request for review of the first-level appeal decision.

For appeals of post-service claims, the first-level appeal will be conducted and you will be notified by the Claims Administrator of the decision within 30 days from receipt of a request for appeal of a denied claim. The second-level appeal will be conducted and you will be notified by the Claims Administrator of the decision within 30 days from receipt of a request for review of the first-level appeal decision.

For procedures associated with urgent Claims, refer to the following "Urgent Claim Appeals That Require Immediate Action" section.

If you are not satisfied with the first-level appeal decision of the Claims Administrator, you have the right to request a second-level appeal from the Claims Administrator. Your second level appeal request must be submitted to the Claims Administrator in writing within 60 days from receipt of the first-level appeal decision.

For pre-service and post-service claim appeals, the Plan Administrator has delegated to the Claims Administrator the exclusive right to interpret and administer the provisions of the Plan. The Claims Administrator's decisions are conclusive and binding.

Please note that the Claims Administrator's decision is based only on whether or not benefits are available under the Plan for the proposed treatment or procedure. The determination as to whether the pending health service is necessary or appropriate is between you and your physician.

Urgent Claim Appeals That Require Immediate Action

Your appeal may require immediate action if a delay in treatment could significantly increase the risk to your health or the ability to regain maximum function or cause severe pain.

In these urgent situations, the appeal does not need to be submitted in writing. You or your physician should call the Claims Administrator as soon as possible. The Claims Administrator will provide you with a written or electronic determination within 72 hours following receipt by the Claims Administrator of your request for review of the determination taking into account the seriousness of your condition.

For urgent claim appeals, the Plan Administrator has delegated to the applicable Claims Administrator the exclusive right to interpret and administer the provisions of the Plan. The Claims Administrator's decisions are conclusive and binding.

In any case, a Participant or Beneficiary may have further rights under ERISA. The Plan provisions require that Participants or Beneficiary pursue and exhaust all claim and appeal rights described in this section before they seek any other legal recourse regarding claims for benefits.

APPENDIX C 

DISCLOSURE OF GRANDFATHERED STATUS

MODEL NOTICE

AT T, as plan sponsor, believes this Plan is a "grandfathered health plan" under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the "Affordable Care Act").  As permitted by the Affordable Care Act, a grandfathered health plan can preserve certain basic health coverage that was already in effect when that law was enacted.  Being a grandfathered health plan means that the plan may not include certain consumer protections of the Affordable Care Act that apply to other plans, for example, the requirement for the provision of preventive health services without any cost sharing.  However, grandfathered health plans must comply with certain other consumer protections of the Affordable Care Act, for example, the elimination of lifetime limits on benefits.

Questions regarding which protections apply and which protections do not apply to a grandfathered health plan and what might cause a plan to change from grandfathered health plan status can be directed to the plan administrator at  P.O. Box 30558, Salt Lake City, Utah  84130-0558  .    You  may also contact the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of labor at 1-866-444-3272 or  www.dol.gov/ebsa/healthreform .  This website has a table summarizing which protections do and do not apply to grandfathered health plans.

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 3
 ex10_m.htm
 AT&T PENSION BENEFIT MAKE UP PLAN NO. 1

Exhibit 10-m

AT T PENSION BENEFIT 

MAKE UP PLAN NO. 1 

Effective:  January 1, 2005

Restated December 31, 2008

Amended December 31, 2011

AT T PENSION BENEFIT MAKE UP PLAN NO. 1 

SECTION 1:  Purpose and History 

1.1.                  Purpose  . The primary purpose of the AT T Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 1 (the "Plan") is to supplement the benefits a Participant is entitled to receive under a pension plan that is qualified under Code Section 401(a) and is sponsored by AT T Inc. ("AT T" or the "Company") or one of its Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Pension Plans").  This Plan recognizes compensation earned by an individual who is eligible to participate in this Plan as provided in Section 2 (a "Participant") that is not recognized in the determination of benefits under the Participant's Pension Plan, and this Plan is intended to make up benefits that would otherwise be lost because of such Pension Plan limitations. 

The Plan is intended to provide deferred compensation benefits by recognizing compensation earned by a Participant that is in excess of the amount that is recognized under Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and to provide benefits to the extent such Participant's Pension Plan benefits are limited by the provisions of Code Section 415.

1.2.                  History  .  The Plan is effective as of January 1, 2005, and constitutes an amendment and restatement of the plans listed in Attachment A (the "Predecessor Plans").  AT T and companies whose equity interests are owned 100%, directly or indirectly, by AT T ("Subsidiary") sponsored the Predecessor Plans for the benefit of their respective eligible employees.  No additional benefits shall accrue under the Predecessor Plans after December 31, 2004, and benefits of Participants who terminate employment on or after January 1, 2005 shall be paid solely under this Plan.  The Predecessor Plans were intended to supplement participants' Pension Plan benefits by (i) recognizing compensation that is not eligible to be recognized for purposes of calculating Pension Plan benefits, either as a result of statutory limitations or Pension Plan limitations, and/or (ii) providing benefits in excess of the limitations of Code Section 415.  This Plan is intended to aggregate all of such Predecessor Plans and provide substantially similar benefits, on a going forward basis.  Further, this Plan is intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A, effective with respect to amounts deferred after December 31, 2004.   During the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008, the Plan has been operated in good faith compliance with the provisions of Code Section 409A, Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, and the final Treasury Regulations for Code Section 409A, and any other generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue Service Bulletin with an effective date prior to January 1, 2009.  On or after January 1, 2009, this Plan shall be interpreted and construed consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A and all applicable guidance issued thereunder. 

SECTION 2:  Eligibility and Participation 

2.1.                  Eligibility  . Benefit accrual in this Plan is limited to each employee of any Subsidiary of AT T who: 

(a)

participates in a Pension Plan;

(b)

is a General Management level or above employee;

(c)

is not eligible for benefits under the 2005 AT T Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan; and

(d)

receives types of compensation that are used to determine the employee's Pension Plan benefit (e.g., base salary or short term incentive compensation) in any calendar year, but that compensation is not recognized for purposes of determining such employee's Pension Plan benefit, or whose Pension Plan benefit is limited by Code Section 415.

(e)

is not an employee of a company acquired by AT T on or after September 1, 2005 unless designated as eligible by AT T's highest ranking officer specifically responsible for human resource matters; provided, however, effective January 1, 2009, this section 2.1(e) shall not apply to any employee who satisfies the eligibility provisions of this section 2.1 (a), (b), (c), and (d) and is employed by AT T Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries on or after January 1, 2009, other than an employee who is a participant in the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, the AT T Corp. Nonqualified Pension Plan, or the AT T Corp. Excess Pension Plan.

(f) 
 additionally, an employee who (i) meets the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d), (ii) is employed by AT T Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries on or after January 1, 2009 and (iii) either (x) participates in the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("BLS SERP") solely with a totally frozen BLS SERP benefit following a job demotion into an ineligible position prior to December 31, 2011 or (y) previously participated in the BLS SERP but whose annualized benefit under the BLS SERP as of December 31, 2011 was $0 and is not due any benefit under the BLS SERP pursuant to the amendment to Section 4.(a)(I)(A) of such plan effective December 31, 2011, may participate in the Plan. 

2.2.                  Construction of Eligibility Provisions  . The eligibility provisions of Section 2.1, above, shall be interpreted in the broadest possible sense in order that this Plan can recognize all base salary and short term incentive compensation, whenever earned, for the purpose of making up any benefit that would otherwise be lost due to the fact that the Pension Plan is unable to recognize any such compensation in determining retirement benefits. 

2.3.                  Loss of Eligibility  . In the event that any Participant ceases to satisfy the eligibility conditions of Section 2.1, such Participant shall nevertheless continue to be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan, however, no additional benefits shall accrue under the Plan unless and until he or she shall re-attain eligibility hereunder. 

2.4.                  Ineligible Participant  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if any Participant is determined not to be "in a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), or the regulations thereunder, such Participant shall not be eligible to continue to accrue a benefit under this Plan on or after such date to the extent benefits hereunder are attributable to compensation in excess of the amount under Code Section 401(a)(17) and not attributable to the limitations imposed by the provisions of Code Section 415. 

2.5                  No Duplication of Benefits  .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, if a Participant ceases to accrue benefits under this Plan and becomes eligible to receive the equivalent of his/her benefit under this Plan pursuant to the Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 2, to the extent such benefit is paid pursuant to such other plan, no duplication of such payment shall be made pursuant to this Plan. 

SECTION 3:  Amount of Plan Benefits 

3.1.                  Amount of Plan Benefits  . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Plan benefits payable to, or on account of, a Participant under the Plan as of any date shall be an amount as described in the paragraphs below.  A participant's Pension Plan Program is one of the non-bargained programs that are defined and operated as part of the AT T Pension Benefit Plan:  Southeast Management Program, AT T Legacy Management Program, Management Cash Balance Program, Nonbargained Program, and Wireless Program.  The Plan benefit is equal to: 

(a)                the amount of the Participant's benefit under the applicable Pension Plan Program and period of employment in which he or she actively participates (i.e., accrues benefits) on the date of his or her termination of employment that would have been payable to or on account of the Participant under such Pension Plan Program as of that date, determined without regard to the limitations imposed by either Code Section 401(a)(17) or 415 and determined as if all types of compensation that are used to determine the employee's Pension Plan benefit (e.g., base salary and short-term incentive compensation that the Participant is eligible to receive) were recognized for purposes of calculating such amount; 

(i)

if the Participant is also eligible for a separate frozen benefit under another Pension Plan Program for a prior period of employment, such amount is not included in the amount determined under this subsection (a); except in the following case:

(ii)

if the Participant's service was bridged specifically due to the Sixth Amendment to the AT T Pension Benefit Plan, where such amendment was approved in November 2010 and effective January 1, 2010, in cases where a Pension Plan participant transferred employment from the Legacy AT T company or Legacy BellSouth company to Cingular Wireless, after the joint venture formation of Cingular and prior to AT T's acquisition of BellSouth, then the total Pension Plan benefit (from the frozen separate Pension Plan Program and current Pension Plan Program) will be included in the amount determined under this subsection (a);

REDUCED BY

(b)                the amount of the Participant's benefit actually paid under the applicable Pension Plan Program and period of employment in which he or she actively participates (i.e., accrues benefits) on the date of his or her termination of employment; 

(i)

if the Participant is also eligible for a separate frozen benefit under another Pension Plan Program for a prior period of employment, such amount is not included in the amount determined under this subsection (b); except in the following case:

(ii)

if the Participant's service was bridged specifically due to the Sixth Amendment to the AT T Pension Benefit Plan, where such amendment was approved in November 2010 and effective January 1, 2010, in cases where a Pension Plan participant transferred employment from a Legacy AT T company or Legacy BellSouth company to Cingular Wireless, after the joint venture formation of Cingular and prior to AT T's acquisition of BellSouth, then the total Pension Plan benefit (from the frozen separate Pension Plan Program and current Pension Plan Program) will be included in the amount determined under this subsection (b).

The amount determined under subsection (a), above, shall be calculated in the same manner that is used for calculating the amount under subsection (b), using the benefit calculation methodology and the factors in effect under such Pension Plan as of the date of his termination of employment; the only difference being the amount of compensation used for calculating such amount.

The Plan benefit is FURTHER REDUCED BY:

(c)                amount of a BLS SERP participant's frozen BLS SERP benefit. 

Notwithstanding the above descriptions, for any Participant who ceased to satisfy the eligibility conditions of Section 2.1(c) due to initial participation in the AT T Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan on or before December 31, 2008 shall have a Plan benefit equal to the greater of (d) or (e) described below:

(d)

the amount described by paragraphs 3.1(a), 3.1(b) and 3.1(c) above determined as of the Participant's actual termination-of-employment date.

(e) 
 the amount described by paragraphs 3.1(a), 3.1(b) and 3.1(c) above determined as if the Participant had terminated employment effective December 31, 2008. 

3.2.                  Participants in Predecessor Plans  . If a Participant participated in one or more Predecessor Plans prior to becoming a Participant under this Plan, benefits under this Plan shall be no less than the benefits accrued under the Predecessor Plans, and the benefits under this Plan shall be in lieu of all benefits otherwise payable to him under the Predecessor Plans. 

SECTION 4:  Payment of Plan Benefits 

4.1                  Distribution of Plan Benefits  .  Benefits hereunder shall be calculated and distributed upon a Participant's termination of employment; provided, however, distribution of Plan benefits of any Participant who is also an officer of the Company shall commence on the sixth month anniversary of such Participant's termination of employment. 

4.2.                  Form of Plan Benefits  . Benefits hereunder shall be paid in the form of a lump sum; provided, however, if the amount of the Participant's lump sum benefit exceeds $50,000 as of his termination of employment, the Plan benefit shall be paid in monthly installments over a period of ten (10) years.  .Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Participant who, prior to termination of employment ceases to satisfy the eligibility conditions of Section 2.1, the form of such Participant's benefit (lump sum or ten (10) year monthly annuity) shall be determined as of the date such Participant ceases to satisfy the eligibility conditions of Section 2.1. 

If benefits are distributed in the form of a monthly annuity for ten (10) years, the monthly payments shall be calculated in the same manner that a financial institution would calculate the monthly payments for a 10-year fixed interest loan.

Nothwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the benefits of any Participant who was a participant in and accrued benefits under the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive 2005 Transition Pension Make Up Plan (which is a Predecessor Plans) shall have their benefits distributed exclusively in a lump sum.

4.3                  Converting Form of Benefit  .  For all purposes under the Plan, the lump sum benefit and ten year monthly installment form of benefit shall be the actuarially determined equivalent of one another, as determined by the Plan Administrator in the Plan Administrator's complete and sole discretion, and the amount of such benefits under the Plan shall be determined on the basis of the Participant's age and the rates, tables, and factors which would be utilized to determine such benefit under the Pension Plan as of the date required for making such determination.. 

SECTION 5:  General and Administrative Provisions 

5.1.                  Plan Administration  . The Company shall be the Plan Administrator of the Plan.  The Plan Administrator's responsibilities hereunder shall be carried out by its Senior Executive Vice President responsible for Human Resources matters.  The authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan shall be vested in the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator has the exclusive right and discretion to construe, interpret and apply the provisions of the Plan and the entitlement to benefits under the Plan in accordance with its terms. The Plan Administrator may establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as the Plan Administrator may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  Any decision made by the Plan Administrator on any matter within the Plan Administrator's discretion is conclusive, final and binding on all persons, and not subject to further review. The Benefit Plan Committee of the Company shall grant or deny claims for benefits under the Plan and authorize disbursements. Adequate notice, pursuant to applicable law and prescribed Company practices, shall be provided in writing to any Participant or Beneficiary whose claim has been denied, setting forth the specific reasons for such denial. The review and appeal procedures for any Participant or Beneficiary whose claim has been denied shall be the same as those procedures set forth in the Pension Plan under which such Participant or Beneficiary is entitled to or received benefits. 

5.2.                  Source of Benefits; Unsecured Creditor  . The obligations of the Company under the Plan are solely contractual. Any amount payable under the terms of the Plan shall be paid from the general assets of the Company or a Subsidiary.  Alternatively, amounts payable under the terms of the Plan may be paid from one or more trusts that the Company or a Subsidiary might elect to establish, the assets of which will be subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Company or the Subsidiary that created the trust.  Participants and their beneficiaries shall have no legal or equitable rights, interest, or claims in any property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary.  Any and all of the Company's or a Subsidiary's assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of the Company or any such Subsidiary.  The Company's or a Subsidiary's obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company or any such Subsidiary to distribute cash under the Plan in the future.  If a Participant's term of employment includes service by two Subsidiaries or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries, the Company or Subsidiary which last employed the Participant shall be solely responsible for the entire benefit payable under the Plan. 

5.3.                  Notices  . Any notice or document required to be given to or filed with the Plan Administrator shall be considered to be given or filed if delivered to the Plan Administrator or mailed by registered mail, postage prepaid, to the Plan Administrator. 

5.4.                  Applicable Laws  . The Plan shall be construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas, to the extent that such laws are not preempted by ERISA or any other laws of the United States of America. 

5.5.                  Gender and Number  . Where the context requires, words in any gender shall include any other gender, words in the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. 

5.6.                  Benefits Determined as of Termination of Employment  . Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Plan, the right to benefits under the Plan and the amount of benefits of a Participant who has terminated or terminates employment with the Company or a Subsidiary shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Plan as in effect immediately prior to that termination of employment. 

5.7.                  Benefits Under Predecessor Plans  .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, nothing shall reduce or impair the interests of individuals with respect to benefits that are being paid under a Predecessor Plan as of the effective date of this Plan without the consent of the affected Participant.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, nothing shall reduce or impair the interests of individuals with respect to benefits that are accrued under a Predecessor Plan as of the effective date of this Plan without the consent of the affected Participant; provided, however, benefits accrued as of December 31, 2004 under the terms of a Predecessor Plan shall only be distributed and paid under the terms of Section 4 of this Plan. 

5.8.                  Plan Not Contract of Employment  . The Plan does not constitute a contract of employment, and nothing in the Plan or any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or to give any employee or Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary. 

5.9.                  Benefits May Not Be Assigned or Alienated  . Benefits payable to, or on account of, any individual under the Plan may not be voluntarily or involuntarily assigned, pledged, transferred, mortgaged, alienated, conveyed in advance of actual receipt or otherwise encumbered.  No such amounts shall be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separation maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency.  Any such attempted assignments to transfer shall be void.  Prior to the death of any Participant, no other person shall have any rights under the Plan with respect to that Participant. 

5.10.                  Beneficiary Designation  .  Participants shall have the right to designate a Beneficiary to receive their benefits under the Plan should such Participant die prior to commencement of or complete distribution of benefits hereunder.  The AT T Rules for Beneficiary Designations as may hereafter be amended from time to time (the "Rules"), which Rules are incorporated herein by this reference, shall apply.  For purposes of this Plan, "Beneficiary" shall mean any beneficiary designated by a Participant to receive his or her benefits under this Plan in the event of the Participant's death, or as otherwise determined under the Rules to the extent the Participant fails to designate a beneficiary. 

5.11.                  Amendments and Termination  . The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time in accordance with the provisions of the AT T Schedule of Authorizations, as amended from time-to-time, but such amendments or termination shall not adversely affect the rights of any Participant, without his or her consent, to any benefit payable under the Plan to which such Participant has previously become entitled prior to the effective date of such amendment or termination. 

5.12.                  Tax Withholding  . All applicable federal, state and local taxes required by law to be withheld shall be deducted from benefits paid under this Plan. 

5.13.                  Offsets and Overpayments  .  If any overpayment is made by the Plan for any reason, the Plan shall have the right to recover such overpayment.  The Participant shall cooperate fully with the Plan to recover any overpayment and provide any necessary information and required documents.  If a Participant entitled to distribution of benefits hereunder owes any amount to AT T or any Subsidiary, such amount may be withheld from benefits payable hereunder to satisfy such obligation.  Any overpayment or Participant debt to AT T or any Subsidiary may be deducted from future benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant from this Plan. 

Attachment A

Predecessor Plans

1.

The AT T Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 1 , which is also the successor plan, effective January 1, 2000, to the SNET Pension Benefit Plan and, effective January 1, 1999, to the Pacific Telesis Group Excess Benefit Plan.

2.

Section 4.10.2 of the AT T Pension Benefit Plan   Non-Bargained Program , which are the 415 Excess Benefit Provisions of such plan

3.

The Ameritech Corporate Resource Supplemental Pension Plan , which is a successor to the Ameritech Senior Management Retirement and Survivor Protection Plan and was established by Ameritech Corporation effective as of January 1, 1986, which, in turn was an amendment, restatement and continuation of the following predecessor plans:  the Ameritech Management Supplemental Pension Plan, the Ameritech Senior Management Non-Qualified Pension Plan, the Ameritech Mid-Career Pension Plan, and the retirement and survivor benefit provisions of the Ameritech Senior Management Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan.

4.

The Ameritech Management Supplemental Pension Benefit Plan

5.

Effective January 1, 2009,  The Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Pension Make Up Plan  and  The Cingular Wireless SBC Executive 2005 Transition Pension Make Up Plan 

</EX-10>

<EX-12>
 4
 ex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 5
 ex13.htm
 AT&T INC. 2015 ANNUAL REPORT

1

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

For ease of reading, AT T Inc. is referred to as "we," "AT T" or the "Company" throughout this document, and the names of the particular subsidiaries and affiliates providing the services generally have been omitted. AT T is a holding company whose subsidiaries and affiliates operate in the communications and digital entertainment services industry. Our subsidiaries and affiliates provide services and equipment that deliver voice, video and broadband services both domestically and internationally. During 2015, we completed our acquisitions of DIRECTV and wireless properties in Mexico and have included the results of those operations for the period from acquisition through December 31, 2015. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), operating results from DIRECTV prior to the acquisition are excluded. You should read this discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. A reference to a "Note" in this section refers to the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the tables throughout this section, percentage increases and decreases that are not considered meaningful are denoted with a dash. Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation, including our change in accounting for customer fulfillment costs (see Note 1).

Consolidated Results   Our financial results are summarized in the table below. We then discuss factors affecting our overall results for the past three years. These factors are discussed in more detail in our "Segment Results" section. We also discuss our expected revenue and expense trends for 2016 in the "Operating Environment and Trends of the Business" section.

Overview

Operating revenues  increased $14,354, or 10.8% in 2015 and increased $3,695, or 2.9% in 2014.

Service    revenues increased $13,240, or 11.2%, in 2015 and decreased $815, or 0.7%, in 2014. The increase in 2015 was primarily due to our acquisition of DIRECTV, our new wireless operations in Mexico, and gains in fixed strategic business services and AT T U-verse    (U-verse) services. The decrease in 2014 was primarily due to customers choosing to purchase devices through installment payment agreements which entitles them to a lower service rate in our wireless Mobile Share plans, continued declines in our legacy wireline voice and data products and the October 2014 sale of our Connecticut operations, partially offset by strong revenues from U-verse, fixed strategic business services and revenues from the March 2014 acquisition of Leap Wireless International, Inc. (Leap).

2

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Equipment    revenues increased $1,114, or 8.0%, in 2015 and $4,510, or 47.5%, in 2014. The increases in 2015 and 2014 were due to the continuing trend by our postpaid wireless subscribers to purchase devices on installment payment agreements rather than the device subsidy model, which resulted in increased equipment revenue recognized for device sales.

Operating   expenses  increased $1,781, or 1.5%, in 2015 and $22,235, or 22.7%, in 2014.

Equipment  expenses increased $322, or 1.7%, in 2015 and $2,302, or 13.8%, in 2014. Expense increases in 2015 and 2014 are primarily due to the continuing trend of customers choosing higher-priced wireless devices. The expense increase in 2014 also reflects higher upgrade equipment sales.  

Broadcast, programming and operations  expenses increased $7,921 in 2015 and $767, or 23.2%, in 2014. Broadcast costs increased in 2015 due to our acquisition of DIRECTV. Also contributing to the increases in 2015 and 2014 were higher content costs for our U-verse subscribers.

Other cost of services  expenses decreased $1,342, or 3.6%, in 2015 and increased $5,885, or 18.8%, in 2014. The expense decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a $3,078 change in our annual pension and postemployment benefit actuarial adjustment, which was a gain in 2015 and a loss in 2014. Also contributing to the 2015 decrease were higher High Cost Fund and Connect America Fund receipts from the Universal Service Fund and the fourth quarter 2014 sale of our Connecticut wireline operations, offset by the addition of DIRECTV, increased network rationalization charges related to Leap, merger and integration charges and wireless handset insurance costs.

The expense increase in 2014 included a $4,406 change resulting from the annual remeasurement of our benefit plans, which was an actuarial loss in 2014 and a gain in 2013. The increase also reflected higher wireless network costs, U-verse content costs and subscriber growth, and employee-related charges.

Selling, general and administrative    expenses decreased $6,743, or 17.0%, in 2015 and increased $11,283, or 39.7%, in 2014. 2015 expenses decreased $6,943 as a result of recording an actuarial gain in 2015 and an actuarial loss in 2014. The 2015 decrease was also due to lower employee-related charges resulting from workforce reductions, lower wireless commissions and the fourth-quarter 2014 sale of our Connecticut wireline operations, offset by costs resulting from the acquisition of DIRECTV.

The expense increase in 2014 included an $11,047 change resulting from the annual remeasurement of our benefit plans, which was an actuarial loss in 2014 and a gain in 2013. Expense increases in 2014 also reflect higher selling and administrative expenses in our wireless business and gains on spectrum transactions in 2013. These increases were partially offset by lower employee-related costs and wireless commissions expenses.

Abandonment of network assets   In 2014, we recorded a noncash charge of $2,120 for the abandonment in place of certain network assets (see Note 6). During the fourth quarter of 2014, we completed a study of our network assets and determined that specific copper assets would not be necessary to support future network activity, due to declining customer demand for our legacy voice and data products and the transition of our networks to next generation IP-based technology.

Depreciation and amortization  expense increased $3,743, or 20.5%, in 2015 and decreased $122, or 0.7%, in 2014. The 2015 amortization expense increased $2,198 due to the amortization of intangibles from recent acquisitions. The 2014 amortization expense decreased $145 due to lower amortization of intangibles for customer lists.

Depreciation expense increased $1,545, or 8.7%, in 2015. The increase was primarily due to the acquisitions of DIRECTV and our wireless properties in Mexico and ongoing capital spending for network upgrades. The increases were partially offset by the abandonment of certain wireline network assets, which occurred in 2014, and certain network assets becoming fully depreciated. The 2014 depreciation expense increased $23 due to ongoing capital spending for network upgrades and expansion and additional expense associated with the assets acquired from Leap. These increases were largely offset by extending the estimated useful life of software and certain network assets becoming fully depreciated assets.

3

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Operating income  increased $12,573 in 2015 and decreased $18,540, or 60.3% in 2014. Our operating margin was 16.9% in 2015, compared to 9.2% in 2014 and 23.9% in 2013. Contributing $10,021 to the increase in operating income in 2015 was a noncash actuarial gain of $2,152 and an actuarial loss of $7,869 in 2014. The increase in operating income for 2015 also included higher acquisition-related charges and expenses relating to growth areas of our business in 2015. Contributing $15,453 to the decrease in operating income in 2014 was a noncash actuarial loss of $7,869 related to pension and postemployment benefit plans, and an actuarial gain of $7,584 in 2013. Operating income for 2014 also included a noncash charge of $2,120 related to an abandonment of network assets, higher wireless equipment costs resulting from higher device sales and customers choosing higher-priced devices, increased expenses supporting U-verse subscriber growth, and continued declines in our traditional voice and data services.

Interest expense  increased $507, or 14.0%, in 2015 and decreased $327, or 8.3%, in 2014. The increase in 2015 was primarily due to higher average debt balances, including debt issued and debt acquired in connection with our acquisition of DIRECTV and spectrum acquired in the Advanced Wireless Service (AWS)-3 Auction. These increases were partially offset by lower average interest rates and an increase in capitalized interest resulting from spectrum acquired in the AWS-3 Auction (see Note 5).

The decrease in 2014 was primarily due to a $581 charge related to debt tender offers in 2013 and lower interest rates resulting from refinancing activity, partially offset by interest expense related to our December 2013 tower transaction (see Note 16), higher debt balances and charges associated with the early redemption of debt during 2014.

Equity in net income of affiliates  decreased $96, or 54.9%, in 2015 and $467, or 72.7%, in 2014. The decrease in 2015 primarily resulted from the sale of our investment in Am rica M vil, S.A. de C.V. (Am rica M vil) in June 2014 (see Note 5), combined with lower earnings from YP Holdings LLC (YP Holdings) and increased expenses in Otter Media Holdings. The decrease in 2015 was slightly offset by earnings from investments acquired in our purchase of DIRECTV (see Note 8). The sale of the investment in Am rica M vil, lower earnings from YP Holdings and our investment in the mobile payment joint venture Softcard TM  (Softcard) contributed to lower equity in net income of affiliates in 2014.

Other income (expense)   net  We had other expense of $52 in 2015, and other income of $1,581 and $596 in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Results for 2015 included foreign exchange losses of $74, net losses on the sale of investments of $87 and interest and dividend income of $95.

Other income for 2014 included a combined net gain of $1,470 on the sale of Am rica M vil shares, our Connecticut operations and other investments and interest and dividend income of $68. Results for 2013 included a net gain on the sale of Am rica M vil shares and other investments of $498 and interest and dividend income of $68.

Income tax expense  increased $3,386 in 2015 and decreased $5,709 in 2014. The increase in 2015 and decrease in 2014 were primarily due to a change in income before income taxes. Our effective tax rate was 33.9% in 2015, 34.9% in 2014 and 33.3% in 2013 (see Note 11).

4

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Segment Results

Our segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services over various technology platforms and/or in different geographies that are managed accordingly. Our operating segment results presented in Note 4 and discussed below for each segment follow our internal management reporting. We analyze our operating segments based on segment contribution, which consists of operating income, excluding acquisition-related costs and other significant items, and equity in net income of affiliates for investments managed within each operating segment. Each segment's percentage calculation of total segment operating revenue and income is derived from our segment results table in Note 4, and may total more than 100 percent due to losses in one or more segments. We have four reportable segments: (1) Business Solutions, (2) Entertainment Group, (3) Consumer Mobility and (4) International.

We also evaluate segment performance based on segment operating income before depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as EBITDA and/or EBITDA margin. We believe EBITDA to be a relevant and useful measurement to our investors as it is part of our internal management reporting and planning processes and it is an important metric that management uses to evaluate operating performance. EBITDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. EBITDA margin is operating income before depreciation and amortization, divided by total revenues.

The   Business Solutions segment   accounted for approximately 49% of our 2015 total segment operating revenues as compared to 54% in 2014 and 59% of our 2015 total segment contribution as compared to 66% in 2014. This segment provides services to business, governmental and wholesale customers, and individual subscribers who purchase wireless services through employer-sponsored plans. We provide advanced IP-based services including Virtual Private Networks (VPN), Ethernet-related products and broadband, collectively referred to as strategic business services, as well as traditional data and voice products. We utilize our wireless and wired network and are marketed to provide a complete communications solution to our business customers.

The   Entertainment Group segment   accounted for approximately 24% of our 2015 total segment operating revenues as compared to 17% in 2014 and 7% of our 2015 total segment contribution as compared to a loss in 2014. This segment provides video, Internet and voice communication services to residential customers located in the U.S. or in U.S. territories. We utilize our copper and IP-based (referred to as "wired" or "wireline") wired network and/or our satellite technology.

The  Consumer Mobility segment  accounted for approximately 24% of our 2015 total segment operating revenues as compared to 28% in 2014 and 35% of our 2015 total segment contribution as compared to 39% in 2014. This segment provides nationwide wireless service to consumers, and wireless wholesale and resale subscribers located in the U.S. or in U.S. territories. We utilize our U.S. wireless network to provide voice and data services, including high-speed Internet, video entertainment and home monitoring services.

The   International segment   accounted for approximately 3% of our 2015 total segment operating revenues. This segment provides entertainment services in Latin America and wireless services in Mexico. Video entertainment services are provided to primarily residential customers using satellite technology. We utilize our regional and national networks in Mexico to provide consumer and business customers with wireless data and voice communication services. Our international subsidiaries conduct business in their local currency and operating results are converted to U.S. dollars using official exchange rates. Our International segment is subject to foreign currency fluctuations.

Our operating assets are utilized by multiple segments and consist of our wireless and wired networks as well as an international satellite fleet. We manage our assets to provide for the most efficient, effective and integrated service to our customers, not by operating segment, and therefore asset information and capital expenditures by operating segment are not presented. Depreciation is allocated based on network usage or asset utilization by segment.

We discuss capital expenditures in "Liquidity and Capital Resources."

5

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

3  Calculated by dividing the aggregate number of wireless subscribers who canceled service during a period divided by the total number of wireless subscribers at the beginning of that period. The churn rate for the period is equal to the average of the churn rate for each month of that period.   

Operating revenues  increased $521, or 0.7%, in 2015 and $2,959, or 4.4%, in 2014. Revenue growth was driven by wireless revenues and continued growth in fixed strategic business services, partially offset by continued declines in our legacy voice and data services and foreign exchange pressures.

6

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Wireless service   revenues increased $505, or 1.7%, in 2015 and $486, or 1.6%, in 2014. The revenue increases reflect smartphone and tablet gains as well as customer migrations from our Consumer Mobility segment.

Business wireless subscribers increased 13.1%, to 73.7 million subscribers at December 31, 2015 compared to 14.0%, to 65.1 million subscribers at December 31, 2014. Postpaid subscribers increased 6.9% in 2015 compared to 10.7% in 2014 reflecting the addition of new customers as well as migrations from our Consumer Mobility segment, partially offset by continuing competitive pressures in the industry. Connected devices, which have lower average revenue per average subscriber (ARPU) and lower churn, increased 26.8% in 2015 compared to 22.2% in 2014 reflecting growth in business customers using tracking, monitoring and other sensor-embedded devices on their equipment.

The effective management of subscriber churn is critical to our ability to maximize revenue growth and to maintain and improve margins. Business wireless postpaid churn increased to 0.99% in 2015 from 0.90% in 2014 and 0.89% in 2013.

Fixed strategic services  revenues increased $1,244, or 12.9%, in 2015 and $1,222, or 14.5%, in 2014. Our revenues, which were negatively impacted by foreign exchange rates, increased in 2015 and 2014 due to: Ethernet increases of $389 and $340, U-verse services increases of $247 and $170, Ethernet access to Managed Internet Services increases of $190 and $163 and VPN increases of $116 and $359.

Legacy wired voice and data service  revenues decreased $1,838, or 9.3%, in 2015 and $1,812, or 8.4%, in 2014. Traditional data revenues in 2015 and 2014 decreased $1,040 and $1,318 and long-distance and local voice revenues decreased $797 and $475. The decreases were primarily due to lower demand as customers continue to shift to our more advanced IP-based offerings or our competitors.

Other service  revenues decreased $302, or 7.8%, in 2015 and $18, or 0.5%, in 2014. Other service revenues include project-based revenue, which is nonrecurring in nature, as well as revenues from other managed services, outsourcing, government professional service and customer premises equipment. The declines in 2015 and 2014 are primarily due to lower project-based and equipment revenues, as well as impacts from foreign exchange rates.

Wireless equipment   revenues increased $912, or 13.0%, in 2015 and $3,081, or 77.8%, in 2014. The increase was primarily due to the increase in handsets sold under our AT T Next  SM   (AT T Next) program and the increase in sales of higher-priced smartphones .

Operations and support  expenses decreased $880, or 1.9%, in 2015 and increased $2,384, or 5.5%, in 2014. Operations and support expenses consist of costs incurred to provide our products and services, including costs of operating and maintaining our networks and personnel costs, such as compensation and benefits.

Expense decreases in 2015 were primarily due to:

Lower commission costs of $995 primarily due to lower average commission rates and fewer upgrade transactions.

Lower employee-related charges of $508 resulting from workforce reductions and other cost initiatives.

Reductions of $269 in access costs, primarily due to lower interconnect, roaming and traffic compensation costs.

Lower customer service costs of $146 primarily resulting from our simplified offerings and increased efforts to resolve customer inquiries on their first call.

Partially offsetting the decreases in 2015 were:

Higher wireless handset insurance cost of $370 resulting from higher claim rates and costs per claim.

Increased equipment expense of $304 due to the continuing trend of customers choosing higher-cost devices.

Higher bad debt expense of $173 resulting from a higher AT T Next subscriber base.

Expense increases in 2014 were primarily due to:

Increased equipment expense of $1,779 due to increased sales and the continuing trend of customers choosing higher-cost devices.

Network system costs increased $315 due to increased lease fees, higher maintenance and energy costs resulting from the increase in the number of cell sites and expenses related to our network enhancement efforts.

Higher wireless handset insurance cost of $159 resulting from higher claim rates and costs per claim.

7

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Depreciation  expense increased $434, or 4.6%, in 2015 and $390, or 4.4%, in 2014. The increases were primarily due to the increase in ongoing capital spending for network upgrades and expansion partially offset by fully depreciated assets.

Operating income  increased $967, or 6.3%, in 2015 and $185, or 1.2%, in 2014. Our Business Solutions segment operating income margin was 23.0% in 2015, compared to 21.8% in 2014 and 22.5% in 2013. Our Business Solutions EBITDA margin was 36.8% in 2015, compared to 35.1% in 2014 and 35.8% in 2013.

8 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The following table highlights other key measures of performance for the Entertainment Group   segment: 

Operating revenues  increased $13,061, or 58.7%, in 2015 and $691, or 3.2%, in 2014. Our July 2015 acquisition of DIRECTV was largely responsible for higher revenues beginning in the third quarter of 2015. Also contributing to the increases was continued strong growth in consumer IP broadband and U-verse video, which more than offset lower revenues from legacy voice and data products.

Video entertainment  revenues increased $13,445 in 2015 and $1,016, or 17.5%, in 2014. The 2015 increase was primarily related to our acquisition of DIRECTV. With our acquisition of DIRECTV, we are now focusing our sales efforts on satellite service as there are lower content costs for satellite subscribers. U-verse video revenue increased $932 in 2015. The 2014 increase was primarily due to a 12.6% increase in U-verse video connections, when compared to 2013.

High-speed Internet  revenues increased $1,079, or 19.5%, in 2015 and $1,303, or 30.9%, in 2014. When compared to 2014, IP broadband connections increased 8.5%, to 12.4 million connections at December 31, 2015; however, 2015 net additions were lower due to fewer U-verse sales promotions in the year and churn of video customers, some of whom also purchased broadband service. When compared to 2013, IP broadband connections increased 20.0%, to 11.4 million connections at December 31, 2014.

Legacy voice and data service  revenues decreased $1,678, or 22.1%, in 2015 and $2,075, or 21.5%, in 2014. The revenue decreases were due to a $1,083 and $1,367 decrease in long-distance and local voice revenues, respectively, and a $593 and $710 decrease in traditional data revenues, which include circuit-based services.

Other service and equipment  revenues increased $215, or 9.4%, in 2015 and $447, or 24.2%, in 2014.

9

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Operations and support  expenses increased $9,353, or 49.2%, in 2015 and $1,049, or 5.8%, in 2014. Operations and support expenses consist of costs incurred to provide our products and services, including costs of operating and maintaining our networks, providing video content and personnel costs, such as compensation and benefits.

Increased operations and support expenses in 2015 were primarily due to our acquisition of DIRECTV, which increased our Entertainment Group operations and support expenses $9,683. The increases were primarily due to our addition of DIRECTV and content cost increases for our U-verse services.

Increased operations and support expenses in 2014 resulted from an increase of $763 in content costs, reflecting an increased number of subscribers and increasing content costs; an increase of $192 for installation costs; and an increase of $90 for selling and commission expenses resulting from the overall growth of our U-verse services.

Partially offsetting the increased expenses in both years were lower employee charges resulting from ongoing workforce reductions, our focus on cost initiatives and lower equipment costs.

Depreciation  expenses increased $472, or 10.6%, in 2015 and decreased $342, or 7.1%, in 2014. Our 2015 increase was primarily due to our acquisition of DIRECTV and ongoing capital spending for network upgrades and expansion, partially offset by fully depreciated assets. Our 2014 decrease was primarily due to extending the estimated useful life of software, partially offset by ongoing capital spending for network upgrades and expansion.

Operating income  increased $3,236 in 2015 and decreased $16, or 1.3%, in 2014. Our Entertainment Group segment operating income margin was 5.7% in 2015, (5.5)% in 2014, and (5.6)% in 2013. Our Entertainment Group EBITDA margin was 19.7% in 2015, 14.6% in 2014, and 16.7% in 2013.

10 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Operating revenues  decreased $1,703, or 4.6%, in 2015 and increased $526, or 1.5%, in 2014. Decreased revenues in 2015 reflect declines in postpaid service revenues due to customers choosing Mobile Share plans and migrating to our Business Solutions segment, partially offset by higher prepaid service revenues. Our business wireless offerings allow for individual subscribers to purchase wireless services through employer-sponsored plans for a reduced price. The migration of these subscribers to the Business Solutions segment negatively impacted our consumer postpaid subscriber total and service revenue growth.

Increased revenues in 2014 are primarily due to an increase in prepaid services attributable to our acquisition of Leap and increased equipment revenues. These increases were partially offset by customers choosing Mobile Share plans and migrating to our Business Solutions segment.

Postpaid wireless  revenues decreased $2,252, or 9.3%, in 2015 and $2,858, or 10.5%, in 2014. These decreases were largely due to customers continuing to shift to no-device-subsidy plans, which allow for discounted monthly service charges under our Mobile Share plans and the migration of subscribers to Business Solutions. Without the migration of customers to Business Solutions, postpaid wireless revenues would have decreased approximately 4.0% in 2015 and 5.4% for 2014.

Prepaid wireless  revenues increased $457, or 10.9%, in 2015 and $1,888, or 81.5%, in 2014. Our prepaid services, which include services sold under the Cricket brand, are monthly prepaid services. Prepaid wireless revenues increased in 2015 primarily due to growth in the subscriber base. The increase in 2014 was primarily due to our March 2014 acquisition of Leap.

Other service revenue  increased $95, or 4.0%, in 2015 and decreased $36, or 1.5%, in 2014.

11

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Equipment  revenue decreased $3, or 0.1%, in 2015 and increased $1,532, or 34.9%, in 2014. The increase in 2014 was primarily related to the increase in devices sold under our AT T Next program and the increase in sales of higher-priced smartphones.

Operations and support  expenses decreased $2,414, or 10.1%, in 2015 and increased $1,346, or 6.0%, in 2014. Operations and support expenses consist of costs incurred to provide our products and services, including costs of operating and maintaining our networks and personnel costs, such as compensation and benefits.

Decreased operations and support expenses in 2015 were primarily due to the following:

Selling and commission expenses decreased $861 primarily due to lower average commission rates, including those paid under the AT T Next program, combined with fewer upgrade transactions.

Network costs decreased $434 primarily due to lower interconnect costs resulting from our ongoing network transition to more efficient Ethernet/IP-based technologies.

Equipment costs decreased $406 primarily due to the decrease in volume of equipment sales, partially offset by an increase in the cost of smartphones.

Customer service costs decreased $275 primarily due to reduced salaries and benefits, lower vendor and professional services from reduced call volumes.

Other cost of service decreased $209 primarily due to incollect roaming fee rate declines, which were partially offset by increased data volume.

Increased operations and support expenses in 2014 were primarily due to the following:

Equipment costs increased $613, reflecting increased sales and customers choosing more expensive smartphones.

Handset insurance cost increased $283 due to an increase in the cost of replacement phones.

Network costs increased $222 due to increased lease fees, higher maintenance and energy costs resulting from the increase in the number of cell sites and expenses related to our network enhancement efforts. These increases were partially offset by lower interconnect costs resulting from our ongoing network transition to more efficient Ethernet/IP-based technologies.

Other cost of service increased $190 primarily due to equipment/device service-related costs associated with home monitoring services and higher incollect roaming costs resulting from increased data volume, which was partially due to the acquisition of Leap. These increases were partially offset by incollect roaming fee rate declines.

Partially offsetting these increases in 2014 were lower selling and commission expenses of $253, which were primarily due to lower average commission rates, including those paid under the AT T Next program.

Depreciation  expense increased $24, or 0.6%, in 2015 and $144, or 3.9%, in 2014. The increase in 2015 was primarily due to ongoing capital spending for network upgrades and expansion that was largely offset by fully depreciated assets. The increase in 2014 was primarily due to ongoing capital spending for network upgrades and expansion, as well as the acquisition of Leap partially offset by fully depreciated assets and extending the estimated useful life of software.

Operating income  increased $687, or 7.6%, in 2015 and decreased $964, or 9.6%, in 2014. Our Consumer Mobility segment operating income margin was 27.8% in 2015, compared to 24.6% in 2014 and 27.6% in 2013. Our Consumer Mobility EBITDA margin was 38.8% in 2015, compared to 35.0% in 2014 and 37.8% in 2013.

12

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Operating Results

Our International segment consists of the Latin America operations acquired in our July 2015 acquisition of DIRECTV as well as the Mexican wireless operations acquired earlier in 2015 (see Note 7). For 2015, our International segment operating income margin was (11.8)% and our International EBITDA margin was 4.2%.

Our 2015 operating revenues were $4,102, with $1,952 attributable to wireless revenues in Mexico and $2,150 in video services in Latin America. Operations and support expenses consist of costs incurred to provide our products and services, including costs of operating and maintaining our networks, providing video content and personnel costs, such as compensation and benefits. Our 2015 operating expenses were $3,930 and operating loss was $483.

Connections Summary

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 8.7 million wireless subscribers in Mexico and 12.5 million video connections in Latin America, including 5.4 million in Brazil. Since acquisition, our Mexico wireless business had a net loss of 96,000 subscribers, mainly prepaid customers, and our Latin America operations had a net loss of 147,000 video connections.

13

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Supplemental Operating Information

As a supplemental discussion of our operating results, for comparison purposes, we are providing a view of our combined domestic wireless operations (AT T Mobility).

14 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Operating income  increased $1,903, or 10.6%, in 2015 and decreased $242, or 1.3%, in 2014. The operating income margin of AT T Mobility was 26.9% in 2015, compared to 24.2% in 2014 and 26.0% in 2013. AT T Mobility's EBITDA margin was 37.9% in 2015, compared to 34.7% in 2014 and 36.3% in 2013. AT T Mobility's EBITDA service margin was 46.7% in 2015, compared to 42.0% in 2014 and 41.3% in 2013. (EBITDA service margin is operating income before depreciation and amortization, divided by total service revenues.)

Subscriber Relationships

As the wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative services, plans and devices and a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations on as broad a geographic basis as possible. To attract and retain subscribers in a maturing market, we have launched a wide variety of plans, including Mobile Share and AT T Next.

15 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

ARPU

Postpaid phone-only ARPU (average revenue per average wireless subscriber) decreased 4.0% in 2015 and 6.6% in 2014 reflecting subscribers' continued adoption of AT T Next and Mobile Share plans. Postpaid phone-only ARPU plus AT T Next subscriber installment billings (postpaid phone-only ARPU plus AT T Next) increased 3.4% in 2015 due to the continuing growth of the AT T Next program. Postpaid phone-only ARPU plus AT T Next decreased 2.4% in 2014.

Churn

The effective management of subscriber churn is critical to our ability to maximize revenue growth and to maintain and improve margins. Total churn was lower in 2015. Postpaid churn was slightly higher in 2015 reflecting continuing competitive pressure in the industry.

Postpaid

Postpaid subscribers increased 1.8% and 4.3% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. At December 31, 2015, 87% of our postpaid phone subscriber base used smartphones, compared to 83% at December 31, 2014 and 77% at December 31, 2013. About 98% of our postpaid smartphone subscribers are on plans that provide for service on multiple devices at reduced rates, and such subscribers tend to have higher retention and lower churn rates. A growing percentage of our postpaid smartphone subscribers are on usage-based data plans, with approximately 51.1 million subscribers on these plans as compared to 48.5 million and 38.7 million, respectively, in the prior two years. About half of our Mobile Share accounts have chosen data plans with 10 gigabytes or higher. Device connections on our Mobile Share plans now represent over 79% of our postpaid customer base. Such offerings are intended to encourage existing subscribers to upgrade their current services and/or add connected devices, attract subscribers from other providers and minimize subscriber churn.

During 2015, we offered postpaid wireless service under two alternatives: (1) for subscribers purchasing a device on installments under the AT T Next program or for those that bring their own device, no annual service contract is signed; however, the device must be paid in full under the AT T Next contract if the customer chooses to drop their service from AT  and (2) for subscribers who purchase their equipment under the traditional device subsidy model, service contracts are for two-year periods with an increasing portion of these subscribers receiving unlimited voice and texting services in conjunction with data services purchased through our Mobile Share plans. Approximately 69% of all postpaid smartphone gross ads and upgrades during 2015 chose AT T Next. While BYOD customers do not generate equipment revenue or incur additional expenses for device subsidy, the service revenue helps improve our margins. In late December 2015, we announced an end to offering subsidized handsets for most of our customers.

Our AT T Next program allows for postpaid subscribers to purchase certain devices in installments over a period of up to 30 months. Additionally, after a specified period of time, they also have the right to trade in the original device for a new device with a new installment plan and have the remaining unpaid balance satisfied. For customers who elect these installment programs, we recognize equipment revenue at the time of the sale for the amount of the customer receivable, net of the fair value of the trade-in right guarantee and imputed interest. A significant percentage of our customers on the AT T Next program pay a lower monthly service charge, which results in lower service revenue recorded for these subscribers.

Prepaid

In 2015, we updated our definition of prepaid subscribers to exclude session-based tablets, which are now included with connected devices. Prepaid subscribers now consist primarily of phone users. Prepaid subscribers increased 15.9% and 71.3% in 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Connected Devices

Connected devices includes data-centric devices such as session-based tablets, monitoring devices and automobile systems. Connected device subscribers increased 25.0% and 17.2% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. During 2015, we added approximately 3.9 million "connected" cars through agreements with various carmakers. We believe that these connected car agreements give us the opportunity to create future retail relationships with the car owners.

OPERATING ENVIRONMENT AND TRENDS OF THE BUSINESS

2016 Revenue Trends  We expect our operating environment in 2016 to be very competitive, especially in the wireless area, as companies and consumers continue to demand instant connectivity and yet we face a regulatory environment that appears increasingly unfriendly to investment in broadband services. Despite these challenges, we expect to grow our consolidated operating revenues in 2016, driven by our ability to offer integrated wireless, video and wireline services, as well as continuing growth in fixed strategic services. We expect that robust competition in the wireless industry will continue to pressure service revenue and ARPU. Our AT T Next program is expected to generate continued growth in equipment revenue, which has the corresponding impact of lowering service revenues. In late December 2015, we announced an end to offering subsidized handsets for most of our customers. We expect that all our major customer categories will continue to increase their use of Internet-based broadband/data services. We expect continuing declines in traditional telephone service revenues. We expect our 2015 acquisitions of DIRECTV and wireless properties in Mexico to increase revenues, although we expect to incur significant integration costs in the same period.

16

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

2016 Expense Trends   We expect stable consolidated operating income margins in 2016 as growth in AT T Next is reducing subsidized handset costs over time and we lower our marginal cost of providing video services and operating our network. We expect to continue our focus on cost reductions, driving savings through automation, supply chain, benefits, digitizing transactions and optimizing network costs. In addition, the transition of our network to a more efficient software-based technology is expected to contribute to favorable expense trends over the next several years. Expenses related to growth areas of our business, including wireless data, and integration of DIRECTV's operations, will apply offsetting pressure to our operating income margin.

Market Conditions  During 2015, the ongoing slow recovery in the general economy continued to negatively affect our customers. Certain industries, such as energy and export-driven businesses are being especially cautious while residential customers continue to be price sensitive in selecting offerings, especially in the wireless area, and continue to focus on offerings that give them efficient access to video and broadcast services. We expect continued pressure on pricing during 2016 as we respond to this intense competition, especially in the wireless business.

Included on our consolidated balance sheets are assets held by benefit plans for the payment of future benefits. Our pension plans are subject to funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). In September 2013, we made a voluntary contribution of a preferred equity interest in AT T Mobility II LLC to the trust used to pay pension benefits. The trust is entitled to receive cumulative annual cash distributions of $560, which will result in a $560 contribution during 2016. In addition, we will contribute $175 no later than the due date for our federal income tax return for 2015. We do not have significant additional contribution requirements to our pension plans for 2016. However, a weakness in the equity, fixed income and real asset markets could require us in future years to make contributions to the pension plans in order to maintain minimum funding requirements as established by ERISA. Investment returns on these assets depend largely on trends in the U.S. securities markets and the U.S. economy. In addition, our policy of recognizing actuarial gains and losses related to our pension and other postretirement plans in the period in which they arise subjects us to earnings volatility caused by changes in market conditions. Changes in our discount rate, which are tied to changes in the bond market, and changes in the performance of equity markets, may have significant impacts on the valuation of our pension and other postretirement obligations at the end of 2016 (see "Accounting Policies and Estimates").

OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OVERVIEW

AT T subsidiaries operating within the United States are subject to federal and state regulatory authorities. AT T subsidiaries operating outside the United States are subject to the jurisdiction of national and supranational regulatory authorities in the markets where service is provided.

In the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), Congress established a national policy framework intended to bring the benefits of competition and investment in advanced telecommunications facilities and services to all Americans by opening all telecommunications markets to competition and reducing or eliminating regulatory burdens that harm consumer welfare. However, since the Telecom Act was passed, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and some state regulatory commissions have maintained or expanded certain regulatory requirements that were imposed decades ago on our traditional wireline subsidiaries when they operated as legal monopolies. We are pursuing, at both the state and federal levels, additional legislative and regulatory measures to reduce regulatory burdens that are no longer appropriate in a competitive telecommunications market and that inhibit our ability to compete more effectively and offer services wanted and needed by our customers, including initiatives to transition services from traditional networks to all IP-based networks. At the same time, we also seek to ensure that legacy regulations are not further extended to broadband or wireless services, which are subject to vigorous competition.

17

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

In February 2015, the FCC released an order reclassifying both fixed and mobile consumer broadband Internet access services as telecommunications services, subject to comprehensive regulation under the Telecom Act. The FCC's decision significantly expands the FCC's existing authority to regulate the provision of fixed and mobile broadband Internet access services. AT T and other providers of broadband Internet access services have challenged the FCC's decision before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. We expect a decision on AT T's appeal in the first half of 2016.

We provide satellite video service through our subsidiary DIRECTV, whose satellites are licensed by the FCC. The Communications Act of 1934 and other related acts give the FCC broad authority to regulate the U.S. operations of DIRECTV. In addition, states representing a majority of our local service access lines have adopted legislation that enables us to provide U-verse video service through a single statewide or state-approved franchise (as opposed to the need to acquire hundreds or even thousands of municipal-approved franchises) to offer competitive video services. We also are supporting efforts to update and improve regulatory treatment for retail services. Regulatory reform and passage of legislation is uncertain and depends on many factors.

We provide wireless services in robustly competitive markets, but those services are subject to substantial and increasing governmental regulation. Wireless communications providers must obtain licenses from the FCC to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the FCC rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum. While wireless communications providers' prices and service offerings are generally not subject to state regulation, states sometimes attempt to regulate or legislate various aspects of wireless services, such as in the area of consumer protection.

The FCC has recognized that the explosive growth of bandwidth-intensive wireless data services requires the U.S. Government to make more spectrum available. In February 2012, Congress set forth specific spectrum blocks to be auctioned and licensed by February 2015 (the "AWS-3 Auction"), and also authorized the FCC to conduct an "incentive auction," to make available for wireless broadband use certain spectrum that is currently used by broadcast television licensees (the "600 MHz Auction"). We participated in the AWS-3 Auction. The FCC announced that the 600 MHz Auction (Auction 1000) is scheduled to begin on March 29, 2016.

In May 2014, in a separate proceeding, the FCC issued an order revising its policies governing mobile spectrum holdings. The FCC rejected the imposition of caps on the amount of spectrum any carrier could acquire, retaining its case-by-case review policy. Moreover, it increased the amount of spectrum that could be acquired before exceeding an aggregation "screen" that would automatically trigger closer scrutiny of a proposed transaction. On the other hand, it indicated that it will separately consider an acquisition of "low band" spectrum that exceeds one-third of the available low band spectrum as presumptively harmful to competition. In addition, the FCC imposed limits on certain bidders in the 600 MHz Auction, including AT T, restricting them from bidding on up to 40 percent of the available spectrum in the incentive auction in markets that cover as much as 70-80 percent of the U.S. population. On balance, the order and the new spectrum screen should allow AT T to obtain additional spectrum to meet our customers' needs, but because AT T uses more "low band" spectrum in its network than some other national carriers, the separate consideration of low band spectrum acquisitions might affect AT T's ability to expand capacity in these bands ("low band" spectrum has better propagation characteristics than "high band" spectrum). We seek to ensure that we have the opportunity, through the auction process and otherwise, to obtain the spectrum we need to provide our customers with high-quality service in the future.

Expected Growth Areas

Over the next few years, we expect our growth to come from IP-based broadband services, video entertainment and wireless services from our expanded North American footprint. With our 2015 acquisitions of DIRECTV and wireless properties in Mexico, our revenue mix is much more diversified. We can now provide integrated services to diverse groups of customers in the U.S. on different technological platforms, including wireless, satellite and wireline. In 2016, we expect our largest revenue stream to come from business customers, followed by U.S. consumer video and broadband, U.S. consumer mobility and then international video and mobility.

Integration of Data/Broadband and Entertainment Services   As the communications industry continues to move toward Internet-based technologies that are capable of blending wireline, satellite and wireless services, we plan to offer services that take advantage of these new and more sophisticated technologies. In particular, we intend to continue to focus on expanding our high-speed Internet and video offerings and on developing IP-based services that allow customers to unite their home or business fixed services with their mobile service. During 2016, we will continue to develop and provide unique integrated video, mobile and broadband solutions. In January 2016, we began offering an unlimited mobile data plan to customers who also purchase DIRECTV or U-verse video service, thereby facilitating our customers' desire to view video anywhere on demand and encouraging customer retention.

18

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Wireless   We expect to deliver continued revenue growth in the coming years. We are in a period of rapid growth in wireless data usage and believe that there are substantial opportunities available for next-generation converged services that combine technologies and services. For example, we entered into agreements with many automobile manufacturers and began providing vehicle-embedded security and entertainment services.

In the United States, we now cover all major metropolitan areas and more than 310 million people with our LTE technology. We also provide 4G coverage using another technology (HSPA+), and when combined with our upgraded backhaul network, we are able to enhance our network capabilities and provide superior mobile broadband speeds for data and video services. Our wireless network also relies on other GSM digital transmission technologies for 3G and 2G data communications. As of December 31, 2015, we served more than 128 million U.S. subscribers.

As the wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative video and data services and a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations. We continue to face spectrum and capacity constraints on our wireless network in certain markets. We expect such constraints to increase and expand to additional markets in the coming years. While we are continuing to invest significant capital in expanding our network capacity, our capacity constraints could affect the quality of existing voice and data services and our ability to launch new, advanced wireless broadband services, unless we are able to obtain more spectrum. Any long-term spectrum solution will require that the FCC make additional spectrum available to the wireless industry to meet the expanding needs of our subscribers. We will continue to attempt to address spectrum and capacity constraints on a market-by-market basis.

In 2015, we acquired two Mexican wireless providers. These two acquisitions give us a GSM network covering both the U.S. and Mexico and enable our customers to use wireless services without roaming on other companies' networks. We believe this seamless access will prove attractive to customers and provide a significant growth opportunity. We also announced in 2015 our plan to invest $3,000 to upgrade the network in Mexico to provide LTE coverage to 100 million people and businesses by year-end 2018. As of year-end 2015, this LTE network covered approximately 44 million people and businesses in Mexico.

REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS

Set forth below is a summary of the most significant regulatory proceedings that directly affected our operations during 2015. Industry-wide regulatory developments are discussed above in Operating Environment Overview. While these issues may apply only to certain subsidiaries, the words "we," "AT T" and "our" are used to simplify the discussion. The following discussions are intended as a condensed summary of the issues rather than as a comprehensive legal analysis and description of all of these specific issues.

International Regulation   Our subsidiaries operating outside the United States are subject to the jurisdiction of regulatory authorities in the market where service is provided. Our licensing, compliance and advocacy initiatives in foreign countries primarily enable the provision of enterprise (i.e., large business) services. AT T is engaged in multiple efforts with foreign regulators to open markets to competition, reduce network costs, foster conditions favorable to investment, and increase our scope of fully authorized network services and products.

Federal Regulation     In February 2015, the FCC released an order in response to the D.C. Circuit's January 2014 decision adopting new rules, and reclassifying both fixed and mobile consumer broadband Internet access services as telecommunications services, subject to comprehensive regulation under the Telecom Act. The FCC's decision significantly expands the FCC's existing authority to regulate the provision of fixed and mobile broadband Internet access services. The FCC also asserted jurisdiction over Internet interconnection arrangements, which until now have been unregulated. These actions could have an adverse impact on our fixed and mobile broadband services and operating results. AT T and several other parties, including US Telecom and CTIA trade groups, have appealed the FCC's order. Briefing and oral argument on the appeal have been completed. The D.C. Circuit is expected to rule on the appeal in the first half of 2016.

19

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

COMPETITION

Competition continues to increase for communications and digital entertainment services. Technological advances have expanded the types and uses of services and products available, which has expanded opportunities in significant portions of our business, including our 2015 acquisitions of DIRECTV and two Mexican wireless providers. Certain of our competitors may have lower costs for comparable alternative servies due to a lack of or a reduced level of regulation.

We face substantial and increasing competition in our wireless businesses. Under current FCC rules, multiple licensees, who provide wireless services on the cellular, PCS, Advanced Wireless Services, 700 MHz and other spectrum bands, may operate in each of our service areas. Our competitors include brands such as Verizon Wireless, Sprint, T-Mobile/Metro PCS, a larger number of regional providers of cellular, PCS and other wireless communications services and resellers of those services. In addition, we face competition from providers who offer voice, text messaging and other services as applications on data networks. More than 98 percent of the U.S. population live in areas with at least three mobile telephone operators, and more than 94 percent of the population live in areas with at least four competing carriers. We are one of three providers in Mexico, with the most significant market share controlled by Am rica M vil. We may experience significant competition from companies that provide similar services using other communications technologies and services. While some of these technologies and services are now operational, others are being developed or may be developed. We compete for customers based principally on service/device offerings, price, call quality, coverage area and customer service.

Our subsidiaries providing communications and digital entertainment   services will face continued competitive pressure in 2016 from multiple providers, including wireless, satellite, cable and other VoIP providers, online video providers, and interexchange carriers and resellers. In addition, the desire for high-speed data on demand, including video, and lingering economic sluggishness are continuing to lead customers to terminate their traditional wired services and use our or competitors' wireless, satellite and Internet-based services. In most markets, we compete for customers, often on pricing of bundled services, with large cable companies, such as Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications Inc. and Time Warner Cable Inc., for high-speed Internet, video and voice services and other smaller telecommunications companies for both long-distance and local services. In addition, in Latin American countries served by our DIRECTV subsidiary, we also face competition from other video providers, including Am rica M vil and Telef nica.

Our Entertainment Group and Business Solutions segments generally remain subject to regulation for certain legacy wireline wholesale services by state regulatory commissions for intrastate services and by the FCC for interstate services. Under the Telecom Act, companies seeking to interconnect to our networks and exchange local calls enter into interconnection agreements with us. Any unresolved issues in negotiating those agreements are subject to arbitration before the appropriate state commission. These agreements (whether fully agreed-upon or arbitrated) are then subject to review and approval by the appropriate state commission.

Our Entertainment Group and Business Solutions segments operate portions of their business under state-specific forms of regulation for retail services that were either legislatively enacted or authorized by the appropriate state regulatory commission. Most states deregulate the competitive services; impose price caps for some services where the prices for these services are not tied to the cost of providing the services or to rate-of-return requirements; or adopt a regulatory framework that incorporates deregulation and price caps. Some states may impose minimum customer service standards with required payments if we fail to meet the standards.

We continue to lose legacy voice and data   subscribers due to competitors (e.g., wireless, cable and VoIP providers) who can provide comparable services at lower prices because they are not subject to traditional telephone industry regulation (or the extent of regulation is in dispute), utilize different technologies, or promote a different business model (such as advertising based). In response to these competitive pressures, for a number of years we have used a bundling strategy that rewards customers who consolidate their services (e.g., telephone, high-speed Internet, wireless and video) with us. We continue to focus on bundling services, including combined packages of wireless data and voice and video service. We will continue to develop innovative and integrated services that capitalize on our wireless and IP-based network and satellites.

Additionally, we provide local and interstate telephone and switched services to other service providers, primarily large Internet Service Providers using the largest class of nationwide Internet networks (Internet backbone), wireless carriers, other telephone companies, cable companies and systems integrators. These services are subject to additional competitive pressures from the development of new technologies, the introduction of innovative offerings and increasing satellite, wireless, fiber-optic and cable transmission capacity for services. We face a number of international competitors, including Orange Business Services, British Telecom, Singapore Telecommunications Limited and Verizon Communications Inc., as well as competition from a number of large systems integrators, such as HP Enterprise Services.

20

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND STANDARDS

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   Because of the size of the financial statement line items they relate to or the extent of judgment required by our management, some of our accounting policies and estimates have a more significant impact on our consolidated financial statements than others. The following policies are presented in the order in which the topics appear in our consolidated statements of income.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   We record expense to maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses that result from the failure or inability of our customers to make required payments. When determining the allowance, we consider the probability of recoverability based on past experience, taking into account current collection trends as well as general economic factors, including bankruptcy rates. Credit risks are assessed based on historical write-offs, net of recoveries, as well as an analysis of the aged accounts and installment receivable balances with reserves generally increasing as the receivable ages. Accounts receivable may be fully reserved for when specific collection issues are known to exist, such as pending bankruptcy or catastrophes. The analysis of receivables is performed monthly, and the allowances for doubtful accounts are adjusted through expense accordingly. A 10% change in the amounts estimated to be uncollectible would result in a change in the provision for uncollectible accounts of approximately $142.

Pension and Postretirement Benefits   Our actuarial estimates of retiree benefit expense and the associated significant weighted-average assumptions are discussed in Note 12. Our assumed discount rate for pension and postretirement benefits of 4.60% and 4.50%, respectively, at December 31, 2015, reflects the hypothetical rate at which the projected benefit obligations could be effectively settled or paid out to participants. We determined our discount rate based on a range of factors, including a yield curve composed of the rates of return on several hundred high-quality, fixed income corporate bonds available at the measurement date and the related expected duration for the obligations. These bonds were all rated at least Aa3 or AA- by one of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, denominated in U.S. dollars, and neither callable, convertible nor index linked. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we increased our pension discount rate by 0.30%, resulting in a decrease in our pension plan benefit obligation of $1,977 and increased our postretirement discount rate by 0.30%, resulting in a decrease in our postretirement benefit obligation of $854. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we decreased our pension discount rate by 0.70%, resulting in an increase in our pension plan benefit obligation of $4,854 and decreased our postretirement discount rate 0.80%, resulting in an increase in our postretirement benefit obligation of $2,786.

Our expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets is 7.75% for 2016 and 2015. Our expected long-term rate of return on postretirement plan assets is 5.75% for 2016 and 2015. Our expected return on plan assets is calculated using the actual fair value of plan assets. If all other factors were to remain unchanged, we expect that a 0.50% decrease in the expected long-term rate of return would cause 2016 combined pension and postretirement cost to increase $232, which under our accounting policy would be adjusted to actual returns in the current year as part of our fourth-quarter remeasurement of our retiree benefit plans. In 2015, the actual return on our combined pension and postretirement plan assets was 1.3%, resulting in an actuarial loss of $3,070.

21

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We recognize gains and losses on pension and postretirement plan assets and obligations immediately in our operating results. These gains and losses are generally measured annually as of December 31 and accordingly will normally be recorded during the fourth quarter, unless an earlier remeasurement is required. Should actual experience differ from actuarial assumptions, the projected pension benefit obligation and net pension cost and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and postretirement benefit cost would be affected in future years. Note 12 also discusses the effects of certain changes in assumptions related to medical trend rates on retiree healthcare costs.

Depreciation   Our depreciation of assets, including use of composite group depreciation and estimates of useful lives, is described in Notes 1 and 6. We assign useful lives based on periodic studies of actual asset lives. During 2014, we completed studies evaluating the periods that we were utilizing our software assets, which resulted in our extending our estimated useful lives for certain capitalized software to five years to better reflect the estimated periods during which these assets will remain in service, which is also consistent with the estimated useful lives used in the industry. Prior to 2014, all capitalized software costs were primarily amortized over a three-year period.

If all other factors were to remain unchanged, we expect that a one-year increase in the useful lives of our plant in service would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $3,550 in our 2015 depreciation expense and that a one-year decrease would have resulted in an increase of approximately $4,886 in our 2015 depreciation expense.

Asset Valuations and Impairments   We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The estimated fair values of intangible assets acquired are based on the expected discounted cash flows of the identified customer relationships, patents, trade names, orbital slots and wireless licenses (spectrum). In determining the future cash flows, we consider demand, competition and other economic factors.

Customer relationships, which are finite-lived intangible assets, are primarily amortized using the sum-of-the-months-digits method of amortization over the period in which those relationships are expected to contribute to our future cash flows. The sum-of-the-months-digits method is a process of allocation and reflects our belief that we expect greater revenue generation from these customer relationships during the earlier periods after acquisition. Amortization of other intangibles, including patents and certain trade names, is determined using the straight-line method of amortization over the expected remaining useful lives or specified contractual terms.

Goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized but tested at least annually for impairment. We conduct our impairment tests as of October 1. We test goodwill on a reporting unit basis, and some reporting units coincide with our segments, while others are one level below our segments. If, due to changes in how we manage the business, we move a portion of a reporting unit to another reporting unit, we determine the amount of goodwill to reallocate to the new reporting unit based on the relative fair value of the portion of the business moved and the portion of the business remaining in the reporting unit. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step involves determining the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing that measurement to the book value. If the fair value exceeds the book value, then no further testing is required. If the fair value is less than the book value (i.e., an indication of impairment exists), then we perform the second step.

In the second step, we determine the fair values of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including those that may not be currently recorded. The difference between the sum of all of those fair values and the overall reporting unit's fair value is a new implied goodwill amount, which we compare to the recorded goodwill. If implied goodwill is less than the recorded goodwill, then we record an impairment of the recorded goodwill. The amount of this impairment may be more or less than the difference between the overall fair value and book value of the reporting unit. It may even be zero if the fair values of other assets are less than their book values.

As shown in Note 7, all of our goodwill resides in the Business Solutions, Entertainment Group, Consumer Mobility and International segments. For each of the reporting units in those segments, we assess their fair values using an income approach (also known as a discounted cash flow) and a market multiple approach. The income approach utilizes a 10-year cash flow projection with a perpetuity value discounted using an appropriate weighted average cost of capital rate for each reporting unit. The market multiple approach uses a multiple of a company's EBITDA. We determined the multiples of the publicly traded companies whose services are comparable to those offered by the reporting unit and then calculated a weighted-average of those multiples. Using those weighted averages, we then calculated fair values for each of those reporting units. In 2015, the calculated fair value of the reporting unit exceeded book value in all circumstances, and no additional testing was necessary. In the event of a 10% drop in the fair values of the reporting units, the fair values would have still exceeded the book values of the reporting units, and additional testing would still have not been necessary.

22

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Wireless licenses (spectrum) in the U.S. are tested for impairment on an aggregate basis, consistent with use of the licenses to support the Business Solutions and Consumer Mobility segments on a national scope. As in prior years, we performed our test of the fair values of licenses using a discounted cash flow model (the Greenfield Approach). We also corroborated the value of wireless licenses with a market approach as the AWS-3 auction provided market price information for national wireless licenses. The Greenfield Approach assumes a company initially owns only the wireless licenses, and then makes investments required to build an operation comparable to the one that currently utilizes the licenses. We utilized a 17-year discrete period to isolate cash flows attributable to the licenses, including modeling the hypothetical build-out. The projected cash flows are based on certain financial factors, including revenue growth rates, EBITDA margins and churn rates. For impairment testing purposes, we assumed wireless revenue growth to trend up from our 2015 decline of 0.4% to a long-term growth rate that reflects expected long-term inflation trends. We assumed our churn rates will increase in 2016 from our rate of 1.39% in 2015, in line with expected trends in the U.S. industry but at a rate comparable with industry-leading churn. EBITDA margins were assumed to trend toward 40% annually, and EBITDA service margins were assumed to continue to trend to at least 40% annually.

This model then incorporates cash flow assumptions regarding investment in the network, development of distribution channels and the subscriber base, and other inputs for making the business operational. We based the assumptions on a combination of average marketplace participant data and our historical results, trends and business plans. We also used operating metrics such as capital investment per subscriber, acquisition costs per subscriber, minutes of use per subscriber, etc., to develop the projected cash flows. Since we included the cash flows associated with these other inputs in the annual cash flow projections, the present value of the unlevered free cash flows of the segment, after investment in the network, subscribers, etc., is attributable to the wireless licenses. The terminal value of the segment, which incorporates an assumed sustainable growth rate, is also discounted and is likewise attributed to the licenses. We used a discount rate of 8.25%, based on the optimal long-term capital structure of a market participant and its associated cost of debt and equity, to calculate the present value of the projected cash flows. This discount rate is also consistent with rates we use to calculate the present value of the projected cash flows of licenses acquired from third parties.

If either the projected rate of long-term growth of cash flows or revenues declined by 0.5%, or if the discount rate increased by 0.5%, the fair values of the wireless licenses, while less than currently projected, would still be higher than the book value of the licenses. The fair value of the licenses exceeded the book value by more than 10%.

We review customer relationships and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable over the remaining life of the asset or asset group. To determine that the asset is recoverable, we verify that the expected undiscounted future cash flows directly related to that asset exceed its book value.

We evaluate our investments to determine whether market declines are temporary and accordingly reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income, or other-than-temporary and recorded as an expense in "Other income (expense)   net" in the consolidated statements of income. This evaluation is based on the length of time and the severity of decline in the investment's value. In 2014, we identified an immaterial other-than-temporary decline in the value of equity method investments and various cost investments.

Income Taxes   Our estimates of income taxes and the significant items giving rise to the deferred assets and liabilities are shown in Note 11 and reflect our assessment of actual future taxes to be paid on items reflected in the financial statements, giving consideration to both timing and probability of these estimates. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law or the final review of our tax returns by federal, state or foreign tax authorities.

We use our judgment to determine whether it is more likely than not that we will sustain positions that we have taken on tax returns and, if so, the amount of benefit to initially recognize within our financial statements. We regularly review our uncertain tax positions and adjust our unrecognized tax benefits (UTBs) in light of changes in facts and circumstances, such as changes in tax law, interactions with taxing authorities and developments in case law. These adjustments to our UTBs may affect our income tax expense. Settlement of uncertain tax positions may require use of our cash.

23

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

New Accounting Standards

See Note 1 for a discussion of recently issued or adopted accounting standards.

OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS

DIRECTV   In July 2015, we completed our acquisition of DIRECTV, a leading provider of digital television entertainment services in both the United States and Latin America. The acquisition gives us a unique and complementary set of assets and the opportunity to achieve substantial cost synergies over time, as well as increasing revenue from bundling and integrating services. Our distribution scale enables us to offer consumers attractive combinations of video, high-speed broadband and mobile services, using all the sales channels of both companies. We believe the combined company will be a content distribution leader across mobile, video and broadband platforms.

Under the merger agreement, each share of DIRECTV stock was exchanged for $28.50 cash plus 1.892 shares of our common stock. After adjustment for shares issued to trusts consolidated by AT T, stock based payment arrangements and fractional shares, which were settled in cash, AT T issued 954,407,524 shares to DIRECTV shareholders, giving them an approximate 16% stake in the combined company, based on common shares outstanding. Based on our $34.29 per share closing stock price on July 24, 2015, the aggregate value of consideration paid to DIRECTV shareholders was $47,409, including $32,727 of AT T stock and $14,378 in cash, $299 for share-based payment arrangements and $5 for DIRECTV shares previously purchased on the open market by trusts consolidated by AT T.

The FCC approved the transaction subject to the following conditions:

Fiber to the Premises Deployment   Within four years, we will offer our all-fiber Internet access service to at least 12.5 million customer locations such as residences, home offices and very small businesses. Combined with our existing high-speed broadband network, at least 25.7 million customer locations will have access to broadband speeds of 45Mbps or higher by the end of the four-year build. While the addition of medium and large businesses do not count towards the commitments, we will have the opportunity to provide services to those customers as part of this expansion. In addition, we will offer 1 Gbps fiber Internet access service pursuant to applicable E-rate rules to any eligible school or library requesting that service within or contiguous to our all-fiber footprint.

Discounted Broadband Services Program   Within our 21-state area, we will offer a discounted fixed broadband service to low-income households that qualify for the government's Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. In locations where it is available, service with speeds of at least 10Mbps will be offered for ten dollars per month. Elsewhere, 5Mbps service will be offered for ten dollars per month or, in some locations, 3Mbps service will be offered for five dollars per month.

Non-Discriminatory Usage-Based Practices   We are required to refrain from using usage-based allowances or other retail terms and conditions on our fixed broadband Internet access service, as defined in the order, to discriminate in favor of our own online video services. We can and will continue to offer discounts on integrated bundles of our video and fixed broadband services.

Internet Interconnection Disclosure Requirements   We will submit to the FCC new interconnection agreements we enter into with peering networks and with "on-net" customers that purchase Managed Internet Service to exchange Internet traffic with other AT T customers. We will develop, together with an independent expert, a methodology for measuring the performance of our Internet traffic exchange and regularly report these metrics to the FCC.

Compliance Program and Reporting   We have appointed a Company Compliance Officer to develop and implement a plan to ensure compliance with these merger conditions. We will engage an independent, third-party compliance officer to evaluate the plan and our implementation. Both AT T and the independent compliance officer will submit periodic reports to the FCC.

The conditions will remain in effect for four years from July 24, 2015. A condition may be extended once for two years if the FCC makes a formal finding that we have violated the condition in whole or in part.

Litigation Challenging DIRECTV's NFL Sunday Ticket   More than a dozen putative class actions have been filed in the U.S. District Courts for the Central District of California and the Southern District of New York against DIRECTV and the National Football League (NFL) alleging that the NFL and DIRECTV violated federal antitrust law in connection with the NFL Sunday Ticket package. Among other things, the complaints allege that plaintiffs have been overcharged for the televised presentation of out-of-market NFL games due to DIRECTV's exclusive agreement with the NFL to broadcast out-of-market games through the Sunday Ticket package. The complaints seek unspecified treble damages and attorneys' fees along with injunctive relief. The first complaint, Abrahamian v. National Football League, Inc., et al., was served in June 2015. In December 2015, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred the cases outside the Central District of California to that court for consolidation and management of pre-trial proceedings. We vigorously dispute the allegations the complaints have asserted.

24

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Federal Trade Commission Litigation Involving DIRECTV  In March 2015, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) filed a civil suit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against DIRECTV seeking injunctive relief and unspecified money damages under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act and Section 4 of the Restore Online Shoppers' Confidence Act. The FTC's allegations concern DIRECTV's advertising, marketing and sale of programming packages. The FTC alleges that DIRECTV did not adequately disclose all relevant terms. We are disputing these allegations vigorously.

Unlimited Data Plan Claims   In October 2014, the FTC filed a civil suit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against AT T Mobility, LLC seeking injunctive relief and unspecified money damages under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. The FTC's allegations concern AT T's Maximum Bit Rate (MBR) program, which temporarily reduces the download speeds of a small portion of our legacy Unlimited Data Plan customers each month. MBR is an industry-standard practice that is designed to affect only the most data-intensive applications (such as video streaming). Texts, emails, tweets, social media posts, Internet browsing and many other applications are typically unaffected. Contrary to the FTC's allegations, which we vigorously dispute, our MBR program is permitted by our customer contracts, was fully disclosed in advance to our Unlimited Data Plan customers, and was implemented to protect the network for the benefit of all customers. In March 2015, our motion to dismiss the litigation on the grounds that the FTC lacked jurisdiction to file suit was denied. In May 2015, the Court granted our motion to certify its decision for immediate appeal. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit subsequently granted our petition to accept the appeal, and the appeal is now pending before that Court while limited discovery proceeds in the District Court. In addition to the FTC case, several class actions have been filed also challenging our MBR program. We vigorously dispute the allegations the complaints have asserted.

On June 17, 2015, the FCC issued a Notice of Apparent Liability and Order (NAL) to AT T Mobility, LLC concerning our MBR policy that applies to Unlimited Data Plan customers. The NAL alleges that we violated the FCC's Open Internet Transparency Rule by using the term "unlimited" in connection with the offerings subject to the MBR policy and by failing adequately to disclose the speed reductions that apply once a customer reaches a specified data threshold. The NAL proposes a forfeiture penalty of $100, and further proposes to order us to correct any misleading and inaccurate statements about our unlimited plans, inform customers of the alleged violation, revise our disclosures to address the alleged violation and inform these customers that they may cancel their plans without penalty after reviewing the revised disclosures. On July 17, 2015, we filed our response to the NAL. We believe that the NAL is unlawful and should be withdrawn, because we have fully complied with the Open Internet Transparency Rule and the FCC has no authority to impose the proposed remedies. The matter is currently pending before the FCC.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We had $5,121 in cash and cash equivalents available at December 31, 2015. Approximately $807 of our cash and cash equivalents resided in foreign jurisdictions, some of which are subject to restrictions on repatriation. Cash and cash equivalents decreased $3,482 since December 31, 2014. We also had $401 in short-term investments, which we included in "Other current assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. In 2015, cash inflows were primarily provided by cash receipts from operations, including cash from our sale and transfer of certain equipment installment receivables to third parties and long-term debt issuances. These inflows were offset by cash used to meet the needs of the business, including, but not limited to, payment of operating expenses; acquisitions of wireless spectrum, DIRECTV, GSF Telecom Holdings, S.A.P.I. de C.V. (GSF Telecom) and Nextel Mexico; funding capital expenditures; debt repayments; dividends to stockholders; and collateral posting (see Note 9). We discuss many of these factors in detail below.

Cash Provided by or Used in Operating Activities

During 2015, cash provided by operating activities was $35,880, compared to $31,338 in 2014. Higher operating cash flows in 2015 were primarily due to improved operating results, our acquisition of DIRECTV and working capital improvements.

During 2014, cash provided by operating activities was $31,338 compared to $34,796 in 2013. Lower operating cash flows in 2014 were primarily due to wireless device financing   related to AT T Next, which results in cash collection over the installment period instead of at the time of sale, increased inventory levels and retirement benefit funding. Proceeds from the sale of equipment installment receivables and the timing of working capital payments partially offset the decline in operating cash flows.

25

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Cash Used in or Provided by Investing Activities

During 2015, cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of:

$17,740 for acquisitions of spectrum licenses, largely due to the remaining payment for AWS spectrum licenses in the AWS-3 Auction.

$19,218 in capital expenditures, excluding interest during construction.

$13,019 net of cash acquired for the acquisitions of DIRECTV, GSF Telecom, Nextel Mexico and other operations.

During 2015, we also received $1,945 upon the maturity of certain short-term investments and paid $400 for additional short-term investments.

Virtually all of our capital expenditures are spent on our communications networks and our video services and support systems for our digital entertainment services. Capital expenditures, excluding interest during construction, decreased $1,981 from 2014, reflecting the completion of our LTE build and other Project Velocity IP initiatives in 2014. In connection with capital improvements to our wireless network in Mexico, we also negotiated in 2015 favorable payment terms (referred to as vendor financing). In 2015, we deferred $684 of vendor financing related to capital additions to future periods. Capital expenditures also include spending for DIRECTV, GSF Telecom and Nextel Mexico after the acquisition dates. As part of our organizational realignment, we no longer allocate capital expenditures to our segments.

We expect our 2016 capital investment, which includes our capital expenditures plus vendor financing payments related to our Mexico network, for our existing businesses to be in the $22,000 range, and we expect our capital investment to be in the 15 percent range of service revenues or lower from 2016 through 2018. The amount of capital investment is influenced by demand for services and products, capacity needs and network enhancements. We are also focused on ensuring merger commitments are met.

Cash Used in or Provided by Financing Activities

We paid dividends of $10,200 in 2015, $9,552 in 2014, and $9,696 in 2013. The increase in 2015 is primarily due to the increase in shares outstanding resulting from our acquisition of DIRECTV and the increase in the quarterly dividend approved by our Board of Directors in December 2014. The decrease in 2014 reflects the decline in shares outstanding resulting from repurchase activity, partially offset by dividend rate increases. In December 2015, our Board of Directors approved a 2.1% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.47 to $0.48 per share. This follows a 2.2% dividend increase approved by our Board in December 2014. Dividends declared by our Board of Directors totaled $1.89 per share in 2015, $1.85 per share in 2014, and $1.81 per share in 2013. Our dividend policy considers the expectations and requirements of stockholders, capital funding requirements of AT T and long-term growth opportunities. It is our intent to provide the financial flexibility to allow our Board of Directors to consider dividend growth and to recommend an increase in dividends to be paid in future periods. All dividends remain subject to declaration by our Board of Directors.

During 2015, we received net proceeds of $33,969 from the issuance of $34,129 in long-term debt in various markets, with an average weighted maturity of approximately 12 years and a weighted average coupon of 2.7%. Debt issued included:

26

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

During 2015, we redeemed $10,042 in debt, primarily consisting of the following repayments:

Redemption of $902 of various senior notes in connection with the January 2015 GSF Telecom acquisition and April 2015 Nextel Mexico acquisition.

September 2015 prepayment of $1,000 of the outstanding advances under the $2,000 18-month credit agreement (the "18-Month Credit Agreement") by and between AT T and Mizuho. (See the "Credit Facilities" discussion below.)

In 2015, we continued to take advantage of lower market interest rates and undertook several activities related to our long-term debt which caused our weighted average interest rate of our entire long-term debt portfolio, including the impact of derivatives, to decrease from 4.2% at December 31, 2014 to 4.0% at December 31, 2015. We had $124,847 of total notes and debentures outstanding (see Note 9) at December 31, 2015, which included Euro, British pound sterling, Swiss franc, Brazilian real and Canadian dollar denominated debt of approximately $26,221.

On February 9, 2016, we issued $6,000 of long-term debt which included:

At December 31, 2015, we had $7,636 of debt maturing within one year, substantially all of which was related to long-term debt issuances. Debt maturing within one year includes the following notes that may be put back to us by the holders:

$1,000 of annual put reset securities issued by BellSouth Corporation that may be put back to us each April until maturity in 2021.

An accreting zero-coupon note that may be redeemed each May until maturity in 2022. If the zero-coupon note (issued for principal of $500 in 2007) is held to maturity, the redemption amount will be $1,030.

Our Board of Directors has approved repurchase authorizations of 300 million shares each in 2013 and 2014 (see Note 14). For the year ended December 31, 2014, we had repurchased approximately 48 million shares totaling $1,617 under these authorizations and for the year ended December 31, 2015, we had repurchased approximately 8 million shares totaling $269 under these authorizations. At December 31, 2015 we had approximately 407 million shares remaining from the 2013 and 2014 authorizations.

The emphasis of our 2016 financing activities will be the issuance of debt, the payment of dividends, which is subject to approval by our Board of Directors, and the repayment of debt. We plan to fund our financing uses of cash through a combination of cash from operations, debt issuances and asset sales. The timing and mix of debt issuance will be guided by credit market conditions and interest rate trends.

Credit Facilities

On December 11, 2015, we entered into a five-year, $12,000 credit agreement (the "Revolving Credit Agreement") with Citibank, N.A. (Citibank), as administrative agent, replacing our $5,000 credit agreement that would have expired in December 2018. At the same time, AT T and the lenders terminated their obligations under the existing revolving $3,000 credit agreement with Citibank that would have expired in December 2017.

In January 2015, we entered into a $9,155 credit agreement (the "Syndicated Credit Agreement") containing (i) a $6,286 term loan facility (the "Tranche A Facility") and (ii) a $2,869 term loan facility (the "Tranche B Facility"), with certain investment and commercial banks and Mizuho Bank, Ltd. ("Mizuho"), as administrative agent. We also entered into a $2,000 18-month credit agreement (the "18-Month Credit Agreement") with Mizuho as initial lender and agent. On December 11, 2015, AT T amended the Syndicated Credit Agreement and the 18-Month Credit Agreement to, among other things, revise the financial covenant to match the financial covenant in the Revolving Credit Agreement.

27 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Revolving Credit Agreement

In the event advances are made under the Revolving Credit Agreement, those advances would be used for general corporate purposes. Advances are not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse change. All advances must be repaid no later than the date on which lenders are no longer obligated to make any advances under the agreement. We can terminate, in whole or in part, amounts committed by the lenders in excess of any outstanding advances; however, we cannot reinstate any such terminated commitments. We also may request that the total amount of the lender's commitments be increased by an integral multiple of $25 effective on a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled termination date then in effect, provided that no event of default has occurred and in no event shall the total amount of the lender's commitments at any time exceed $14,000. At December 31, 2015, we had no advances outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement and we have complied will all covenants.

The obligations of the lenders to provide advances will terminate on December 11, 2020, unless prior to that date either: (i) AT T reduces to $0 the commitments of the lenders, or (ii) certain events of default occur. We and lenders representing more than 50% of the facility amount may agree to extend their commitments for two one-year periods beyond the December 11, 2020, termination date, under certain circumstances.

Advances under the Revolving Credit Agreement would bear interest, at AT T's option, either:

at a variable annual rate equal to (1) the highest of: (a) the base rate of the bank affiliate of Citibank, N.A. which is serving as administrative agent under the Agreement, (b) 0.50% per annum above the Federal funds rate, and (c) the LIBOR applicable to U.S. dollars for a period of one month plus 1.00% per annum, plus (2) an applicable margin, as set forth in the Revolving Credit Agreement ("Applicable Margin for Base Advances"); or

at a rate equal to: (i) LIBOR for a period of one, two, three or six months, as applicable, plus (ii) the Applicable Margin ("Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances").

The Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances will equal 0.680%, 0.910%, 1.025%, or 1.125% per annum, depending on AT T's credit rating. The Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances will be equal to the greater of 0.00% and the relevant Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances minus 1.00% per annum depending on AT T's credit rating.

We will pay a facility fee of 0.070%, 0.090%, 0.100% or 0.125% per annum, depending on AT T's credit rating, of the amount of lender commitments.

The Revolving Credit Agreement contains covenants that are customary for an issuer with an investment grade senior debt credit rating, as well as a net debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and other modifications described in the Revolving Credit Agreement) financial ratio covenant that AT T will maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of not more than 3.5-to-1.

The Syndicated Credit Agreement

In March 2015, AT T borrowed all amounts available under the Tranche A Facility and the Tranche B Facility. Amounts borrowed under the Tranche A Facility will be due on March 2, 2018. Amounts borrowed under the Tranche B Facility will be subject to amortization from March 2, 2018, with 25 percent of the aggregate principal amount thereof being payable prior to March 2, 2020, and all remaining principal amount due on March 2, 2020.

Advances bear interest at a rate equal to: (i) the LIBOR for deposits in dollars (adjusted upwards to reflect any bank reserve costs) for a period of three or six months, as applicable, plus (ii) the Applicable Margin (each such Advance, a Eurodollar Rate Advance). The Applicable Margin under the Tranche A Facility will equal 1.000%, 1.125% or 1.250% per annum depending on AT T's credit rating. The Applicable Margin under the Tranche B Facility will equal 1.125%, 1.250% or 1.375% per annum, depending on AT T's credit rating.

The Syndicated Credit Agreement contains covenants that are customary for an issuer with an investment grade senior debt credit rating. Among other things, the Syndicated Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a net debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and other modifications described in the Syndicated Credit Agreement) ratio of not more than 3.5-to-1, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter.

Events of default are customary for an agreement of this nature and result in the acceleration or permit the lenders to accelerate, as applicable, required payment and which would increase the Applicable Margin by 2.00% per annum.

28

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The 18-Month Credit Agreement

In March 2015, AT T borrowed all amounts available under the 18-Month Credit Agreement. Amounts borrowed under the 18-Month Credit Agreement will be due and payable on September 2, 2016. In September 2015, we partially repaid the amount borrowed.

Advances bear interest at a rate equal to: (i) the LIBOR for deposits in dollars (adjusted upwards to reflect any bank reserve costs) for a period of one, two, three or six months, as applicable, plus (ii) the Applicable Margin (each such Advance, a Eurodollar Rate Advance). The Applicable Margin will equal 0.800%, 0.900% or 1.000% per annum, depending on AT T's credit rating. In the event that AT T's unsecured senior long-term debt ratings are split by S P, Moody's and Fitch, then the Applicable Margin will be determined by the highest rating, unless the lowest of such ratings is more than one level below the highest of such ratings, in which case the pricing will be the rating that is one level above the lowest of such ratings.

The 18-Month Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants and events of default equivalent to those contained in the Syndicated Credit Agreement.

Collateral Arrangements

During 2015, we posted $2,288 of additional cash collateral, on a net basis, to banks and other participants in our derivative arrangements. Cash postings under these arrangements vary with changes in credit ratings and netting agreements. (See Note 10)

Other

Our total capital consists of debt (long-term debt and debt maturing within one year) and stockholders' equity. Our capital structure does not include debt issued by our equity method investments. At December 31, 2015, our debt ratio was 50.5%, compared to 47.5% at December 31, 2014, and 44.1% at December 31, 2013. The debt ratio is affected by the same factors that affect total capital, and reflects the debt issued and acquired in 2015 and our issuance of treasury shares of AT T common stock, and debt redemptions during 2015. Total capital increased $77,687 in 2015 compared to an increase of $2,905 in 2014. The 2015 capital increase was primarily due to use of treasury stock to acquire DIRECTV and an increase in debt balances, partially offset by a decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income due to foreign currency translation adjustments.

A significant amount of our cash outflows are related to tax items and benefits paid for current and former employees. Total taxes incurred, collected and remitted by AT T during 2015, 2014, and 2013 were $21,501, $20,870 and $21,004. These taxes include income, franchise, property, sales, excise, payroll, gross receipts and various other taxes and fees. Total health and welfare benefits provided to certain active and retired employees and their dependents totaled $4,625 in 2015, with $1,239 paid from plan assets. Of those benefits, $3,749 related to medical and prescription drug benefits. During 2015, we paid $4,681 of pension benefits out of plan assets.

During 2015, we also received approximately $4,534 from monetization of various assets, primarily from our sales of certain equipment installment receivables and real estate holdings. We plan to continue to explore monetization opportunities in 2016.

In September 2013, we made a voluntary contribution of a preferred equity interest in AT T Mobility II LLC (Mobility), the holding company for our wireless business, to the trust used to pay pension benefits under our qualified pension plans. In September 2013, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) published a proposed exemption that authorized retroactive approval of this voluntary contribution. In July 2014, the DOL published in the Federal Register their final retroactive approval of our voluntary contribution.

The preferred equity interest had a fair value of $8,714 at December 31, 2015 and $9,104 on the contribution date and has a liquidation value of $8,000. The trust is entitled to receive cumulative cash distributions of $560 per annum, which are distributed quarterly in equal amounts and accounted for as contributions. We distributed $560 to the trust during 2015. So long as we make the distributions, we will have no limitations on our ability to declare a dividend or repurchase shares. This preferred equity interest is a plan asset under ERISA and is recognized as such in the plan's separate financial statements. However, because the preferred equity interest is not unconditionally transferable to an unrelated party, it is not reflected in plan assets in our consolidated financial statements and instead has been eliminated in consolidation. We also agreed to make a cash contribution to the trust of $175 no later than the due date of our federal income tax return for 2014, 2015 and 2016. The 2014 contribution of $175 was made to the trust during the second quarter of 2015. We are required to contribute another $175 in 2016 and $175 in 2017.

29

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The preferred equity interest is not transferable by the trust except through its put and call features. After a period of five years from the contribution or, if earlier, the date upon which the pension plan trust is fully funded as determined under GAAP, AT T has a right to purchase from the pension plan trust some or all the preferred equity interest at the greater of their fair market value or minimum liquidation value plus any unpaid cumulative dividends. In addition, AT T will have the right to purchase the preferred equity interest in the event AT T's ownership of Mobility is less than 50% or there is a transaction that results in the transfer of 50% or more of the pension plan trust's assets to an entity not under common control with AT T (collectively, a change of control). The pension plan trust has the right to require AT T to purchase the preferred equity interest at the greater of their fair market value or minimum liquidation value plus any unpaid cumulative dividends, and in installments, as specified in the contribution agreement upon the occurrence of any of the following: (1) at any time if the ratio of debt to total capitalization of Mobility exceeds that of AT T, (2) the date on which AT T is rated below investment grade for two consecutive calendar quarters, (3) upon a change of control if AT T does not exercise its purchase option, or (4) at any time after a seven-year period from the contribution date. In the event AT T elects or is required to purchase the preferred equity interest, AT T may elect to settle the purchase price in cash or shares of AT T common stock or a combination thereof.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Current accounting standards require us to disclose our material obligations and commitments to making future payments under contracts, such as debt and lease agreements, and under contingent commitments, such as debt guarantees. We occasionally enter into third-party debt guarantees, but they are not, nor are they reasonably likely to become, material. We disclose our contractual long-term debt repayment obligations in Note 9 and our operating lease payments in Note 6. Our contractual obligations do not include contributions associated with our voluntary contribution of the Mobility preferred equity interest, or expected pension and postretirement payments (we maintain pension funds and Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trusts to fully or partially fund these benefits) (see Note 12). In the ordinary course of business, we routinely enter into commercial commitments for various aspects of our operations, such as fixed assets, inventory and office supplies. However, we do not believe that the commitments will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015, are in the following table. The purchase obligations that follow are those for which we have guaranteed funds and will be funded with cash provided by operations or through incremental borrowings. The minimum commitment for certain obligations is based on termination penalties that could be paid to exit the contract. Other long-term liabilities are included in the table based on the year of required payment or an estimate of the year of payment. Such estimate of payment is based on a review of past trends for these items, as well as a forecast of future activities. Certain items were excluded from the following table, as the year of payment is unknown and could not be reliably estimated since past trends were not deemed to be an indicator of future payment.

Substantially all of our purchase obligations are in our Business Solutions, Entertainment Group, and the Consumer Mobility segments. The table does not include the fair value of our interest rate swaps. Our capital lease obligations and vendor financing have been excluded from the table due to the insignificant amounts of such obligations at December 31, 2015. Many of our other noncurrent liabilities have been excluded from the following table due to the uncertainty of the timing of payments, combined with the absence of historical trending to be used as a predictor of such payments. Additionally, certain other long-term liabilities have been excluded since settlement of such liabilities will not require the use of cash. Our other long-term liabilities are: deferred income taxes (see Note 11) of $56,181; postemployment benefit obligations of $34,262; and other noncurrent liabilities of $22,258.

30

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. These risks, along with other business risks, impact our cost of capital. It is our policy to manage our debt structure and foreign exchange exposure in order to manage capital costs, control financial risks and maintain financial flexibility over the long term. In managing market risks, we employ derivatives according to documented policies and procedures, including interest rate swaps, interest rate locks, foreign currency exchange contracts and combined interest rate foreign currency contracts (cross-currency swaps). We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. We do not foresee significant changes in the strategies we use to manage market risk in the near future.

Interest Rate Risk

The majority of our financial instruments are medium- and long-term fixed-rate notes and debentures. Changes in interest rates can lead to significant fluctuations in the fair value of these instruments. The principal amounts by expected maturity, average interest rate and fair value of our liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk are described in Notes 9 and 10. In managing interest expense, we control our mix of fixed and floating rate debt, principally through the use of interest rate swaps. We have established interest rate risk limits that we closely monitor by measuring interest rate sensitivities in our debt and interest rate derivatives portfolios.

Most of our foreign-denominated long-term debt has been swapped from fixed-rate or floating-rate foreign currencies to fixed-rate U.S. dollars at issuance through cross-currency swaps, removing interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the underlying interest and principal payments. Likewise, periodically we enter into interest rate locks to partially hedge the risk of increases in the benchmark interest rate during the period leading up to the probable issuance of fixed-rate debt. We expect gains or losses in our cross-currency swaps and interest rate locks to offset the losses and gains in the financial instruments they hedge.

Following are our interest rate derivatives subject to material interest rate risk as of December 31, 2015. The interest rates illustrated below refer to the average rates we expect to pay based on current and implied forward rates and the average rates we expect to receive based on derivative contracts. The notional amount is the principal amount of the debt subject to the interest rate swap contracts. The fair value asset (liability) represents the amount we would receive (pay) if we had exited the contracts as of December 31, 2015.

31

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Foreign Exchange Risk

We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk through our foreign affiliates and equity investments in foreign companies. We do not hedge foreign currency translation risk in the net assets and income we report from these sources. However, we do hedge a portion of the exchange risk involved in anticipation of highly probable foreign currency-denominated transactions and cash flow streams, such as those related to issuing foreign-denominated debt, receiving dividends from foreign investments, and other receipts and disbursements.

Through cross-currency swaps, most of our foreign-denominated debt has been swapped from fixed-rate or floating-rate foreign currencies to fixed-rate U.S. dollars at issuance, removing interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the underlying interest and principal payments. We expect gains or losses in our cross-currency swaps to offset the losses and gains in the financial instruments they hedge.

In anticipation of other foreign currency-denominated transactions, we often enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to provide currency at a fixed rate. Our policy is to measure the risk of adverse currency fluctuations by calculating the potential dollar losses resulting from changes in exchange rates that have a reasonable probability of occurring. We cover the exposure that results from changes that exceed acceptable amounts.

For the purpose of assessing specific risks, we use a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair value of our financial instruments and results of operations. To perform the sensitivity analysis, we assess the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of a hypothetical 10% fluctuation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies from the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates, assuming no change in interest rates. We have foreign exchange forward contracts, maturing on February 25, 2016, held by our GSF Telecom and Nextel Mexico subsidiaries (AT T Telecom Holdings S. de R.L. de C.V.   AT T Comunicaciones Digitales S. de R.L. de C.V.).

32

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH

The comparison above assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2010, in AT T common stock, Standard   Poor's 500 Index (S P 500), and Standard   Poor's 500 Integrated Telecom Index (S P 500 Integrated Telecom). Total return equals stock price appreciation plus reinvestment of dividends.

33 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

RISK FACTORS

In addition to the other information set forth in this document, including the matters contained under the caption "Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements," you should carefully read the matters described below. We believe that each of these matters could materially affect our business. We recognize that most of these factors are beyond our ability to control and therefore we cannot predict an outcome. Accordingly, we have organized them by first addressing general factors, then industry factors and, finally, items specifically applicable to us.

The current U.S. economy has changed our customers' buying habits and a failure to adequately respond could materially adversely affect our business.

We provide services and products predominantly to consumers and large and small businesses in the United States. We also provide services to larger businesses throughout the world. The current uneven economic recovery in the United States continues to pressure some of our customers' demand for and ability to pay for existing services, especially wired services, including video, and their interest in purchasing new services. Customers are changing their buying habits in response to both ongoing economic conditions and technological advances. Should we fail to respond promptly to address these changes in customer demands, we are likely to experience greater pressure on pricing and margins as we continue to compete for customers who would have even less discretionary income.

Adverse changes in medical costs and the U.S. securities markets and a decline in interest rates could materially increase our benefit plan costs.

Our costs to provide current benefits and funding for future benefits are subject to increases, primarily due to continuing increases in medical and prescription drug costs, and can be affected by lower returns on funds held by our pension and other benefit plans, which are reflected in our financial statements for that year. Investment returns on these funds depend largely on trends in the U.S. securities markets and the U.S. economy. We have experienced historically low interest rates during the last several years. While annual market returns and increased volatility have pressured asset returns in the short-term, we expect long-term market returns to stabilize. During 2015, the overall bond rates increased, which results in lower benefit obligations. In calculating the costs included on our financial statements of providing benefits under our plans, we have made certain assumptions regarding future investment returns, medical costs and interest rates. While we have made some changes to the benefit plans to limit our risk from increasing medical costs, if actual investment returns, medical costs and interest rates are worse than those previously assumed, our costs will increase.

The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires companies to recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in our statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur. We have elected to reflect the annual adjustments to the funded status in our consolidated statement of income. Therefore, an increase in our costs or adverse market conditions will have a negative effect on our operating results.

Adverse changes in global financial markets could limit our ability and our larger customers' ability to access capital or increase the cost of capital needed to fund business operations.

While the global financial markets were generally stable during 2015, a continuing uncertainty surrounding global growth rates has resulted in increasing volatility in the credit, currency, equity and fixed income markets. Volatility in some areas, such as in emerging markets, may affect companies' access to the credit markets, leading to higher borrowing costs for companies or, in some cases, the inability of these companies to fund their ongoing operations. In addition, we contract with large financial institutions to support our own treasury operations, including contracts to hedge our exposure on interest rates and foreign exchange and the funding of credit lines and other short-term debt obligations, including commercial paper. These financial institutions also face stricter capital-related and other regulations in the United States and Europe, as well as ongoing legal and financial issues concerning their loan portfolios, which may hamper their ability to provide credit or raise the cost of providing such credit. A company's cost of borrowing is also affected by evaluations given by various credit rating agencies and these agencies have been applying tighter credit standards when evaluating a company's debt levels and future growth prospects. While we have been successful in continuing to access the credit and fixed income markets when needed, adverse changes in the financial markets could render us either unable to access these markets or able to access these markets only at higher interest costs and with restrictive financial or other conditions, severely affecting our business operations.

34

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Changes in available technology could increase competition and our capital costs.

The communications and digital entertainment industry has experienced rapid changes in the past several years. The development of wireless, cable and IP technologies has significantly increased the commercial viability of alternatives to traditional wired service and enhanced the capabilities of wireless networks. In addition, our customers continue to increase demand for services that can be accessed on mobile devices, especially video services. While our customers can use their traditional video subscription to access mobile programming, an increasing number of customers are also using mobile devices as the sole means of viewing video and an increasing number of non-traditional video providers are developing content and technologies to satisfy that demand. In order to remain competitive, we continue to deploy the sophisticated wired and wireless networks, including satellites, as well as research other new technologies. If the new technologies we have adopted or on which we have focused our research efforts fail to be cost-effective and accepted by customers, our ability to remain competitive could be materially adversely affected.

Changes to federal, state and foreign government regulations and decisions in regulatory proceedings could further increase our operating costs and/or alter customer perceptions of our operations, which could materially adversely affect us.

Our subsidiaries providing wired services are subject to significant federal and state regulation while many of our competitors are not. In addition, our subsidiaries and affiliates operating outside the United States are also subject to the jurisdiction of national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is provided. Our wireless and satellite video subsidiaries are regulated to varying degrees by the FCC and some state and local agencies. Adverse regulations and rulings by the FCC relating to broadband and satellite video issues could impede our ability to manage our networks and recover costs and lessen incentives to invest in our networks. The development of new technologies, such as IP-based services, also has created or potentially could create conflicting regulation between the FCC and various state and local authorities, which may involve lengthy litigation to resolve and may result in outcomes unfavorable to us. In addition, increased public focus on a variety of issues related to our operations, such as privacy issues, government requests or orders for customer data, and potential global climate changes, have led to proposals at state, federal and foreign government levels to change or increase regulation on our operations. Should customers decide that our competitors operate in a more customer-friendly environment, we could be materially adversely affected.

Continuing growth in our wireless services will depend on continuing access to adequate spectrum, deployment of new technology and offering attractive services to customers.

The wireless industry is undergoing rapid and significant technological changes and a dramatic increase in usage, in particular demand for and usage of data, video and other non-voice services. We must continually invest in our wireless network in order to continually improve our wireless service to meet this increasing demand and remain competitive. Improvements in our service depend on many factors, including continued access to and deployment of adequate spectrum. We must maintain and expand our network capacity and coverage as well as the associated wireline network needed to transport voice and data between cell sites. To this end, we have participated in spectrum auctions, at increasing financial cost, and continue to deploy technology advancements in order to further improve network quality and the efficient use of our spectrum.

Network service enhancements and product launches may not occur as scheduled or at the cost expected due to many factors, including delays in determining equipment and handset operating standards, supplier delays, increases in network equipment and handset component costs, regulatory permitting delays for tower sites or enhancements or labor-related delays. Deployment of new technology also may adversely affect the performance of the network for existing services. If the FCC does not fairly allocate sufficient spectrum to allow the wireless industry in general, and the Company in particular, to increase its capacity or if we cannot acquire needed spectrum or deploy the services customers desire on a timely basis without burdensome conditions or at adequate cost while maintaining network quality levels, then our ability to attract and retain customers, and therefore maintain and improve our operating margins, could be materially adversely affected.

Increasing competition for wireless customers could materially adversely affect our operating results.

We have multiple wireless competitors in each of our service areas and compete for customers based principally on service/device offerings, price, call quality, coverage area and customer service. In addition, we are facing growing competition from providers offering services using alternative wireless technologies and IP-based networks as well as traditional wireline networks. We expect market saturation to continue to cause the wireless industry's customer growth rate to moderate in comparison with historical growth rates, leading to increased competition for customers. We also expect that our customers' growing demand for data services will place constraints on our network capacity. This competition and our capacity issues will continue to put pressure on pricing and margins as companies compete for potential customers. Our ability to respond will depend, among other things, on continued improvement in network quality and customer service and effective marketing of attractive products and services, and cost management. These efforts will involve significant expenses and require strategic management decisions on, and timely implementation of, equipment choices, network deployment and management, and service offerings.

35

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Increasing costs to provide services could adversely affect operating margins.

Our operating costs, including customer acquisition and retention costs could continue to put pressure on margins and customer retention levels. In addition, virtually all our video programming is provided by other companies and historically the rates they charge us for programming have often increased more than the rate of inflation. We are attempting to use our increased scale and access to wireless customers to change this trend but such negotiations are difficult and also may result in programming disruption. If we are unable to restrain these costs or provide programming desired by our customers it could impact margins and our ability to attract and retain customers.

A number of our competitors that rely on alternative technologies (e.g., wireless, cable and VoIP) and business models (e.g., advertising-supported) are typically subject to less (or no) regulation than our subsidiaries and therefore are able to operate with lower costs. In addition, these competitors generally can focus on discrete customer segments since they do not have regulatory obligations to provide universal service. These competitors also have cost advantages compared to us, due in part to operating on newer, more technically advanced and lower-cost networks and a nonunionized workforce, lower employee benefits and fewer retirees (as most of the competitors are relatively new companies). To this end, we have begun initiatives at both the state and federal levels to obtain regulatory approvals, where needed, to transition services from our older copper-based network to an advanced IP-based network. If we do not obtain regulatory approvals for our network transition or obtain approvals with onerous conditions attached we could experience significant cost and competitive disadvantages.

Unfavorable litigation or governmental investigation results could require us to pay significant amounts or lead to onerous operating procedures.

We are subject to a number of lawsuits both in the United States and in foreign countries, including, at any particular time, claims relating to antitrust; patent infringement; wage and hour; personal injury; customer privacy violations; regulatory proceedings, and our advertising, sales and billing and collection practices. We also spend substantial resources complying with various government standards, which may entail related investigations and litigation. In the wireless area, we also face current and potential litigation relating to alleged adverse health effects on customers or employees who use such technologies including, for example, wireless devices. We may incur significant expenses defending such suits or government charges and may be required to pay amounts or otherwise change our operations in ways that could materially adversely affect our operations or financial results.

Cyber attacks, equipment failures, natural disasters and terrorist acts may materially adversely affect our operations  . 

Cyber attacks, major equipment failures or natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist acts or other breaches of network or IT security that affect our wireline and wireless networks, including telephone switching offices, microwave links, third-party-owned local and long-distance networks on which we rely, our cell sites or other equipment, our video satellites, our customer account support and information systems, or employee and business records could have a material adverse effect on our operations. While we have been subject to security breaches or cyber attacks, these did not result in a material adverse effect on our operations. However, as such attacks continue to increase in scope and frequency, we may be unable to prevent a significant attack in the future. Our ability to maintain and upgrade our video programming also depends on our ability to successfully deploy and operate video satellites. Our inability to deploy or operate our wireline, wireless, satellite or customer or employee-related support systems as a result of such events, even for a limited time period, could result in significant expenses, potential legal liability or a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, and damage our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

36

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Our failure to successfully integrate our July 2015 acquisition of DIRECTV, including our failure to achieve the cost savings and any other synergies from the acquisition either on schedule or in the amounts expected; the potential adverse effects on our dividend amount due to the issuance of additional shares and the addition of acquisition-related debt to our balance sheet; disruption from the acquisition making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; and competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues, all may materially adversely affect our operating results. 

We completed our acquisition of DIRECTV in July 2015. We believe that the acquisition will give us the scale, resources and ability to deploy video services to more customers than otherwise possible and to provide an integrated bundle of broadband, video and wireless services enabling us to compete more effectively against cable operators as well as other technology, media and communications companies. In addition, we believe the acquisition will result in cost savings, especially in the area of video content costs, and other potential synergies, enabling us to expand and enhance our broadband deployment and provide more video options across multiple fixed and mobile devices. We must comply with various regulatory conditions and integrate a large number of video network and other operational systems and administrative systems. The integration process may also result in significant expenses and charges against earnings, both cash and noncash. While we have successfully merged large companies into our operations in the past, delays in the process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. This acquisition has increased the amount of debt on our balance sheet (both from DIRECTV's debt and the indebtedness needed to pay a portion of the purchase price) leading to additional interest expense and, due to additional shares being issued, will result in additional cash being required for any dividends declared. Both of these factors could put pressure on our financial flexibility to continue capital investments, develop new services and declare future dividends. In addition, events outside of our control, including changes in regulation and laws as well as economic trends, could adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits from this acquisition.

The acquisitions of DIRECTV, GSF Telecom and Nextel Mexico will increase our exposure to both changes in the international economy and to the level of regulation on our business and these risks could offset our expected growth opportunities from these acquisitions.

These three acquisitions will increase the magnitude of our international operations, particularly in Mexico and the rest of Latin America. We will need to comply with a wide variety of new and complex local laws, regulations and treaties and government involvement in private business activity. We will also be exposed to restrictions on cash repatriation, foreign exchange controls, fluctuations in currency values, trade restrictions and other regulations that may affect materially our earnings. While the countries involved represent significant opportunities to sell our advanced services, a number of these same countries have experienced unstable growth patterns and at times have experienced high inflation, currency devaluation, foreign exchange controls, instability in the banking sector and high unemployment. Should these conditions persist, customers in these countries may be unable to purchase the services we offer or pay for services already provided.

In addition, operating in foreign countries also typically involves participating with local businesses, either to comply with local laws or, for example, to enhance product marketing. Involvement with foreign firms exposes us to the risk of being unable to control the actions of those firms and therefore exposes us to violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Violations of the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.

Increases in our debt levels to fund acquisitions, additional spectrum purchases, or other strategic decisions could adversely affect our ability to finance future debt at attractive rates and reduce our ability to respond to competition and adverse economic trends.

We have increased the amount of our debt during 2014 and 2015 to fund acquisitions, including spectrum purchases needed to compete in our business. While we believe such decisions were prudent and necessary to take advantage of both growth opportunities and respond to industry developments, we experienced a credit-rating downgrade. Banks and potential purchasers of our publicly-traded debt may decide that these strategic decisions and similar actions we may take in the future, as well as expected trends in the industry, will continue to increase the risk of investing in our debt and may demand a higher rate of interest, impose restrictive covenants or otherwise limit the amount of potential borrowing.

37

CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Information set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially. Many of these factors are discussed in more detail in the "Risk Factors" section. We claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

The following factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:

Adverse economic and/or capital access changes in the markets served by us or in countries in which we have significant investments, including the impact on customer demand and our ability and our suppliers' ability to access financial markets at favorable rates and terms.

Changes in available technology and the effects of such changes, including product substitutions and deployment costs.

Increases in our benefit plans' costs, including increases due to adverse changes in the United States and foreign securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed investment returns and discount rates; adverse changes in mortality assumptions; adverse medical cost trends, and unfavorable or delayed implementation of healthcare legislation, regulations or related court decisions.

The final outcome of FCC and other federal or state agency proceedings (including judicial review, if any, of such proceedings) involving issues that are important to our business, including, without limitation, intercarrier compensation, interconnection obligations, pending Notices of Apparent Liability, the transition from legacy technologies to IP-based infrastructure including the withdrawal of legacy TDM-based services, universal service, broadband deployment, E911 services, competition policy, net neutrality, including the FCC's order reclassifying broadband as Title II services subject to much more fulsome regulation, unbundled network elements and other wholesale obligations, multi-channel video programming distributor services and equipment, availability of new spectrum from the FCC on fair and balanced terms, and wireless and satellite license awards and renewals.

The final outcome of state and federal legislative efforts involving issues that are important to our business, including deregulation of IP-based services, relief from Carrier of Last Resort obligations, and elimination of state commission review of the withdrawal of services.

Enactment of additional state, federal and/or foreign regulatory and tax laws and regulations pertaining to our subsidiaries and foreign investments, including laws and regulations that reduce our incentive to invest in our networks, resulting in lower revenue growth and/or higher operating costs.

Our ability to absorb revenue losses caused by increasing competition, including offerings that use alternative technologies or delivery methods (e.g., cable, wireless, VoIP and Over The Top Video service) and our ability to maintain capital expenditures.

The extent of competition including from governmental networks and other providers and the resulting pressure on customer and access line totals and segment operating margins.

Our ability to develop attractive and profitable product/service offerings to offset increasing competition.

The ability of our competitors to offer product/service offerings at lower prices due to lower cost structures and regulatory and legislative actions adverse to us, including state regulatory proceedings relating to unbundled network elements and nonregulation of comparable alternative technologies (e.g., VoIP).

The continued development and delivery of attractive and profitable video offerings through satellite and U-verse; the extent to which regulatory and build-out requirements apply to our offerings; and the availability, cost and/or reliability of the various technologies and/or content required to provide such offerings.

Our continued ability to attract and offer a diverse portfolio of wireless service and devices, device financing plans, and maintain margins.

The availability and cost of additional wireless spectrum and regulations and conditions relating to spectrum use, licensing, obtaining additional spectrum, technical standards and deployment and usage, including network management rules.

Our ability to manage growth in wireless data services, including network quality and acquisition of adequate spectrum at reasonable costs and terms.

The outcome of pending, threatened or potential litigation, including, without limitation,   patent and product safety claims by or against third parties.

The impact on our networks, including satellites operated by DIRECTV, and business from major equipment failures; security breaches related to the network or customer information; our inability to obtain handsets, equipment/software or have handsets, equipment/software serviced, and in the case of satellites launched, in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers; or severe weather conditions, natural disasters, pandemics, energy shortages, wars or terrorist attacks.

The issuance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other accounting oversight bodies of new accounting standards or changes to existing standards.

The issuance by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state or foreign tax authorities of new tax regulations or changes to existing standards and actions by federal, state, local or foreign tax agencies and judicial authorities with respect to applying applicable tax laws and regulations and the resolution of disputes with any taxing jurisdictions.

Our ability to integrate our acquisition of DIRECTV.

Our ability to adequately fund our wireless operations, including payment for additional spectrum, network upgrades and technological advancements.

Our increased exposure to video competition and foreign economies due to our recent acquisitions of DIRECTV and Mexican wireless properties, including foreign exchange fluctuations, as well as regulatory and political uncertainty in Latin America.

Changes in our corporate strategies, such as changing network requirements or acquisitions and dispositions, which may require significant amounts of cash or stock, to respond to competition and regulatory, legislative and technological developments.

The uncertainty surrounding further congressional action to address spending reductions, which may result in a significant reduction in government spending and reluctance of businesses and consumers to spend in general and on our products and services specifically, due to this fiscal uncertainty.

Readers are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not enumerated here, also could materially affect our future earnings.

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation   Throughout this document, AT T Inc. is referred to as "AT T," "we" or the "Company." The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and our majority-owned subsidiaries and affiliates, including the results of DIRECTV and wireless properties in Mexico for the period from acquisition through December 31, 2015. Our subsidiaries and affiliates operate in the communications and digital entertainment services industry, providing services and equipment that deliver voice, video and broadband services domestically and internationally.

All significant intercompany transactions are eliminated in the consolidation process. Investments in less than majority-owned subsidiaries and partnerships where we have significant influence are accounted for under the equity method. Earnings from certain investments accounted for using the equity method are included for periods ended within up to one quarter of our period end. We also recorded our proportionate share of our equity method investees' other comprehensive income (OCI) items, including actuarial gains and losses on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and cumulative translation adjustments.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes, including estimates of probable losses and expenses. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation, including our presentation of "Equipment" and "Broadcast, programming and operations" costs separately from other cost of services in the consolidated statements of income.

Customer Fulfillment Costs   In August 2015, with our acquisition of DIRECTV, we announced a change in accounting for customer set-up and installation costs. Historically we have followed an accounting policy of deferring customer set-up and installation costs only to the extent of deferred revenues recorded for upfront fees (e.g., activation charges), and to expense any costs that exceed deferred revenues. After discussing this change with the Securities and Exchange Commission, we changed our accounting to a preferable method of capitalizing these costs and amortizing them over the expected economic life of the customer relationship of approximately four years, subject to an assessment of the recoverability of such costs. This change in accounting principle impacts video, broadband Internet and wireline voice services and is considered preferable in that it provides an accurate reflection of assets (i.e., the contractual customer relationship obtained through the set-up and installation) generated by those specific business activities. Our new accounting method is more comparable with the accounting method used in the cable entertainment industry. With our acquisition of DIRECTV, changing to this accounting method enhances comparability to other companies in the industry. This change in accounting did not have an impact on our wireless activities, due to the absence of these types of expenses in those business activities.

The cumulative effect of the change on Retained Earnings as of January 1, 2013, was an increase of approximately $2,959 on our consolidated balance sheet. This change did not have an impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.

New Accounting Standards

Long-Term Debt and Debt Issuance Costs   In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2015-03, "Interest   Imputation of Interest: Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs" (ASU 2015-03), which resulted in the reclassification of debt issuance costs from "Other Assets" to inclusion as a reduction of our reportable "Long-Term Debt" balance on our consolidated balance sheets. Since ASU 2015-03 does not address deferred issuance costs for line-of-credit arrangements, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-15, "Interest   Imputation of Interest:  Presentation and Subsequent Measurement of Debt Issuance Costs Associated with Line-of-Credit Arrangements" (ASU 2015-15), in August 2015. ASU 2015-15 allows a company to defer debt issuance costs associated with line-of-credit arrangements, including arrangements with no outstanding borrowings, classify them as an asset, and amortize them over the term of the arrangements. We elected to adopt ASU 2015-03 early, with full retrospective application as required by the guidance, and ASU 2015-15, which was effective immediately. These standards did not have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheets and had no impact on our cash flows provided by or used in operations for any period presented.

45

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Business Combinations     In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, "Business Combinations   Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments" (ASU 2015-16), which results in the ability to recognize, in current period earnings, any changes in provisional amounts during the measurement period after the closing of an acquisition, instead of restating prior periods for these changes. We elected to adopt ASU 2015-16 early, which had no impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015, or our consolidated operating results and cash flows for the year ended.

Deferred Income Taxes and Liabilities     In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, "Income Taxes (Topic 740)   Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes" (ASU 2015-17), which requires companies report their deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets, together as a single noncurrent item on their classified balance sheets. We elected to adopt ASU 2015-17 early, and applied it retrospectively as allowed by the standard. Our adoption of ASU 2015-17 did not have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheets and had no impact on our cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.

The following tables present our results under our historical method and as adjusted to reflect these accounting changes:

46 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Revenue Recognition   In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" (ASU 2014-09) and has since modified the standard with ASU 2015-14, "Deferral of the Effective Date." These standards replace existing revenue recognition rules with a comprehensive revenue measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. ASU 2014-09 becomes effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, at which point we plan to adopt the standard. Upon initial evaluation, we believe the key changes in the standard that impact our revenue recognition relate to the allocation of contract revenues between various services and equipment, and the timing in which those revenues are recognized. We are still in the process of determining the impact on the timing of revenue recognition and the allocation of revenue to products and segments.

47

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

ASU 2014-09 also specifies that all incremental costs of obtaining and direct costs of fulfilling our contracts with customers should be deferred and recognized over the contract period or expected customer life. In the third quarter of 2015, we changed our accounting policy for the costs of fulfilling contracts with customers to defer all recoverable costs while not changing our approach to acquisition costs. We believe, as a result of our accounting policy change for fulfillment costs, that the requirement to defer such costs in the new standard will not result in a significant change to our results. The requirement to defer contract acquisition costs however, will result in the recognition of a deferred charge on our balance sheets, but as the industry continues to undergo changes in how devices and services are sold to customers with impacts on the resulting commissions paid to our internal and external salesforces, we cannot currently estimate impact of this change.

The FASB allows two adoption methods under ASU 2014-09. Under one method, a company will apply the rules to contracts in all reporting periods presented, subject to certain allowable exceptions. Under the other method, a company will apply the rules to all contracts existing as of January 1, 2018, recognizing in beginning retained earnings an adjustment for the cumulative effect of the change and provide additional disclosures comparing results to previous rules. While we continue to evaluate the impact of the new standard and available adoption methods, we believe the standard will require us to implement new revenue accounting systems and processes, which will significantly change our internal controls over revenue recognition. In addition, the implementation of the new systems and processes will impact our considerations of which adoption methods we intend to use.

Financial Instruments   In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, "Financial Instruments   Overall (Subtopic 825-10):  Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities" (ASU 2016-01), which will require us to record changes in the fair value of our equity investments, except for those accounted for under the equity method, in net income instead of in accumulated other comprehensive income. ASU 2016-01 will become effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and with the exception of certain disclosure requirements, is not subject to early adoption.

Income Taxes   We provide deferred income taxes for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the computed tax basis of those assets and liabilities. We provide valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets (included, together with our deferred income tax assets, as part of our reportable net deferred income tax liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets), for which the realization is uncertain. We review these items regularly in light of changes in federal and state tax laws and changes in our business.

Cash and Cash Equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. The carrying amounts approximate fair value. At December 31, 2015, we held $2,117 in cash and $3,004 in money market funds and other cash equivalents.

Revenue Recognition   Revenues derived from wireless, fixed telephone, data and video services are recognized when services are provided. This is based upon either usage (e.g., minutes of traffic/bytes of data processed), period of time (e.g., monthly service fees) or other established fee schedules. Our service revenues are billed either in advance, arrears or are prepaid.

We record revenue reductions for estimated future adjustments to customer accounts, other than bad debt expense, at the time revenue is recognized based on historical experience. Service revenues include billings to our customers for various regulatory fees imposed on us by governmental authorities. We report revenues from transactions between us and our customers net of taxes the government authorities require us to collect from our customers in our consolidated statements of income. Cash incentives given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. Revenues related to nonrefundable, upfront service activation and setup fees are deferred and recognized over the associated service contract period or customer life. Revenue recognized from contracts that bundle services and equipment is limited to the lesser of the amount allocated based on the relative selling price of the equipment and service already delivered or the amount paid and owed by the customer for the equipment and service already delivered. We record the sale of equipment to customers when we no longer have any requirements to perform, when title is passed and when the products are accepted by customers. We record the sale of equipment and services to customers as gross revenue when we are the principal in the arrangement and net of the associated costs incurred when we are not considered the principal in the arrangement.

48

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We offer to our customers the option to purchase certain wireless devices in installments over a period of up to 30 months, with the right to trade in the original equipment for a new device, after having paid a specified number of installments, and have the remaining unpaid balance satisfied. For customers that elect these installment payment programs, we recognize revenue for the entire amount of the customer receivable, net of the fair value of the trade-in right guarantee and imputed interest. See Note 15 for additional information, including the sales of our equipment installment receivables.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   We record expense to maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses that result from the failure or inability of our customers to make required payments deemed collectable from the customer when the service was provided or product was delivered. When determining the allowance, we consider the probability of recoverability of accounts receivable based on past experience, taking into account current collection trends as well as general economic factors, including bankruptcy rates. Credit risks are assessed based on historical write-offs, net of recoveries, as well as an analysis of the aged accounts receivable balances with allowances generally increasing as the receivable ages. Accounts receivable may be fully reserved for when specific collection issues are known to exist, such as pending bankruptcy or catastrophes.

Inventory   Inventories, which are included in "Other current assets" on our consolidated balance sheets, were $4,033 at December 31, 2015, and $1,933 at December 31, 2014. Wireless devices and accessories, which are valued at the lower of cost or market (determined using current replacement cost), were $3,733 at December 31, 2015, and $1,858 at December 31, 2014.

Property, Plant and Equipment   Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, except for assets acquired using acquisition accounting, which are initially recorded at fair value (see Note 6). The cost of additions and substantial improvements to property, plant and equipment is capitalized, and includes internal compensation costs for these projects; however, noncash actuarial gains or losses included in compensation costs are excluded from amounts reported as "capital expenditures." The cost of maintenance and repairs of property, plant and equipment is charged to operating expenses. Property, plant and equipment costs are depreciated using straight-line methods over their estimated economic lives. Certain subsidiaries follow composite group depreciation methodology. Accordingly, when a portion of their depreciable property, plant and equipment is retired in the ordinary course of business, the gross book value is reclassified to accumulated depreciation, and no gain or loss is recognized on the disposition of these assets.

Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We recognize an impairment loss when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset.

The liability for the fair value of an asset retirement obligation is recorded in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. In periods subsequent to initial measurement, we recognize period-to-period changes in the liability resulting from the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate. The increase in the carrying value of the associated long-lived asset is depreciated over the corresponding estimated economic life.

Software Costs   We capitalize certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal-use software. Capitalized software costs are included in "Property, Plant and Equipment" on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, there is certain network software that allows the equipment to provide the features and functions unique to the AT T network, which we include in the cost of the equipment categories for financial reporting purposes.

We amortize our capitalized software costs over a three-year to five-year period, reflecting the estimated period during which these assets will remain in service, which also aligns with the estimated useful lives used in the industry.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   AT T has five major classes of intangible assets: goodwill, licenses, which include Federal Communications Commission (FCC), other wireless licenses and orbital slots, other indefinite-lived intangible assets, primarily made up of the AT T and DIRECTV International trade names including SKY, customer lists and various other finite-lived intangible assets (see Note 7).

49

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. FCC and wireless licenses (wireless licenses) provide us with the exclusive right to utilize certain radio frequency spectrum to provide wireless communications services. While wireless licenses are issued for a fixed period of time (generally 10 years), renewals of wireless licenses have occurred routinely and at nominal cost. Moreover, we have determined that there are currently no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful lives of our wireless licenses. Orbital slots represent the space in which we operate the broadcast satellites that support our digital video entertainment service offerings. Similar to our wireless licenses, there are no factors that limit the useful lives of our orbital slots. We acquired the rights to the AT T and other brand names in previous acquisitions. We have the effective ability to retain these exclusive rights permanently at a nominal cost.

Goodwill, licenses and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are tested at least annually for impairment. The testing is performed on the value as of October 1 each year, and compares the book value of the assets to their fair value. Goodwill is tested by comparing the book value of each reporting unit, deemed to be our principal operating segments or one level below them (Business Solutions, Entertainment Group, Consumer Mobility, and Mexico Wireless, Brazil and PanAmericana in the International segment), to the fair value of those reporting units calculated using a discounted cash flow approach as well as a market multiple approach. Licenses are tested for impairment on an aggregate basis, consistent with our use of the licenses on a national scope using a discounted cash flow approach. We also corroborated the value of wireless licenses with a market approach as the AWS-3 auction provided market price information for national wireless licenses. Brand names are tested by comparing the book value to a fair value calculated using a discounted cash flow approach on a presumed royalty rate derived from the revenues related to the brand name.

Intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives (see Note 7). Customer lists and relationships are amortized using primarily the sum-of-the-months-digits method of amortization over the period in which those relationships are expected to contribute to our future cash flows. The remaining finite-lived intangible assets are generally amortized using the straight-line method.

Broadcast Programming and Other Costs   We recognize the costs of television programming distribution rights when we distribute the related programming. We recognize the costs of television programming rights to distribute live sporting events to expense using the straight-line method over the course of the season or tournament, which approximates the pattern of usage.

Advertising Costs   We expense advertising costs for products and services or for promoting our corporate image as we incur them (see Note 18).

Traffic Compensation Expense   We use various estimates and assumptions to determine the amount of traffic compensation expense recognized during any reporting period. Switched traffic compensation costs are accrued utilizing estimated rates and volumes by product, formulated from historical data and adjusted for known rate changes. Such estimates are adjusted monthly to reflect newly available information, such as rate changes and new contractual agreements. Bills reflecting actual incurred information are generally not received within three months subsequent to the end of the reporting period, at which point a final adjustment is made to the accrued switched traffic compensation expense. Dedicated traffic compensation costs are estimated based on the number of circuits and the average projected circuit costs.

Foreign Currency Translation   We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk through our foreign affiliates and equity investments in foreign companies. Our foreign subsidiaries and foreign investments generally report their earnings in their local currencies. We translate their foreign assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates. We translate their revenues and expenses using average rates during the year. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (accumulated OCI) in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets (see Note 3). Operations in countries with highly inflationary economies consider the U.S. dollar as the functional currency.

We do not hedge foreign currency translation risk in the net assets and income we report from these sources. However, we do hedge a portion of the foreign currency exchange risk involved in anticipation of highly probable foreign currency-denominated transactions, which we explain further in our discussion of our methods of managing our foreign currency risk (see Note 10).

50

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits   See Note 12 for a comprehensive discussion of our pension and postretirement benefit expense, including a discussion of the actuarial assumptions, our policy for recognizing the associated gains and losses and our method used to estimate service and interest cost components.

NOTE 2. EARNINGS PER SHARE

A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share is shown in the table below:

51 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 3. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Changes in the balances of each component included in accumulated OCI are presented below. All amounts are net of tax and exclude noncontrolling interest.

Following our 2015 acquisitions of DIRECTV and wireless businesses in Mexico, we have additional foreign operations that are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates used to convert operations, assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars. Since the dates of acquisition, when compared to the U.S. dollar, the Brazilian real exchange rate has depreciated 15.2%, the Argentinian peso exchange rate has depreciated 29.1% and Mexican peso exchange rate has depreciated 13.1%. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI include amounts realized upon the sale of our investment in Am rica M vil, S.A. de C.V. (Am rica M vil) (see Note 5).

52 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 4. SEGMENT INFORMATION

Our segments are strategic business units that offer products and services to different customer segments over various technology platforms and/or in different geographies that are managed accordingly. Due to recent organizational changes and our July 24, 2015 acquisition of DIRECTV, effective for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, we revised our operating segments to align with our new management structure and organizational responsibilities. We analyze our operating segments based on segment contribution, which consists of operating income, excluding acquisition-related costs and other significant items (as discussed below), and equity in net income of affiliates for investments managed within each operating segment. We have four reportable segments: (1) Business Solutions, (2) Entertainment Group, (3) Consumer Mobility and (4) International.

We also evaluate segment performance based on segment operating income before depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as EBITDA and/or EBITDA margin. We believe EBITDA to be a relevant and useful measurement to our investors as it is part of our internal management reporting and planning processes and it is an important metric that management uses to evaluate segment operating performance. EBITDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses.

The  Business Solutions segment  provides services to business, governmental and wholesale customers and individual subscribers who purchase wireless services through employer-sponsored plans. We provide advanced IP-based services including Virtual Private Networks (VPN), Ethernet-related products and broadband, collectively referred to as strategic business services, as well as traditional data and voice products. We utilize our wireless and wired network and are marketed to provide a complete communications solution to our business customers.

The  Entertainment Group segment  provides video, Internet and voice communication services to residential customers located in the U.S. or in U.S. territories. We utilize our copper and IP-based (referred to as "wired" or "wireline") wired network and/or our satellite technology.

The  Consumer Mobility segment  provides nationwide wireless service to consumers, and wireless wholesale and resale subscribers located in the U.S. or in U.S. territories. We utilize our U.S. wireless network to provide voice and data services, including high-speed Internet, video entertainment and home monitoring services.

The  International segment  provides entertainment services in Latin America and wireless services in Mexico. Video entertainment services are provided to primarily residential customers using satellite technology. We utilize our regional and national networks in Mexico to provide consumer and business customers with wireless data and voice communication services. Our international subsidiaries conduct business in their local currency and operating results are converted to U.S. dollars using official exchange rates.

In reconciling items to consolidated operating income and income before income taxes,  Corporate and Other  includes: (1) operations that are not considered reportable segments and that are no longer integral to our operations or which we no longer actively market, and (2) impacts of corporate-wide decisions for which the individual operating segments are not being evaluated, including interest costs and expected return on plan assets for our pension and postretirement benefit plans.

Certain operating items are not allocated to our business segments:

Acquisition-related items  include (1) operations and support items associated with the merger and integration of newly acquired businesses, and (2) the noncash amortization of intangible assets acquired in acquisitions.

Certain significant items  include (1) noncash actuarial gains and losses from pension and other postretirement benefits, (2) employee separation charges associated with voluntary and/or strategic offers, (3) losses resulting from abandonment or impairment of assets and (4) other items for which the segments are not being evaluated.

Interest expense and other income (expense)   net, are managed only on a total company basis and are, accordingly, reflected only in consolidated results. Therefore, these items are also not included in each segment's reportable results.

Our operating assets are utilized by multiple segments and consist of our wireless and wired networks as well as an international satellite fleet. We manage our assets to provide for the most efficient, effective and integrated service to our customers, not by operating segment, and therefore asset information and capital expenditures by segment are not presented. Depreciation is allocated based on network usage or asset utilization by segment.

53

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

54

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

55

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

56

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 5. ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND OTHER ADJUSTMENTS

Acquisitions

DIRECTV   On July 24, 2015, we completed our acquisition of DIRECTV, a leading provider of digital television entertainment services in both the United States and Latin America. The acquisition represents an opportunity for us to integrate a unique and complementary set of assets and achieve substantial cost synergies over time, as well as generate revenue from pay television in Latin America. Our distribution scale will enable us to offer consumers bundles including video, high-speed broadband and mobile services, using all the sales channels of both companies. We believe the combined company will be a content distribution leader across mobile, video and broadband platforms.

Under the merger agreement, each share of DIRECTV stock was exchanged for $28.50 cash plus 1.892 shares of our common stock. After adjustment for shares issued to trusts consolidated by AT T, share-based payment arrangements and fractional shares, which were settled in cash, AT T issued 954,407,524 shares to DIRECTV shareholders, giving them an approximate 16% stake in the combined company, based on common shares outstanding. Based on our $34.29 per share closing stock price on July 24, 2015, the aggregate value of consideration paid to DIRECTV shareholders was $47,409, including $32,727 of AT T stock and $14,378 in cash, $299 for share-based payment arrangements and $5 for DIRECTV shares previously purchased on the open market by trusts consolidated by AT T.

Our 2015 operating results include the results from DIRECTV following the acquisition date. The fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were preliminarily determined using the income, cost and market approaches. The fair value measurements were primarily based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market and are considered Level 3 under the Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure framework, other than long-term debt assumed in the acquisition (see Note 10). The income approach was primarily used to value the intangible assets, consisting primarily of acquired customer relationships, orbital slots and trade names. The income approach estimates fair value for an asset based on the present value of cash flows projected to be generated by the asset. Projected cash flows are discounted at a required rate of return that reflects the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. The cost approach, which estimates value by determining the current cost of replacing an asset with another of equivalent economic utility, was used primarily for plant, property and equipment. The cost to replace a given asset reflects the estimated reproduction or replacement cost for the property, less an allowance for loss in value due to depreciation. Our December 31, 2015 consolidated balance sheet includes the assets and liabilities of DIRECTV, which have been measured at fair value.

The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values of the DIRECTV assets acquired and liabilities assumed and related deferred income taxes as of the acquisition date.

57

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

These estimates are preliminary in nature and subject to adjustments, which could be material. Any necessary adjustments will be finalized within one year from the date of acquisition. Substantially all the receivables acquired are expected to be collectable. We have not identified any material unrecorded pre-acquisition contingencies where the related asset, liability or impairment is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the fair value of the net assets acquired, and represents the future economic benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of acquisition. Prior to the finalization of the purchase price allocation, if information becomes available that would indicate it is probable that such events had occurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, such items will be included in the final purchase price allocation and may change goodwill. Purchased goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill was allocated to our Entertainment Group and International segments.

For the 160-day period ended December 31, 2015, our consolidated statement of income included $14,561 of revenues and $(46) of operating income, which included $2,254 of intangible amortization from DIRECTV, and its affiliates. The following unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations assume that the acquisition of DIRECTV was completed as of January 1, 2014.

58

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Nonrecurring adjustments included in the pro forma results above consist of the following:  At June 30, 2015, due to the continued economic uncertainty and lack of liquidity in all three of the official currency exchange mechanisms in Venezuela, DIRECTV changed the exchange rate used to measure its Venezuelan subsidiary's monetary assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars from Sistema Complementario de Administraci n de Divisas (SICAD) to Sistema Marginal de Divisas (SIMADI). The significant change in exchange rates also required the reevaluation of the recoverability of fixed and intangible assets and inventory, which resulted in an impairment charge of $1,060 recorded in DIRECTV's consolidated statement of operations for the six-month period ended June 30, 2015. Prior to DIRECTV's June 30, 2015 change to the SIMADI exchange rate, operating results for the six months ended June 30, 2015 were measured using the SICAD exchange rate which resulted in revenues in Venezuela of approximately $500 and operating profit before depreciation and amortization of approximately $180. Pro forma data may not be indicative of the results that would have been obtained had these events occurred at the beginning of the periods presented, nor is it intended to be a projection of future results.

Nextel Mexico   On April 30, 2015, we completed our acquisition of the subsidiaries of NII Holdings Inc., operating its wireless business in Mexico, for $1,875, including approximately $427 of net debt and other adjustments. The subsidiaries offered service under the name Nextel Mexico.

The preliminary values of assets acquired were: $383 in licenses, $1,293 in property, plant and equipment, $111 in customer lists and $112 of goodwill. The goodwill was allocated to our International segment.

GSF Telecom   On January 16, 2015, we acquired Mexican wireless company GSF Telecom Holdings, S.A.P.I. de C.V. (GSF Telecom) for $2,500, including net debt of approximately $700. GSF Telecom offered service under both the Iusacell and Unefon brand names in Mexico.

The preliminary values of assets acquired were: $673 in licenses, $715 in property, plant and equipment, $374 in customer lists, $26 in trade names and $972 of goodwill. The goodwill was allocated to our International segment.

AWS-3 Auction   In January 2015, we submitted winning bids for 251 Advanced Wireless Service (AWS) spectrum licenses in the AWS-3 Auction (FCC Auction 97) for $18,189. We provided the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) an initial down payment of $921 in October 2014 and paid the remaining $17,268 in the first quarter of 2015. 

Spectrum Acquisitions     During 2015, we acquired $489 of wireless spectrum, not including the AWS auction. During 2014, we acquired $1,263 of wireless spectrum, not including Leap Wireless International, Inc. (Leap) discussed below.

Leap   In March 2014, we acquired Leap, a provider of prepaid wireless service, for $15.00 per outstanding share of Leap's common stock, or $1,248 (excluding Leap's cash on hand), plus one nontransferable contingent value right (CVR) per share. The CVR will entitle each Leap stockholder to a pro rata share of the net proceeds of the future sale of the Chicago 700 MHz A-band FCC license held by Leap.

The values of assets acquired under the terms of the agreement were: $3,000 in licenses, $510 in property, plant and equipment, $520 of customer lists, $340 for trade names and $248 of goodwill. The goodwill was allocated to our Consumer Mobility segment. The estimated fair value of debt associated with the acquisition of Leap was $3,889, all of which was redeemed or matured by July 31, 2014.

Dispositions

Connecticut Wireline   On October 24, 2014, we sold our incumbent local exchange operations in Connecticut for $2,018 and recorded a pre-tax gain of $76, which is included in "Other income (expense)   net," on our consolidated statements of income. In conjunction with the sale, we allocated $743 of goodwill from our former Wireline reporting unit. Because the book value of the goodwill did not have a corresponding tax basis, the resulting net income impact of the sale was a loss of $360.

Am rica M vil   In 2014, we sold our remaining stake in Am rica M vil for approximately $5,885 and recorded a pre-tax gain of $1,330, which is included in "Other income (expense)   net," on our consolidated statements of income. In 2013, we sold a portion of our shares in Am rica M vil for approximately $1,179. Am rica M vil was accounted for as an equity method investment.

59

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment is summarized as follows at December 31:

Our depreciation expense was $19,289 in 2015, $17,773 in 2014 and $17,722 in 2013. Depreciation expense included amortization of software totaling $1,660 in 2015, $1,504 in 2014 and $2,142 in 2013.

We periodically assess our network assets for impairment, and our analyses have indicated no impairment. During 2014, due to declining customer demand for our legacy voice and data products and the migration of our networks to next generation technologies, we decided to abandon in place specific copper network assets classified as cable, wiring and conduit. These abandoned assets had a gross book value of approximately $7,141, with accumulated depreciation of   $5,021. In 2014, we recorded a $2,120 noncash charge for this abandonment, which is included in "Abandonment of network assets" on our consolidated statements of income.

Certain facilities and equipment used in operations are leased under operating or capital leases. Rental expenses under operating leases were $5,025 for 2015, $4,345 for 2014 and $3,683 for 2013. At December 31, 2015, the future minimum rental payments under noncancelable operating leases for the years 2016 through 2020 were $3,775, $3,551, $3,257, $3,003 and $2,771, with $12,488 due thereafter. Certain real estate operating leases contain renewal options that may be exercised. Capital leases are not significant.

60

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

As part of our organizational realignment discussed in Note 4, the goodwill from the previous Wireless segment was allocated to the Business Solutions and Consumer Mobility segments and the goodwill from the previous Wireline segment was allocated to the Business Solutions and Entertainment Group segments. The allocations were based on the relative fair value of the portions of the previous Wireless and Wireline segments which were moved into the new Business Solutions, Entertainment Group and Consumer Mobility segments.

The following table sets forth the changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill by segment, which is the same as reporting unit for Business Solutions, Entertainment Group and Consumer Mobility. The International segment has three reporting units: Mexico Wireless, Brazil and PanAmericana.

The majority of our goodwill acquired during 2015 related to our acquisitions of DIRECTV, Nextel Mexico and GSF Telecom. The allocation of goodwill represents goodwill previously assigned to our Wireless and Wireline segments. Other changes to our goodwill in 2015 include foreign currency translation adjustments and the final valuation of Leap. The majority of our goodwill acquired during 2014 related to our acquisition of Leap. Other changes to our goodwill during 2014 include adjustments to the amount of goodwill moved to held for sale in 2013 related to the sale of our Connecticut wireline operations. (See Note 5)

61

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Our other intangible assets are summarized as follows:

Wireless license additions in 2015 were primarily related to FCC Auction 97, with the remainder originating from our Mexico business acquisitions and various spectrum license purchases. The increase in orbital slots and trade names was primarily due to the DIRECTV acquisition. (See Note 5)

We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually (see Note 1). Licenses include wireless licenses that provide us with the exclusive right to utilize certain radio frequency spectrum to provide wireless communications services, similar licenses in Mexico and orbital slots   representing the space in which we operate the broadcast satellites that support our digital video entertainment service offerings.

Amortized intangible assets are definite-life assets, and as such, we record amortization expense based on a method that most appropriately reflects our expected cash flows from these assets, over a weighted-average of 8.6 years (9.2 years for customer lists and relationships and 4.2 years for amortizing trade names and other). Amortization expense for definite-life intangible assets was $2,728 for the year ended December 31, 2015, $500 for the year ended December 31, 2014 and $672 for the year ended December 31, 2013. Amortization expense is estimated to be $5,207 in 2016, $4,623 in 2017, $3,580 in 2018, $2,521 in 2019, and $2,041 in 2020.

62

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

In 2015, we wrote off approximately $1,483 of fully amortized intangible assets (primarily customer lists). In 2014, we wrote off approximately $2,850 of fully amortized intangible assets (primarily customer lists). We review other amortizing intangible assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable over the remaining life of the asset or asset group.

NOTE 8. EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS

Investments in partnerships, joint ventures and less than majority-owned subsidiaries in which we have significant influence are accounted for under the equity method.

In the third quarter of 2015, we acquired DIRECTV (see Note 5), which included various equity method investments. The earnings from these investments, subsequent to the acquisition date, are included in the 2015 activity in the table below, as well as our consolidated statement of income for 2015.

Our investments in equity affiliates at December 31, 2015 primarily include our interests in SKY Mexico, Game Show Network, Otter Media Holdings, YP Holdings LLC (YP Holdings), MLB Network and NW Sports Net.

SKY Mexico   We hold a 41.0% interest in SKY Mexico, which was acquired as part of DIRECTV. SKY Mexico is a leading pay-TV provider in Mexico.

Game Show Network (GSN)   We hold a 42.0% interest in GSN, which was also a part of the acquisition of DIRECTV. GSN is a television network dedicated to game-related programming and Internet interactive game playing.

Otter Media Holdings   We hold a 43.4% interest in Otter Media Holdings, a venture between The Chernin Group and AT T that is focused on acquiring, investing in and launching over-the-top subscription video services.

YP Holdings   We hold a 47.0% interest in YP Holdings, an online advertising company and directory publisher.

MLB Network   We hold a 16.7% interest in MLB Network, which offers broadcasts dedicated to Major League Baseball and was acquired with DIRECTV.

NW Sports Net   We hold a 29.0% interest in NW Sports Net, a regional sports network acquired as part of DIRECTV.

The following table is a reconciliation of our investments in equity affiliates as presented on our consolidated balance sheets:

Undistributed earnings from equity affiliates were $162 and $88 at December 31, 2015 and 2014.

63

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 9. DEBT

Long-term debt of AT T and its subsidiaries, including interest rates and maturities, is summarized as follows at December 31:

On July 24, 2015, we added $20,585 in long-term debt, including capital leases, related to our acquisition of DIRECTV. DIRECTV's debt included both fixed and floating-rate coupons with a weighted average rate of approximately 4.6% (ranging from 1.75% to 9.50%) and had maturities ranging from 2015 to 2042. Included in our "Total notes and debentures" balance in the table above was the face value of acquired debt from DIRECTV of $17,050, which had a carrying amount of $17,787 at December 31, 2015.

Included in the table above at December 31, 2015, was approximately $738, representing the remaining excess of the fair value over the recorded value of debt in connection with the acquisition of DIRECTV, all of which was included in our "Unamortized (discount) premium - net." The excess is amortized over the remaining lives of the underlying debt obligations.

We had outstanding Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Swiss franc and Brazilian real denominated debt of approximately $26,221 and $24,568 at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The weighted-average interest rate of our entire long-term debt portfolio, including the impact of derivatives, decreased from 4.2% at December 31, 2014 to 4.0% at December 31, 2015.

Other debt includes financing arrangements we have in Mexico for the construction of wireless network facilities that totaled $416, at December 31, 2015.

Current maturities of long-term debt include debt that may be put back to us by the holders in 2016. We have $1,000 of annual put reset securities that may be put each April until maturity in 2021. If the holders do not require us to repurchase the securities, the interest rate will be reset based on current market conditions. Likewise, we have an accreting zero-coupon note that may be redeemed each May, until maturity in 2022. If the zero-coupon note (issued for principal of $500 in 2007) is held to maturity, the redemption amount will be $1,030.

64

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Debt maturing within one year consisted of the following at December 31:

Financing Activities

During 2015, we issued $33,969 in long-term debt in various markets, with an average weighted maturity of approximately 12 years and a weighted average coupon of 2.7%. We redeemed $10,042 in borrowings of various notes with stated rates of 0.80% to 9.10%.

During 2015 we completed the following long-term debt issuances:

On February 9, 2016, we completed the following long-term debt issuances:

As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants and conditions of instruments governing our debt. Substantially all of our outstanding long-term debt is unsecured. Maturities of outstanding long-term notes and debentures, as of December 31, 2015, and the corresponding weighted-average interest rate scheduled for repayment are as follows:

Credit Facilities

On December 11, 2015, we entered into a five-year, $12,000 credit agreement (the "Revolving Credit Agreement") with Citibank, N.A. (Citibank), as administrative agent, replacing our $5,000 credit agreement that would have expired in December 2018. At the same time, AT T and the lenders terminated their obligations under the existing revolving $3,000 credit agreement with Citibank that would have expired in December 2017.

In January 2015, we entered into a $9,155 credit agreement (the "Syndicated Credit Agreement") containing (i) a $6,286 term loan facility (the "Tranche A Facility") and (ii) a $2,869 term loan facility (the "Tranche B Facility"), with certain investment and commercial banks and Mizuho Bank, Ltd. ("Mizuho"), as administrative agent. We also entered into a $2,000 18-month credit agreement (the "18-Month Credit Agreement") with Mizuho as initial lender and agent. On December 11, 2015, AT T amended the Syndicated Credit Agreement and the 18-Month Credit Agreement to, among other things, revise the financial covenant to match the financial covenant in the Revolving Credit Agreement.

65

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Revolving Credit Agreement

In the event advances are made under the Revolving Credit Agreement, those advances would be used for general corporate purposes. Advances are not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse change. All advances must be repaid no later than the date on which lenders are no longer obligated to make any advances under the agreement. We can terminate, in whole or in part, amounts committed by the lenders in excess of any outstanding advances; however, we cannot reinstate any such terminated commitments. We also may request that the total amount of the lender's commitments be increased by an integral multiple of $25 effective on a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled termination date then in effect, provided that no event of default has occurred and in no event shall the total amount of the lender's commitments at any time exceed $14,000. At December 31, 2015, we had no advances outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement and we have complied will all covenants.

The obligations of the lenders to provide advances will terminate on December 11, 2020, unless prior to that date either: (i) AT T reduces to $0 the commitments of the lenders, or (ii) certain events of default occur. We and lenders representing more than 50% of the facility amount may agree to extend their commitments for two one-year periods beyond the December 11, 2020, termination date, under certain circumstances.

Advances under the Revolving Credit Agreement would bear interest, at AT T's option, either:

at a variable annual rate equal to (1) the highest of: (a) the base rate of the bank affiliate of Citibank, N.A. which is serving as administrative agent under the Agreement, (b) 0.50% per annum above the Federal funds rate, and (c) the LIBOR applicable to U.S. dollars for a period of one month plus 1.00% per annum, plus (2) an applicable margin, as set forth in the Revolving Credit Agreement ("Applicable Margin for Base Advances"); or

at a rate equal to: (i) LIBOR for a period of one, two, three or six months, as applicable, plus (ii) the Applicable Margin ("Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances").

The Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances will equal 0.680%, 0.910%, 1.025%, or 1.125% per annum, depending on AT T's credit rating. The Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances will be equal to the greater of 0.00% and the relevant Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances minus 1.00% per annum depending on AT T's credit rating.

We will pay a facility fee of 0.070%, 0.090%, 0.100% or 0.125% per annum, depending on AT T's credit rating, of the amount of lender commitments.

The Revolving Credit Agreement contains covenants that are customary for an issuer with an investment grade senior debt credit rating, as well as a net debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and other modifications described in the Revolving Credit Agreement) financial ratio covenant that AT T will maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of not more than 3.5-to-1.

The Syndicated Credit Agreement

In March 2015, AT T borrowed all amounts available under the Tranche A Facility and the Tranche B Facility. Amounts borrowed under the Tranche A Facility will be due on March 2, 2018. Amounts borrowed under the Tranche B Facility will be subject to amortization from March 2, 2018, with 25 percent of the aggregate principal amount thereof being payable prior to March 2, 2020, and all remaining principal amount due on March 2, 2020.

Advances bear interest at a rate equal to: (i) the LIBOR for deposits in dollars (adjusted upwards to reflect any bank reserve costs) for a period of three or six months, as applicable, plus (ii) the Applicable Margin (each such Advance, a Eurodollar Rate Advance). The Applicable Margin under the Tranche A Facility will equal 1.000%, 1.125% or 1.250% per annum depending on AT T's credit rating. The Applicable Margin under the Tranche B Facility will equal 1.125%, 1.250% or 1.375% per annum, depending on AT T's credit rating.

The Syndicated Credit Agreement contains covenants that are customary for an issuer with an investment grade senior debt credit rating. Among other things, the Syndicated Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a net debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and other modifications described in the Syndicated Credit Agreement) ratio of not more than 3.5-to-1, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter.

Events of default are customary for an agreement of this nature and result in the acceleration or permit the lenders to accelerate, as applicable, required payment and which would increase the Applicable Margin by 2.00% per annum.

66

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The 18-Month Credit Agreement

In March 2015, AT T borrowed all amounts available under the 18-Month Credit Agreement. Amounts borrowed under the 18-Month Credit Agreement will be due and payable on September 2, 2016. In September 2015, we partially repaid the amount borrowed.

Advances bear interest at a rate equal to: (i) the LIBOR for deposits in dollars (adjusted upwards to reflect any bank reserve costs) for a period of one, two, three or six months, as applicable, plus (ii) the Applicable Margin (each such Advance, a Eurodollar Rate Advance). The Applicable Margin will equal 0.800%, 0.900% or 1.000% per annum, depending on AT T's credit rating. In the event that AT T's unsecured senior long-term debt ratings are split by S P, Moody's and Fitch, then the Applicable Margin will be determined by the highest rating, unless the lowest of such ratings is more than one level below the highest of such ratings, in which case the pricing will be the rating that is one level above the lowest of such ratings.

The 18-Month Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants and events of default equivalent to those contained in the Syndicated Credit Agreement.

NOTE 10. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS AND DISCLOSURE

The Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure framework provides a three-tiered fair value hierarchy that gives highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below:

Level 1 
 Inputs to the valuation methodology are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that we have the ability to access. 

Level 2 
 Inputs to the valuation methodology include: 

Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets.

Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets.

Inputs other than quoted market prices that are observable for the asset or liability.

Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.

Level 3 
 Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. 

Fair value is often based on developed models in which there are few, if any, external observations.

The fair value measurements level of an asset or liability within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Valuation techniques used should maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.

The valuation methodologies described above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of future net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. We believe our valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants. The use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date. There have been no changes in the methodologies used since December 31, 2014.

67

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Long-Term Debt and Other Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our long-term debt, including current maturities and other financial instruments, are summarized as follows:

The carrying value of debt with an original maturity of less than one year approximates fair value. The fair value measurements used for notes and debentures are considered Level 2 and are determined using various methods, including quoted prices for identical or similar securities in both active and inactive markets.

Following is the fair value leveling for available-for-sale securities and derivatives as of December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014:

Investment Securities

Our investment securities include equities, fixed income bonds and other securities. A substantial portion of the fair values of our available-for-sale securities was estimated based on quoted market prices. Investments in securities not traded on a national securities exchange are valued using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows. Realized gains and losses on securities are included in "Other income (expense)   net" in the consolidated statements of income using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, on available-for-sale securities are recorded in accumulated OCI. Unrealized losses that are considered other than temporary are recorded in "Other income (expense)   net" with the corresponding reduction to the carrying basis of the investment. Fixed income investments of $95 have maturities of less than one year, $320 within one to three years, $52 within three to five years, and $213 for five or more years.

68

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Our cash equivalents (money market securities), short-term investments (certificate and time deposits) and customer deposits are recorded at amortized cost, and the respective carrying amounts approximate fair values. Short-term investments and customer deposits are recorded in "Other current assets" and our investment securities are recorded in "Other assets" on the consolidated balance sheets.

Derivative Financial Instruments

We employ derivatives to manage certain market risks, primarily interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk. This includes the use of interest rate swaps, interest rate locks, foreign exchange forward contracts and combined interest rate foreign exchange contracts (cross-currency swaps). We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. We record derivatives on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value that is derived from observable market data, including yield curves and foreign exchange rates (all of our derivatives are Level 2). Cash flows associated with derivative instruments are presented in the same category on the consolidated statements of cash flows as the item being hedged.

The majority of our derivatives are designated either as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge), or as a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge).

Fair Value Hedging  We designate our fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps as fair value hedges. The purpose of these swaps is to manage interest rate risk by managing our mix of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt. These swaps involve the receipt of fixed-rate amounts for floating interest rate payments over the life of the swaps without exchange of the underlying principal amount. Accrued and realized gains or losses from interest rate swaps impact interest expense in the consolidated statements of income. Unrealized gains on interest rate swaps are recorded at fair market value as assets, and unrealized losses on interest rate swaps are recorded at fair market value as liabilities. Changes in the fair values of the interest rate swaps are exactly offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying debt. Gains or losses realized upon early termination of our fair value hedges are recognized in interest expense. In the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, no ineffectiveness was measured on interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges.

Cash Flow Hedging  We designate our cross-currency swaps as cash flow hedges. We have entered into multiple cross-currency swaps to hedge our exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that are attributable to foreign currency risk generated from the issuance of our Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and Swiss Franc denominated debt. These agreements include initial and final exchanges of principal from fixed foreign denominations to fixed U.S. denominated amounts, to be exchanged at a specified rate, usually determined by the market spot rate upon issuance. They also include an interest rate swap of a fixed or floating foreign-denominated rate to a fixed U.S. denominated interest rate.

Unrealized gains on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value as assets, and unrealized losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value as liabilities, both for the period they are outstanding. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion is reported as a component of accumulated OCI until reclassified into interest expense in the same period the hedged transaction affects earnings. The gain or loss on the ineffective portion is recognized as "Other income (expense)   net" in the consolidated statements of income in each period. We evaluate the effectiveness of our cross-currency swaps each quarter. In the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, no ineffectiveness was measured on cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges.

Periodically, we enter into and designate interest rate locks to partially hedge the risk of changes in interest payments attributable to increases in the benchmark interest rate during the period leading up to the probable issuance of fixed-rate debt. We designate our interest rate locks as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses when we settle our interest rate locks are amortized into income over the life of the related debt, except where a material amount is deemed to be ineffective, which would be immediately reclassified to "Other income (expense)   net" in the consolidated statements of income. In the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, no ineffectiveness was measured on interest rate locks. Over the next 12 months, we expect to reclassify $59 from accumulated OCI to interest expense due to the amortization of net losses on historical interest rate locks.

69

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We hedge a portion of the exchange risk involved in anticipation of highly probable foreign currency-denominated transactions. In anticipation of these transactions, we often enter into foreign exchange contracts to provide currency at a fixed rate. Gains and losses at the time we settle or take delivery on our designated foreign exchange contracts are amortized into income in the same period the hedged transaction affects earnings, except where an amount is deemed to be ineffective, which would be immediately reclassified to "Other income (expense)   net" in the consolidated statements of income. In the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, no ineffectiveness was measured on foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges.

Collateral and Credit-Risk Contingency   We have entered into agreements with our derivative counterparties establishing collateral thresholds based on respective credit ratings and netting agreements. At December 31, 2015, we had posted collateral of $2,343 (a deposit asset) and held collateral of $124 (a receipt liability). Under the agreements, if our credit rating had been downgraded one rating level by Fitch Ratings, before the final collateral exchange in December, we would have been required to post additional collateral of $105. If DIRECTV Holdings LLC's credit rating had been downgraded below BBB- (S P) and below Baa3 (Moody's) we would owe an additional $163. At December 31, 2014, we had posted collateral of $530 (a deposit asset) and held collateral of $599 (a receipt liability). We do not offset the fair value of collateral, whether the right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) exists, against the fair value of the derivative instruments.

Following is the notional amount of our outstanding derivative positions:

Following is the related hedged items affecting our financial position and performance:

Effect of Derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of Income

Fair Value Hedging Relationships

For the years ended December 31,

2015 

2014 

2013 

Interest rate swaps (Interest expense):

Gain (Loss) on interest rate swaps

$

(16

)

$

(29

)

$

(113

)

Gain (Loss) on long-term debt

16

29

113

In addition, the net swap settlements that accrued and settled in the periods above were included in interest expense.

70

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 11. INCOME TAXES

Significant components of our deferred tax liabilities (assets) are as follows at December 31:

At December 31, 2015, we had combined net operating loss carryforwards (tax effected) for federal income tax purposes of $106, state of $851 and foreign of $1,676, expiring through 2031. Additionally, we had federal credit carryforwards of $134 and state credit carryforwards of $1,262, expiring primarily through 2035. The increase in our net operating loss carryforwards was primarily due to our acquisitions of GSF Telecom, Nextel Mexico and DIRECTV.

We recognize a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Our valuation allowances at December 31, 2015 and 2014 related primarily to state and foreign net operating losses and state credit carryforwards. The increase in our valuation allowance was primarily due to our 2015 acquisitions.

71

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax return position when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the position will ultimately be sustained. For tax positions that meet this recognition threshold, we apply our judgment, taking into account applicable tax laws, our experience in managing tax audits and relevant GAAP, to determine the amount of tax benefits to recognize in our financial statements. For each position, the difference between the benefit realized on our tax return and the benefit reflected in our financial statements is recorded on our consolidated balance sheets as an unrecognized tax benefit (UTB). We update our UTBs at each financial statement date to reflect the impacts of audit settlements and other resolutions of audit issues, the expiration of statutes of limitation, developments in tax law and ongoing discussions with taxing authorities. A reconciliation of the change in our UTB balance from January 1 to December 31 for 2015 and 2014 is as follows:

Periodically we make deposits to taxing jurisdictions which reduce our UTB balance but are not included in the reconciliation above. The amount of deposits that reduced our UTB balance was $3,027 at December 31, 2015, and $2,258 at December 31, 2014.

Accrued interest and penalties included in UTBs were $1,138 as of December 31, 2015, and $973 as of December 31, 2014. We record interest and penalties related to federal, state and foreign UTBs in income tax expense. The net interest and penalty expense (benefit) included in income tax expense was $83 for 2015, $(64) for 2014, and $35 for 2013.

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. As a large taxpayer, our income tax returns are regularly audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities. The IRS has completed field examinations of our tax returns through 2010. All audit periods prior to 2003 are closed for federal examination purposes. Contested issues from our 2003 through 2010 returns are at various stages of resolution with the IRS Appeals Division; we are unable to estimate the impact the resolution of these issues may have on our UTBs.

72

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The components of income tax (benefit) expense are as follows:

"Income Before Income Taxes" in the Consolidated Statements of Income included the following components for the years ended December 31:

A reconciliation of income tax expense (benefit) and the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate (35%) to income from continuing operations before income taxes is as follows:

NOTE 12. PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Benefits and Postretirement Benefits

Substantially all of our U.S. employees are covered by one of our noncontributory pension plans. The majority of our newly hired employees, longer-service management and some nonmanagement employees participate in cash balance pension programs that include annual or monthly credits based on salary as well as an interest credit. Other longer-service management employees participate in pension programs that have a traditional pension formula (i.e., a stated percentage of employees' adjusted career income). Other longer-service nonmanagement employees' pension benefits are generally calculated using one of two formulas: a flat dollar amount applied to years of service according to job classification or a cash balance plan with negotiated annual pension band credits as well as interest credits. Most nonmanagement employees can elect to receive their pension benefits in either a lump sum payment or an annuity. Effective January 1, 2015, the pension plan was amended so that new management hires are no longer eligible for the plan.

73

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We also provide a variety of medical, dental and life insurance benefits to certain retired employees under various plans and accrue actuarially determined postretirement benefit costs as active employees earn these benefits.

We acquired DIRECTV on July 24, 2015. DIRECTV sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan, which provides benefits to most employees based on either years of service and final average salary, or eligible compensation while employed by DIRECTV. DIRECTV also maintains (1) a postretirement benefit plan for those retirees eligible to participate in health care and life insurance benefits generally until they reach age 65 and (2) an unfunded nonqualified pension plan for certain eligible employees. We have recorded the fair value of the DIRECTV plans using assumptions and accounting policies consistent with those disclosed by AT T. Upon acquisition, the excess of projected benefit obligation over the plan assets was recognized as a liability and previously existing deferred actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized service costs or benefits were eliminated.

In December 2014, we announced an opportunity for certain management employees who are retirement eligible as of March 31, 2015 to elect an enhanced, full lump sum payment option of their accrued pension if they retire on or before March 31, 2015. The lump sum value totaled approximately $1,200 which was distributed in 2015. We recorded special termination benefits of $149 as a result of the offer.

In October 2013, we offered an opportunity for certain retirement-eligible employees to elect a full lump sum payment of their accrued pension if they retired as of December 30, 2013. The lump sum value was calculated using the August 2012 discount rates for some pension programs and was equal to the cash balance amount for the management new hire pension program. The lump sum value totaled approximately $2,700, which was distributed in 2014. We recorded special termination benefits of $15 in 2014 and $250 in 2013 as a result of this offer.

In October 2013, as part of our 2014 annual benefits enrollment process, we also communicated an amendment to our Medicare-eligible retirees that, beginning in 2015, AT T would provide access to retiree health insurance coverage that supplements government-sponsored Medicare through a private insurance marketplace. The plan was further amended in 2014 to include access to dental benefits through the private insurance marketplace. This new approach allowed retirees to choose insurance with the terms, cost and coverage that best fit their needs, while still receiving financial support as determined by AT T. Future changes in support, if any, will be based on a number of factors such as business conditions, government actions, marketplace changes and the general consumer inflation rate.

In the fourth quarter of 2014, we changed the method we use to estimate the service and interest components of net periodic benefit cost for pension (as of October 1, 2014) and other postretirement benefits (as of December 31, 2014). This change did not affect the measurement of our total benefit obligations or our annual net periodic benefit cost as the change in service and interest costs was completely offset in the actuarial (gain) loss reported. This change compared to the previous method resulted in a decrease of $150 in the service and interest components for pension cost in the fourth quarter of 2014. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the change resulted in an incremental decrease of $740 in service and interest components for pension and postretirement costs. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2014, we estimated these service and interest cost components utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the beginning of the period. We have elected to utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. We have made this change to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows to the corresponding spot yield curve rates. We have accounted for this change as a change in accounting estimate that is inseparable from a change in accounting principle and accordingly have accounted for it prospectively.

Obligations and Funded Status

For defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the "projected benefit obligation," the actuarial present value, as of our December 31 measurement date, of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered to that date. The amount of benefit to be paid depends on a number of future events incorporated into the pension benefit formula, including estimates of the average life of employees/survivors and average years of service rendered. It is measured based on assumptions concerning future interest rates and future employee compensation levels.

For postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the "accumulated postretirement benefit obligation," the actuarial present value as of a date of all future benefits attributed under the terms of the postretirement benefit plan to employee service rendered to the valuation date.

74

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The following table presents this reconciliation and shows the change in the projected benefit obligation for the years ended December 31:

The following table presents the change in the value of plan assets for the years ended December 31 and the plans' funded status at December 31:

In July 2014, the U.S. Department of Labor published in the Federal Register their final retroactive approval of our September 9, 2013 voluntary contribution of a preferred equity interest in AT T Mobility II LLC, the primary holding company for our wireless business, to the trust used to pay pension benefits under our qualified pension plans. The preferred equity interest had a value of $9,104 on the contribution date and was valued at $8,714 at December 31, 2015. The trust is entitled to receive cumulative cash distributions of $560 per annum, which will be distributed quarterly in equal amounts and will be accounted for as contributions. We distributed $560 to the trust during 2015. So long as we make the distributions, we will have no limitations on our ability to declare a dividend, or repurchase shares. This preferred equity interest is a plan asset under ERISA and is recognized as such in the plan's separate financial statements. However, because the preferred equity interest is not unconditionally transferable to an unrelated party (see Note 14), it is not reflected in plan assets in our consolidated financial statements and instead has been eliminated in consolidation. At the time of the contribution of the preferred equity interest, we made an additional cash contribution of $175 and have agreed to annual cash contributions of $175 no later than the due date for our federal income tax return for each of 2014, 2015 and 2016. We made such a contribution of $175 in 2015. These contributions combined with our existing pension assets are in excess of 90% of the pension obligation at December 31, 2015.

75

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

As noted above, this preferred equity interest represents a plan asset of our pension trust, which is recognized in the separate financial statements of our pension plan as a qualified plan asset for funding purposes. The following table presents a reconciliation of our pension plan assets recognized in the consolidated financial   statements of the Company with the net assets available for benefits included in the separate financial statements of the pension plan at December 31: 

Amounts recognized on our consolidated balance sheets at December 31 are listed below:

The accumulated benefit obligation for our pension plans represents the actuarial present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation as of a certain date and does not include an assumption about future compensation levels. The accumulated benefit obligation for our pension plans was $54,007 at December 31, 2015, and $57,949 at December 31, 2014.

Net Periodic Benefit Cost and Other Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income

Periodic Benefit Costs

Our combined net pension and postretirement (credit) cost recognized in our consolidated statements of income was $(2,821), $7,232 and $(7,390) for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. A portion of pension and postretirement benefit costs is capitalized as part of the benefit load on internal construction and capital expenditures, providing a small reduction in the net expense recorded. The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit cost:

76

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Other Changes in Benefit Obligations Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income

The following table presents the after-tax changes in benefit obligations recognized in OCI and the after-tax prior service credits that were amortized from OCI into net periodic benefit costs:

The estimated prior service credits that will be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are $103 ($64 net of tax) for pension and $1,277 ($792 net of tax) for postretirement benefits.

Assumptions

In determining the projected benefit obligation and the net pension and postretirement benefit cost, we used the following significant weighted-average assumptions:

We recognize gains and losses on pension and postretirement plan assets and obligations immediately in our operating results. These gains and losses are measured annually as of December 31 and accordingly will be recorded during the fourth quarter, unless earlier remeasurements are required.

Discount Rate   Our assumed weighted-average discount rate for pension and postretirement benefits of 4.60% and 4.50% respectively, at December 31, 2015, reflects the hypothetical rate at which the projected benefit obligation could be effectively settled or paid out to participants. We determined our discount rate based on a range of factors, including a yield curve composed of the rates of return on several hundred high-quality, fixed income corporate bonds available at the measurement date and corresponding to the related expected durations of future cash outflows. These bonds were all rated at least Aa3 or AA- by one of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, denominated in U.S. dollars, and neither callable, convertible nor index linked. For the year ended December 31, 2015, when compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, we increased our pension discount rate by 0.30%, resulting in a decrease in our pension plan benefit obligation of $1,977 and increased our postretirement discount rate 0.30%, resulting in a decrease in our postretirement benefit obligation of $854. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we decreased our pension discount rate by 0.70%, resulting in an increase in our pension plan benefit obligation of $4,854 and decreased our  postretirement discount rates by 0.80%, resulting in an increase in our postretirement benefit obligation of $2,786.

77

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of the service and interest components of net periodic benefit costs for pension and other postretirement benefits. Under this approach, we apply discounting using individual spot rates from a yield curve composed of the rates of return on several hundred high-quality, fixed income corporate bonds available at the measurement date. These spot rates align to each of the projected benefit obligations and service cost cash flows. The service cost component relates to the active participants in the plan, so the relevant cash flows on which to apply the yield curve are considerably longer in duration on average than the total projected benefit obligation cash flows, which also include benefit payments to retirees. Interest cost is computed by multiplying each spot rate by the corresponding discounted projected benefit obligation cash flows. The full yield curve approach reduces any actuarial gains and losses based upon interest rate expectations (e.g., built-in gains in interest cost in an upward sloping yield curve scenario), or gains and losses merely resulting from the timing and magnitude of cash outflows associated with our benefit obligations. Neither the annual measurement of our total benefit obligations nor annual net benefit cost is affected by the full yield curve approach. For our pension benefits, the single effective interest rate used for periodic service and interest costs during 2015 are 4.60% and 3.30%, respectively. For our postretirement benefits, the single effective interest rate used for periodic service and interest costs during 2015 are 4.60% and 3.30%.

Expected Long-Term Rate of Return   Our expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets is 7.75% for 2016 and 2015. Our expected long-term rate of return on postretirement plan assets is 5.75% for 2016 and 2015. Our long-term rates of return reflect the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested, or to be invested, to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligations. In setting the long-term assumed rate of return, management considers capital markets future expectations and the asset mix of the plans' investments. Actual long-term return can, in relatively stable markets, also serve as a factor in determining future expectations. We consider many factors that include, but are not limited to, historical returns on plan assets, current market information on long-term returns (e.g., long-term bond rates) and current and target asset allocations between asset categories. The target asset allocation is determined based on consultations with external investment advisers. If all other factors were to remain unchanged, we expect that a 0.50% decrease in the expected long-term rate of return would cause 2016 combined pension and postretirement cost to increase $232. However, any differences in the rate and actual returns will be included with the actuarial gain or loss recorded in the fourth quarter when our plans are remeasured.

Composite Rate of Compensation Increase   Our expected composite rate of compensation increase cost of 3.10% in 2015 and 3.00% in 2014 reflects the long-term average rate of salary increases.

Mortality Tables   At December 31, 2015 we updated our assumed mortality rates to reflect our best estimate of future mortality, which decreased our pension obligation by $859 and decreased our postretirement obligations by $274. At December 31, 2014 we updated our assumed mortality rates, which increased our pension obligation by $1,442 and increased our postretirement obligations by $53.

Healthcare Cost Trend   Our healthcare cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. Due to historical experience, updated expectations of healthcare industry inflation and recent prescription drug cost experience, our 2016 assumed annual healthcare prescription drug cost trend for non-Medicare eligible participants will increase to 6.25%, trending to our ultimate trend rate of 4.50% in 2023 and for Medicare-eligible participants will remain at an assumed annual and ultimate trend rate of 4.50%. This change in assumption increased our obligation by $23. In 2015 our assumed annual healthcare prescription drug cost trend rate for non-Medicare eligible participants was 6.00%, trending to our ultimate trend rate of 4.50% in 2021.   Medicare-eligible retirees who receive access to retiree health insurance coverage through a private insurance marketplace are not subject to assumed healthcare trend. In addition to the healthcare cost trend in 2015, we assumed an annual 2.50% growth in administrative expenses and an annual 3.00% growth in dental claims.

78

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

A one percentage-point change in the assumed combined medical and dental cost trend rate would have the following effects:

One Percentage-

One Percentage-

Point Increase

Point Decrease

Increase (decrease) in total of service and interest cost components

$

58

$

(51

)

Increase (decrease) in accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

660

(590

)

Plan Assets

Plan assets consist primarily of private and public equity, government and corporate bonds, and real assets (real estate and natural resources). The asset allocations of the pension plans are maintained to meet ERISA requirements. Any plan contributions, as determined by ERISA regulations, are made to a pension trust for the benefit of plan participants. As part of our voluntary contribution of the Mobility preferred equity interest, we will contribute $735 of cash distributions during 2016. We do not have additional significant required contributions to our pension plans for 2016.

We maintain VEBA trusts to partially fund postretirement benefits; however, there are no ERISA or regulatory requirements that these postretirement benefit plans be funded annually.

The principal investment objectives are to ensure the availability of funds to pay pension and postretirement benefits as they become due under a broad range of future economic scenarios, to maximize long-term investment return with an acceptable level of risk based on our pension and postretirement obligations, and to be broadly diversified across and within the capital markets to insulate asset values against adverse experience in any one market. Each asset class has broadly diversified characteristics. Substantial biases toward any particular investing style or type of security are sought to be avoided by managing the aggregation of all accounts with portfolio benchmarks. Asset and benefit obligation forecasting studies are conducted periodically, generally every two to three years, or when significant changes have occurred in market conditions, benefits, participant demographics or funded status. Decisions regarding investment policy are made with an understanding of the effect of asset allocation on funded status, future contributions and projected expenses. The current asset allocation policy and risk level for the pension plan and VEBA assets is based on studies completed and approved during 2013 and 2015, respectively, and is reflected in the table below.

The plans' weighted-average asset targets and actual allocations as a percentage of plan assets, including the notional exposure of future contracts by asset categories at December 31, are as follows:

At December 31, 2015, AT T securities represented less than 0.5% of assets held by our pension plans and 6% of assets (primarily common stock) held by our VEBA trusts included in these financial statements.

Investment Valuation

Investments are stated at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. See "Fair Value Measurements" for further discussion.

Investments in securities traded on a national securities exchange are valued at the last reported sales price on the last business day of the year. If no sale was reported on that date, they are valued at the last reported bid price. Investments in securities not traded on a national securities exchange are valued using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows. Shares of registered investment companies are valued based on quoted market prices, which represent the net asset value of shares held at year-end. Over-the-counter (OTC) securities are valued at the bid price or the average of the bid and asked price on the last business day of the year from published sources where available and, if not available, from other sources considered reliable. Depending on the types and contractual terms of OTC derivatives, fair value is measured using valuation techniques, such as the Black-Scholes option pricing model, simulation models or a combination of various models.

79

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Common/collective trust funds, pooled separate accounts and other commingled (103-12) investment entities are valued at quoted redemption values that represent the net asset values of units held at year-end which management has determined approximates fair value.

Alternative investments, including investments in private equity, real estate, natural resources (included in real assets), mezzanine and distressed debt (included in partnerships/joint ventures), limited partnership interests, certain fixed income securities and hedge funds do not have readily available market values. These estimated fair values may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market for these investments existed, and such differences could be material. Alternative investments not having an established market are valued at fair value as determined by the investment managers. Private equity, mezzanine and distressed investments are often valued initially by the investment managers based upon cost. Thereafter, investment managers may use available market data to determine adjustments to carrying value based upon observations of the trading multiples of public companies considered comparable to the private companies being valued. Such market data used to determine adjustments to accounts for cash flows and company-specified issues include current operating performance and future expectations of the investments, changes in market outlook, and the third-party financing environment. Private equity partnership holdings may also include publicly held equity investments in liquid markets that are marked-to-market at quoted public values, subject to adjustments for large positions held. Real estate and natural resource direct investments are valued either at amounts based upon appraisal reports prepared by independent third-party appraisers or at amounts as determined by internal appraisals performed by the investment manager, which are reasonable as determined by the review of an external valuation consultant. Fixed income securities valuation is based upon pricing provided by an external pricing service when such pricing is available. In the event a security is too thinly traded or narrowly held to be priced by such a pricing service, or the price furnished by such external pricing services is deemed inaccurate, the managers will then solicit broker/dealer quotes (spreads or prices). In cases where such quotes are available, fair value will be determined based solely upon such quotes provided. Managers will typically use a pricing matrix for determining fair value in cases where an approved pricing service or a broker/dealer is unable to provide a fair valuation for specific fixed-rate securities such as many private placements. New fixed-rate securities will be initially valued at cost at the time of purchase. Thereafter, each bond will be assigned a spread from a pricing matrix that will be added to current Treasury rates. The pricing matrix derives spreads for each bond based on external market data, including the current credit rating for the bonds, credit spreads to Treasuries for each credit rating, sector add-ons or credits, issue-specific add-ons or credits as well as call or other options.

Purchases and sales of securities are recorded as of the trade date. Realized gains and losses on sales of securities are determined on the basis of average cost. Interest income is recognized on the accrual basis. Dividend income is recognized on the ex-dividend date.

Non-interest bearing cash and overdrafts are valued at cost, which approximates fair value.

Fair Value Measurements

See Note 10 for a discussion of fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value.

80

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The following tables set forth by level, within the fair value hierarchy, the pension and postretirement assets and liabilities at fair value as of December 31, 2015:

81

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The tables below set forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Level 3 pension and postretirement assets for the year ended December 31, 2015:

82

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The following tables set forth by level, within the fair value hierarchy, the pension and postretirement assets and liabilities at fair value as of December 31, 2014:

83

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The tables below set forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Level 3 pension and postretirement assets for the year ended December 31, 2014:

Estimated Future Benefit Payments

Expected benefit payments are estimated using the same assumptions used in determining our benefit obligation at December 31, 2015. Because benefit payments will depend on future employment and compensation levels, average years employed, average life spans, and payment elections, among other factors, changes in any of these factors could significantly affect these expected amounts. The following table provides expected benefit payments under our pension and postretirement plans:

Supplemental Retirement Plans

We also provide certain senior- and middle-management employees with nonqualified, unfunded supplemental retirement and savings plans. While these plans are unfunded, we have assets in a designated nonbankruptcy remote trust that are independently managed and used to provide for these benefits. These plans include supplemental pension benefits as well as compensation-deferral plans, some of which include a corresponding match by us based on a percentage of the compensation deferral.

We use the same significant assumptions for the composite rate of compensation increase in determining our projected benefit obligation and the net pension and postemployment benefit cost. Our discount rates of 4.4% at December 31, 2015 and 4.1% at December 31, 2014 were calculated using the same methodologies used in calculating the discount rate for our qualified pension and postretirement benefit plans. The following tables provide the plans' benefit obligations and fair value of assets at December 31 and the components of the supplemental retirement pension benefit cost. The net amounts are recorded as "Other noncurrent liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets.

84

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

The following table provides information for our supplemental retirement plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at December 31:

The following tables present the components of net periodic benefit cost and other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in OCI:

The estimated prior service credit for our supplemental retirement plan benefits that will be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year is $1.

Deferred compensation expense was $122 in 2015, $121 in 2014 and $122 in 2013. Our deferred compensation liability, included in "Other noncurrent liabilities," was $1,221 at December 31, 2015, and $1,156 at December 31, 2014.

Contributory Savings Plans

We maintain contributory savings plans that cover substantially all employees. Under the savings plans, we match in cash or company stock a stated percentage of eligible employee contributions, subject to a specified ceiling. There are no debt-financed shares held by the Employee Stock Ownership Plans, allocated or unallocated.

Our match of employee contributions to the savings plans is fulfilled with purchases of our stock on the open market or company cash. Benefit cost is based on the cost of shares or units allocated to participating employees' accounts and was $653, $654 and $654 for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

NOTE 13. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS

Under our various plans, senior and other management employees and nonemployee directors have received nonvested stock and stock units. In conjunction with the acquisition of DIRECTV, restricted stock units issued under DIRECTV plans were converted to AT T shares. The shares will vest over a period of one to four years in accordance with the terms of those plans. We do not intend to issue any additional grants under the DIRECTV plans. Any future grants will be made under the AT T plans.

We grant performance stock units, which are nonvested stock units, based upon our stock price at the date of grant and award them in the form of AT T common stock and cash at the end of a three-year period, subject to the achievement of certain performance goals. We treat the cash portion of these awards as a liability. We grant forfeitable restricted stock and stock units, which are valued at the market price of our common stock at the date of grant and vest typically over a two- to ten-year period. We also grant other nonvested stock units and award them in cash at the end of a three-year period, subject to the achievement of certain market based conditions. As of December 31, 2015, we were authorized to issue up to approximately 109 million shares of common stock (in addition to shares that may be issued upon exercise of outstanding options or upon vesting of performance stock units or other nonvested stock units) to officers, employees and directors pursuant to these various plans.

85

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

We account for our share-based payment arrangements based on the fair value of the awards on their respective grant date, which may affect our ability to fully realize the value shown on our consolidated balance sheets of deferred tax assets associated with compensation expense. We record a valuation allowance when our future taxable income is not expected to be sufficient to recover the asset. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the current stock price of our common shares will rise to levels sufficient to realize the entire tax benefit currently reflected on our consolidated balance sheets. However, to the extent we generate excess tax benefits (i.e., that additional tax benefits in excess of the deferred taxes associated with compensation expense previously recognized) the potential future impact on income would be reduced.

The compensation cost recognized for those plans was included in operating expenses in our consolidated statements of income, as reflected in the table below. The total income tax benefit recognized in the consolidated statements of income for share-based payment arrangements was $172 for 2015, compared to $122 for 2014 and $175 for 2013.

A summary of the status of our nonvested stock units as of December 31, 2015, and changes during the year then ended is presented as follows (shares in millions):

As of December 31, 2015, there was $563 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based payment arrangements granted. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.15 years. The total fair value of shares vested during the year was $450 for 2015, compared to $327 for 2014 and $336 for 2013.

It is our policy to satisfy share option exercises using our treasury stock. Cash received from stock option exercises was $46 for 2015, $43 for 2014 and $135 for 2013.

NOTE 14. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Stock Repurchase Program   From time to time, we repurchase shares of common stock for distribution through our employee benefit plans or in connection with certain acquisitions. In July 2012, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 300 million shares and we completed that program in May 2013. In March 2013, our Board of Directors approved a second authorization to repurchase 300 million shares, under which we repurchased shares during 2014. In March 2014, our Board of Directors approved a third authorization to repurchase up to 300 million shares of our common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we had repurchased approximately 8 million shares for distribution through our employee benefit plans totaling $269 under these authorizations. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we had repurchased approximately 48 million shares totaling $1,617 under these authorizations.

To implement these authorizations, we used open market repurchase programs, relying on Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 where feasible.

86

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Authorized Shares   There are 14 billion authorized common shares of AT T stock and 10 million authorized preferred shares of AT T stock. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, no preferred shares were outstanding.

Dividend Declarations   In December 2015, the Company declared an increase in its quarterly dividend to $0.48 per share of common stock. In December 2014, the Company declared an increase in its quarterly dividend to $0.47 per share of common stock.

Treasury Stock   As part of the acquisition of DIRECTV, we issued 954,407,524 shares to DIRECTV shareholders, which reduced our treasury stock balance by $34,328.

Preferred Equity Interest     The preferred equity interest discussed in Note 12 is not transferable by the trust except through its put and call features, and therefore has been eliminated in consolidation. After a period of five years from the contribution or, if earlier, the date upon which the pension plan trust is fully funded as determined under GAAP, AT T has a right to purchase from the pension plan trust some or all of the preferred equity interest at the greater of their fair market value or minimum liquidation value plus any unpaid cumulative dividends. In addition, AT T will have the right to purchase the preferred equity interest in the event AT T's ownership of Mobility is less than 50% or there is a transaction that results in the transfer of 50% or more of the pension plan trust's assets to an entity not under common control with AT T (collectively, a change of control). The pension plan trust has the right to require AT T to purchase the preferred equity interest at the greater of their fair market value or minimum liquidation value plus any unpaid cumulative dividends, and in installments, as specified in the contribution agreement upon the occurrence of any of the following: (1) at any time if the ratio of debt to total capitalization of Mobility exceeds that of AT T, (2) the date on which AT T Inc. is rated below investment grade for two consecutive calendar quarters, (3) upon a change of control if AT T does not exercise its purchase option, or (4) at any time after a seven-year period from the contribution date. In the event AT T elects or is required to purchase the preferred equity interest, AT T may elect to settle the purchase price in cash or shares of AT T common stock or a combination thereof. Because the preferred equity interest was not considered outstanding for accounting purposes at year-end, it did not affect the calculation of earnings per share.

NOTE 15. SALES OF EQUIPMENT INSTALLMENT RECEIVABLES

We offer our customers the option to purchase certain wireless devices in installments over a period of up to 30 months, with the right to trade in the original equipment for a new device within a set period and have the remaining unpaid balance satisfied. As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, gross equipment installment receivables of $5,719 and $4,265 were included on our consolidated balance sheets, of which $3,239 and $2,514 are notes receivable that are included in "Accounts receivable - net."

In 2014, we entered into the first of a series of uncommitted agreements pertaining to the sale of equipment installment receivables and related security with Citibank and various other relationship banks as purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under these agreements, we transferred the receivables to the Purchasers for cash and additional consideration upon settlement of the receivables, referred to as the deferred purchase price. Under the terms of the arrangements, we continue to bill and collect on behalf of our customers for the receivables sold. To date, we have collected and remitted approximately $4,520 (net of fees), of which $580 was returned as deferred purchase price.

The following table sets forth a summary of equipment installment receivables sold during 2015 and 2014:

The deferred purchase price was initially recorded at estimated fair value, which was based on remaining installment payments expected to be collected, adjusted by the expected timing and value of device trade-ins, and is subsequently carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The estimated value of the device trade-ins considers prices offered to us by independent third parties that contemplate changes in value after the launch of a device model. The fair value measurements used are considered Level 3 under the Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure framework (see Note 10).

87

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

During 2015, we repurchased installment receivables previously sold to the Purchasers, with a fair value of $685. These transactions reduced our current deferred purchase price receivable by $534, resulting in a gain of $151 in 2015. This gain is included in "Selling, general and administrative" in the consolidated statements of income.

At December 31, 2015, our deferred purchase price receivable was $2,961, of which $1,772 is included in "Other current assets" on our consolidated balance sheets, with the remainder in "Other Assets." At December 31, 2014, our deferred purchase price receivable was $1,606, which is included in "Other Assets." Our maximum exposure to loss as a result of selling these equipment installment receivables is limited to the amount of our deferred purchase price at any point in time.

The sales of equipment installment receivables did not have a material impact on our consolidated statements of income or to "Total Assets" reported on our consolidated balance sheets. We reflect the cash flows related to the arrangement as operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows because the cash received from the Purchasers upon both the sale of the receivables and the collection of the deferred purchase price is not subject to significant interest rate risk.

NOTE 16. TOWER TRANSACTION

On December 16, 2013, we closed our transaction with Crown Castle International Corp. (Crown Castle) in which Crown Castle gained the exclusive rights to lease and operate 9,048 wireless towers and purchased 627 of our wireless towers for $4,827 in cash. The leases have various terms with an average length of approximately 28 years. As the leases expire, Crown Castle will have fixed price purchase options for these towers totaling approximately $4,200, based on their estimated fair market values at the end of the lease terms. We sublease space on the towers from Crown Castle for an initial term of 10 years at current market rates, subject to optional renewals in the future.

We determined our continuing involvement with the tower assets prevented us from achieving sale-leaseback accounting for the transaction, and we accounted for the cash proceeds from Crown Castle as a financing obligation on our consolidated balance sheets. We record interest on the financing obligation using the effective interest method at a rate of approximately 3.9%. The financing obligation is increased by interest expense and estimated future net cash flows generated and retained by Crown Castle from operation of the tower sites, and reduced by our contractual payments. We continue to include the tower assets in Property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance sheets and depreciate them accordingly. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the tower assets had a balance of $960 and $999, respectively. Our depreciation expense for these assets was $39 for 2015, and $39 for 2014. The impact of the transaction on our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2013 was not material.

Payments made to Crown Castle under this arrangement were $225 for 2015. At December 31, 2015, the future minimum payments under the sublease arrangement are $230 for 2016, $234 for 2017, $239 for 2018, $244 for 2019, $248 for 2020, and $2,304 thereafter.

NOTE 17. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

We are party to numerous lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business. In evaluating these matters on an ongoing basis, we take into account amounts already accrued on the balance sheet. In our opinion, although the outcomes of these proceedings are uncertain, they should not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

We have contractual obligations to purchase certain goods or services from various other parties. Our purchase obligations are expected to be approximately $22,929 in 2016, $9,437 in total for 2017 and 2018, $6,159 in total for 2019 and 2020 and $10,174 in total for years thereafter.

See Note 10 for a discussion of collateral and credit-risk contingencies.

88

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 18. ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues in 2015, 2014 or 2013.

Labor Contracts   As of January 31, 2016, we employed approximately 281,000 persons. Approximately 45 percent of our employees are represented by the Communications Workers of America, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or other unions. Four-year contracts covering approximately 24,000 traditional wireline employees in our Southeast region were ratified on December 4, 2015. Contracts covering approximately 9,000 mobility employees in the Southwest region and nearly 16,000 traditional wireline employees in our West region will expire in 2016. After expiration of the current agreements, work stoppages or labor disruptions may occur in the absence of new contracts or other agreements being reached. A separate contract covering only benefits with approximately 40,000 employees in our mobility business expires in 2016, though there is a no strike/no lock-out clause. Contracts covering wages and other non-benefit working terms for these mobility employees are structured on a regional basis.

89

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  ( continued)

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

NOTE 19. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

The following tables represent our quarterly financial results:

90

Report of Management

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The integrity and objectivity of the data in these financial statements, including estimates and judgments relating to matters not concluded by year end, are the responsibility of management, as is all other information included in the Annual Report, unless otherwise indicated.

The financial statements of AT T Inc. (AT T) have been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. Management has made available to Ernst   Young LLP all of AT T's financial records and related data, as well as the minutes of stockholders' and directors' meetings. Furthermore, management believes that all representations made to Ernst   Young LLP during its audit were valid and appropriate.

Management maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by AT T is recorded, processed, summarized, accumulated and communicated to its management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure, and reported within the time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms.

Management also seeks to ensure the objectivity and integrity of its financial data by the careful selection of its managers, by organizational arrangements that provide an appropriate division of responsibility and by communication programs aimed at ensuring that its policies, standards and managerial authorities are understood throughout the organization.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets periodically with management, the internal auditors and the independent auditors to review the manner in which they are performing their respective responsibilities and to discuss auditing, internal accounting controls and financial reporting matters. Both the internal auditors and the independent auditors periodically meet alone with the Audit Committee and have access to the Audit Committee at any time.

Assessment of Internal Control

The management of AT T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AT T's internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company's management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.

AT T management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  (2013 framework). We have excluded from the scope of our assessment of internal control over financial reporting the operations and related assets of DIRECTV and Mexico wireless operations (Mexico), which we acquired in 2015. At December 31, 2015 and for the period from acquisition through December 31, 2015, total assets and operating revenues subject to DIRECTV's internal control over financial reporting represented 20.3% and 9.9% of AT T's consolidated total assets and total revenues as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015 and for the period from acquisition through December 31, 2015, total assets and operating revenues subject to Mexico's internal control over financial reporting represented 1.6% and 1.3% of AT T's consolidated total assets and total revenues as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015. Based on its assessment, AT T management believes that, as of December 31, 2015, the company's internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

Ernst   Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included in this Annual Report, has issued an attestation report on the company's internal control over financial reporting.

/s/    Randall Stephenson                                                                                                                                                                                                  /s/    John J. Stephens   

Randall Stephenson                                                                                                                                                                                                      John J. Stephens 

Chairman of the Board,                                                                                                                                                                                              Senior Executive Vice President and 

Chief Executive Officer and President                                                                                                                                                         Chief Financial Officer 

Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AT T Inc.   
   
 We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AT T Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  
   
 We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
   
 In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  
   
 As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has elected to change its method of accounting for customer set-up and installation costs for its video, broadband Internet and wireline voice services in 2015.  
   
 We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 18, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  

/s/ Ernst and Young LLP   
 Dallas, Texas  
  February 18, 2016

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AT T Inc.   
   
 We have audited AT T Inc.'s (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  
   
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
   
 A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
   
 Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
   
 As indicated in the accompanying Report of Management, management's assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of its DIRECTV and Mexico wireless businesses, which are included in the December 31, 2015 consolidated financial statements of the Company. DIRECTV constituted 20.3% of total assets and 9.9% of total revenues for the year then ended. The Mexico wireless businesses constituted 1.6% of total assets and 1.3% of total revenues for the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Company did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of DIRECTV or the Mexico wireless businesses.  
   
 In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the COSO criteria.  
   
 We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 and our report dated February 18, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  

/s/ Ernst and Young LLP 

Dallas, Texas  
  February 18, 2016

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 6
 ex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF AT&T INC.

Exhibit 21

PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES OF

AT T INC., AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015

2015 AT T INC. REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ("SEC")

FORM 10-K filed February 18, 2016

Legal Name 

State of  

Incorporation/Formation 

Conducts Business Under 

Illinois Bell Telephone

Company

Illinois

AT T Illinois;

AT T Wholesale

Indiana Bell Telephone

Company, Incorporated

Indiana

AT T Indiana;

AT T Wholesale

Michigan Bell

Telephone Company

Michigan

AT T Michigan;

AT T Wholesale

Nevada Bell

Telephone Company

Nevada

AT T Nevada;

AT T Wholesale

Pacific Bell

Telephone Company

California

AT T California;

AT T Wholesale;

AT T DataComm

SBC Internet Services, LLC

California

AT T Internet Services

SBC Long Distance, LLC

Delaware

AT T Long Distance

AT T Teleholdings, Inc.

Delaware

AT T Midwest;

AT T West;

AT T East

Southwestern Bell

Telephone Company

Delaware

AT T Arkansas; AT T Kansas;

AT T Missouri; AT T Oklahoma;

AT T Texas; AT T Southwest;

AT T DataComm; AT T Wholesale

The Ohio Bell

Telephone Company

Ohio

AT T Ohio;

AT T Wholesale

Wisconsin Bell, Inc.

Wisconsin

AT T Wisconsin;

AT T Wholesale

AT T Corp.

New York

AT T Corp.; ACC Business;

AT T Wholesale; Lucky Dog Phone Co.;

AT T Business Solutions;

AT T Advanced Solutions;

AT T Diversified Group;

AT T Mobile and Business Solutions 

AT T Communications of

New York, Inc.

New York

same

Teleport Communications

America, LLC

Delaware

same

BellSouth, LLC

Georgia

AT T South

BellSouth Telecommunications,

LLC

Georgia

AT T Alabama

AT T Florida

AT T Georgia

AT T Kentucky

AT T Louisiana

AT T Mississippi

AT T North Carolina

AT T South Carolina

AT T Tennessee

AT T Southeast

AT T Mobility LLC

Delaware

AT T Mobility

AT T Mobility II LLC

Delaware

AT T Mobility

New Cingular Wireless

Services, Inc.

Delaware

AT T Mobility

Cricket Wireless LLC

Delaware

same

AT T Mobility Group B.V.

The Netherlands

same

DIRECTV, LLC

California

same

DIRECTV Enterprises, LLC

Delaware

same

DIRECTV Latin America, LLC

Delaware

same

SKY Brasil Servi os Ltda.

Brazil

same

DIRECTV Colombia Ltda.

Colombia

same

DIRECTV Argentina S.A.

Argentina

same

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 ex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of AT T Inc. (AT T) of our reports dated February 18, 2016, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of AT T and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of AT T, included in the 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders of AT T.

Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of AT T listed in Item 15(a). This schedule is the responsibility of AT T's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as to which the date is February 18, 2016, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports dated February 18, 2016, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of AT T and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of AT T, incorporated by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of AT T for the year ended December 31, 2015 and the financial statement schedule of AT T included herein, in the following Registration Statements:

/s/  Ernst and Young    

Dallas, Texas

February 18, 2016

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 ex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul  W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

January 24, 2016 

/s/ Randall L. Stephenson  

Date

Randall L. Stephenson

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

January 29, 2016 

/s/ Samuel A. Di Piazza, Jr.  

Date

Samuel A. Di Piazza, Jr.

Director

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

January 29, 2016 

/s/ Michael B. McCallister  

Date

Michael B. McCallister

Director

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24  

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

THAT, AT T INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

NOW, THEREFORE, each of the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Randall L. Stephenson, Jonathan P. Klug, David R. McAtee II, John J. Stephens, Paul W. Stephens, or any one of them, all of the City of Dallas and State of Texas, the attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand the date set forth opposite their name.

January 29, 2016 

/s/ Laura D'Andrea Tyson   

Date

Laura D'Andrea Tyson

Director

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 ex31_1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATION 

I, Randall Stephenson, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of AT T Inc.;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.

The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a)

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b)

Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c)

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d)

Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5.

The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)

All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b)

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 18, 2016

/s/ Randall Stephenson    ..                  .  

Randall Stephenson  
  Chairman of the Board,

Chief Executive Officer and President

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 ex31_2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATION 

I, John J. Stephens, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of AT T Inc.;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.

The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a)

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b)

Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c)

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d)

Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5.

The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)

All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b)

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 18, 2016

/s/ John J. Stephens    .  

John J. Stephens  
  Senior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 11
 ex32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION

Certification of Periodic Financial Reports 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, each of the undersigned officers of AT T Inc. (the "Company") hereby certifies that the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (the "Report") fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

.  

By:      /s/ Randall Stephenson 

Randall Stephenson

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer

and President

By:      /s/ John J. Stephens 

John J. Stephens

Senior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.  This certification shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to liability under that section.  This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act except to the extent this Exhibit 32 is expressly and specifically incorporated by reference in any such filing.

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to AT T Inc. and will be retained by AT T Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32>

<EX-99>
 12
 ex99.htm
 SUPPLEMENTAL INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Exhibit 99

</EX-99>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 t-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 t-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 t-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 t-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 t-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 t-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

