<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090302_10-K_edgar_data_19617_0000950123-09-003840_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6050043</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1964978</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>185818</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2246810</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>483</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>24</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-09-003840.hdr.sgml : 20090302
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090302161208
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-09-003840
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		35
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090302
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090302

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			J P MORGAN CHASE & CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000019617
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				132624428
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05805
		FILM NUMBER:		09647575

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		270 PARK AVE
		STREET 2:		38TH FL
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2122706000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		270 PARK AVENUE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CHASE MANHATTAN CORP /DE/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960402

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CHEMICAL BANKING CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CHEMICAL NEW YORK CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880508

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Hlm5LSW4+y9ivdOXNYzjcxFyIAdAYSOGEEMamGJIQ+eEEBOhHHjrm0RsbY4jaD/N
 rwkMdZCfrTGVHAYQk0vWAA==

 0000950123-09-003840.txt : 20090302

10-K
 1
 y74757e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

Annual report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of 
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

JPMorgan Chase   Co. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware (State
or other jurisdiction of  incorporation or organization)

13-2624428 
 (I.R.S. employer 
identification no.)   

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (212) 270-6000  
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of each class   
       
       Name of each exchange on which registered   

Common stock 

The New York Stock Exchange 

The London Stock Exchange 

The Tokyo Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares each representing a one-fourth interest in a share of 6.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares each representing a one-fourth interest in a share of 5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares each representing a one-fourth interest in a share of 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series J 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of 7.00% Capital Securities, Series J, of J.P. Morgan Chase Capital X 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of 5 7/8% Capital Securities, Series K, of J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XI 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of 6.25% Capital Securities, Series L, of J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XII 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of 6.20% Capital Securities, Series N, of J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XIV 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of 6.35% Capital Securities, Series P, of J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XVI 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of 6.625% Capital Securities, Series S, of J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XIX 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of 6.875% Capital Securities, Series X, of J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XXIV 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Capital Securities, Series Z, of JPMorgan Chase Capital XXVI 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of 7.20% Preferred Securities of BANK ONE Capital VI 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Guarantee of 7.8% Preferred Securities of Bear Stearns Capital Trust III 

The New York Stock Exchange 

JPMorgan
Market Participation Notes Linked to S P
500    Index due March 31, 2009 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

Capped Quarterly Observation Notes Linked to S P 500    Index due July 7, 2009 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

Capped Quarterly Observation Notes Linked to S P 500    Index due September 21, 2009 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

Consumer Price Indexed Securities due January 15, 2010 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

Principal Protected Notes Linked to S P 500    Index due September 30, 2010 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

KEYnotes Exchange Traded Notes Linked to the First Trust Enhanced 130/30 Large Cap Index 

NYSE Arca, Inc. 

BearLinx   SM    Alerian MLP Select Index ETN 

NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Euro Floating Rate Global Notes due July 27, 2012 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

Principal Protected Notes Linked to the Nasdaq-100 Index    Due December 22, 2009 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

Principal Protected Notes Linked to the S P 500    Index Due November 30, 2009 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

Principal Protected Notes Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average   SM    due March 23, 2011 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

Medium Term Notes Linked to a Basket of Three International Equity Indices Due August 2, 2010 

The NYSE Alternext U.S. LLC 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: none 

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.       Yes         No 

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or   Section 15(d)   of the Act.       Yes         No 

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or   15(d)   of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.       Yes         No 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this   Form 10-K   or any amendment to this   Form 10-K  .       

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 

Large accelerated filer  
      Accelerated filer   
  
     Non-accelerated filer   
 (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)        Smaller reporting company    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act).       Yes         No 

The aggregate market value of JPMorgan Chase   Co. common stock held by non-affiliates of
JPMorgan Chase   Co. on June 30, 2008 was approximately $117,255,349,362. 

Number of shares of common stock outstanding on January 31, 2009: 3,757,923,192 

Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement for the annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on May 19, 2009,
are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part
III. 

Form 10-K Index 

Page  

Part I   

Item 1

Business  

1 

Overview  

1 

Business segments  

1 

Competition  

1 

Supervision and regulation  

1 4 

Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders  equity;  

interest rates and interest differentials  

222-226 

Return on equity and assets  

26, 216 217, 222 

Securities portfolio  

227 

Loan portfolio  

82 96, 163 166, 228 232 

Summary of loan and lending-related commitments loss experience  

96 99, 166 168, 233 234 

Deposits  

191, 233 

Short-term and other borrowed funds  

235 

Item 1A

Risk factors  

4 10 

Item 1B

Unresolved SEC Staff comments  

10 

Item 2

Properties  

10 11 

Item 3

Legal proceedings  

11 16 

Item 4

Submission of matters to a vote of security holders  

16 

Executive officers of the Registrant  

16 17 

Part II   

Item 5

Market for Registrant s common equity, related stockholder  

matters and issuer purchases of equity securities  

17 18 

Item 6

Selected financial data  

18 

Item 7

Management s discussion and analysis of financial  

condition and results of operations  

18 

Item 7A

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk  

18 

Item 8

Financial statements and supplementary data  

18 

Item 9

Changes
in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial
disclosure

18 

Item 9A

Controls and procedures  

18 

Item 9B

Other information  

18 

Part III   

Item 10 

Directors, executive officers and corporate governance  

19 

Item 11

Executive compensation  

19 

Item 12

Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 

19 

Item 13

Certain relationships and related transactions, and Director independence  

19 

Item 14

Principal accounting fees and services  

19 

Part IV   

Item 15

Exhibits, financial statement schedules  

19 22 

EX-4.1.A: INDENTURE    
     EX-4.1.C: FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE    
     EX-4.4.A: JUNIOR SUBORDINATED INDENTURE    
     EX-10.3: POST-RETIREMENT COMPENSATION PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS    
     EX-10.4: 2005 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM    
     EX-10.7: EXCESS RETIREMENT PLAN    
     EX-10.8: 1995 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
     EX-10.9: EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN    
     EX-10.10: AMENDMENT TO BANK ONE CORPORATION DIRECTOR STOCK PLAN    
     EX-10.12: BANK ONE CORPORATION STOCK PERFORMANCE PLAN    
     EX-10.13: BANK ONE CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN    
     EX-10.14: BANC ONE CORPORATION 1989 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
     EX-10.15: BANC ONE CORPORATION 1995 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
     EX-10.20: FORM OF LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS    
     EX-10.21: FORM OF LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR OPERATING COMMITTEE MEMBER STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS    
     EX-10.22: FORM OF LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS    
     EX-10.23: FORM OF LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR OPERATING COMMITTEE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS    
     EX-12.1: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
     EX-12.2: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDEND REQUIREMENTS    
     EX-21.1: LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.    
     EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32: CERTIFICATION    

Table of Contents   

Part I 

ITEM 1: BUSINESS

Overview  
JPMorgan Chase   Co. ( JPMorgan Chase  or the  Firm ) is a financial
holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968. JPMorgan
Chase is one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of
America ( U.S. ),  with $2.2 trillion in assets,  $166.9 billion in stockholders  equity and operations in more than 60 countries.

JPMorgan Chase s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase
Bank,  National Association ( JPMorgan Chase Bank,  N.A. ),  a
national banking association with U.S. branches in 23 states,  and
Chase Bank USA,  National Association ( Chase Bank USA,
N.A. ),  a
national banking association that is the Firm s credit card issuing
bank. JPMorgan Chase s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc. ( JPMorgan Securities ),  the Firm s U.S. investment
banking firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase
operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries,  representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks.

The Firm s website is www.jpmorganchase.com. JPMorgan Chase
makes available free of charge,  through its website,  annual reports
on Form 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on
Form 8-K,  and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934,  as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically
files such material with,  or furnishes such material to,  the Securities
and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). The Firm has adopted,  and
posted on its website,  a Code of Ethics for its Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer,  Chief Financial Officer,  Chief Accounting Officer and
other senior financial officers.

Business segments  
JPMorgan Chase s activities are organized,  for management reporting
purposes,  into six business segments,  as well as Corporate/Private
Equity. The Firm s wholesale businesses comprise the Investment
Bank,  Commercial Banking,  Treasury   Securities Services and Asset
Management segments. The Firm s consumer businesses comprise the
Retail Financial Services and Card Services segments.

A description of the Firm s business segments and the products and
services they provide to their respective client bases is provided in
the  Business segment results  section of Management s discussion
and analysis of financial condition and results of operations
( MD A ),  beginning on page 40 and in Note 37 on page 214.

Competition  
JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in a highly competitive environment.
Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms,  investment banking companies,  merchant banks, hedge funds, insurance
companies,  mutual fund companies, credit card companies,  mortgage
banking companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile
financing companies,  leasing companies,
e-commerce and other Internet-based companies,  and a variety of
other financial services and advisory companies. JPMorgan Chase s
businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range
of their products and services,  transaction execution,  innovation and
price. Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. With respect to some of its geographies and products,  JPMorgan Chase competes globally;
with respect to others,  the Firm competes on a regional basis. The Firm s ability to compete also
depends upon its ability to attract and retain its professional and other personnel,  and on its
reputation.

The financial services industry has experienced
consolidation and convergence in recent years,  as
financial institutions involved in a broad range of
financial products and services have merged and,  in
some cases,  failed. This convergence trend is
expected to continue. Consolidation could result in
competitors of JPMorgan Chase gaining greater
capital and other resources,  such as a broader
range of products and services and geographic
diversity. It is likely that competition will
become even more intense as the Firm s businesses
continue to compete with other financial
institutions that are or may become larger or
better capitalized,  or that may have a stronger
local presence in certain geographies.

Supervision and regulation  
The Firm is subject to regulation under state and
federal laws in the U.S.,  as well as the
applicable laws of each of the various
jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Firm
does business.

Recent legislation affecting the Firm:  In response
to recent market and economic conditions,  the
United States government,  particularly the U.S.
Department of the Treasury (the  U.S.
Treasury ), the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ) and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ), have
taken a variety of extraordinary measures designed
to provide fiscal stimulus,  restore confidence in
the financial markets and to strengthen financial
institutions,  including capital injections,
guarantees of bank liabilities and the acquisition
of illiquid assets from banks. In particular on
October 3, 2008 and February 17,  2009,  the Emergency
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the  EESA ) and
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
(the  ARRA ),  respectively,  were signed into law.

The EESA
and the ARRA,  together with the U.S. Treasury s Capital
Purchase Program (which provides for direct purchases by the U.S.
Treasury of equity of financial institutions)
contain provisions limiting the Firm s ability to
pay dividends,  purchase its own common stock,  and
compensate selected officers and employees,  among
other restrictions. For further information
regarding certain of the recent limitations
applicable to the Firm,  see Regulatory Capital on
pages 71 73.

Other programs and actions taken include (1) the
U.S. Treasury s Temporary Guarantee Program for
Money Market Funds,  which is designed to guarantee
the share price of eligible money market funds that
apply to the program and pay a fee to
participate, (2) the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York s Money Market Investor Funding Facility (the
 MMIFF ), which is designed to provide liquidity to
U.S. money market investors, (3) the Federal
Reserve s Commercial Paper Funding Facility,  which
is designed to provide liquidity to term funding
markets by providing a liquidity backstop to U.S.
issuers of commercial paper, (4) the Federal
Reserve s Asset Backed Commercial Paper Money
Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility (the  AML Facility ),
which is designed to provide liquidity to money
market mutual funds under certain conditions by
providing funding to U.S. depository institutions
and bank holding companies secured by high-quality
asset-backed commercial paper they purchased from
those money market mutual funds, (5) the FDIC s
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the  TLG
Program ), which enables the FDIC to temporarily
provide a 100% guarantee of the senior debt of all
FDIC-insured institutions and their holding
companies,  as well as deposits in
noninterest-bearing transaction deposit
accounts, (6) the Federal Reserve s

1 

Table of Contents   

Part I 

Primary Dealer Credit Facility (the
 PDCF ), which is designed to foster the financial
markets generally,  was modified to expand the
eligible collateral to include any collateral
eligible for tri-party repurchase agreements, (7)
the Federal Reserve s Term Securities Lending
Facility (the  TSLF ), which is designed to promote
liquidity in the financial markets for treasuries
and other collateral,  was expanded to (a) include
all investment-grade debt securities as eligible
collateral for schedule 2 auctions and (b) increase
the frequency of schedule 2 auctions, (8) the
Federal Reserve s adoption of an interim rule that
provides an exemption,  until January 30,  2009,  to
the Federal Reserve Act to allow insured depository
institutions to provide liquidity to their
affiliates for assets typically funded in the
tri-party repurchase agreement market, (9) the
Federal Reserve s Term Auction Facility (the
 TAF ), which is designed to allow financial
institutions to borrow funds at a rate that is
below the discount rate, (10) the Federal Reserve s
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (the
 TALF ), which is designed to assist in the credit
markets in accommodating the credit needs of
consumers and small businesses by facilitating the
issuance of asset-backed securities and improving
the conditions for asset-backed securities more
generally, (11) the Federal Reserve s announcement
that it will purchase up to $600 billion of direct
obligations of housing-related
government sponsored enterprises ( GSEs ) and
mortgage-backed securities of GSEs, (12) the U.S.
Treasury s Financial Stability Plan,  which involves
(a) the creation of a public-private investment
fund of up to $1 trillion, (b) the expansion of the
TALF program up to $1 trillion under the consumer
and business lending initiative,  and (c) the
creation of a financial stability trust for bank
investment and additional transparency,  and (13)
President Obama s Home Owner Affordability and
Stability Plan,  which is intended to (a) provide
refinancing assistance for responsible homeowners
suffering from falling home prices, (b) a
comprehensive $75 billion homeowner stability
initiative,  and (c) strengthen confidence in the
GSEs. The Firm is currently participating in certain of these
programs and may become a future participant in others of these
programs, or additional new programs established by the
U.S. government.

Permissible business activities:  JPMorgan Chase
elected to become a financial holding company as of
March 13,  2000,  pursuant to the provisions of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ( GLBA ). Under regulations
implemented by the Board of Governors of the
Federal
Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve Board ), if any
depository institution controlled by a financial
holding company ceases to meet certain capital or
management standards,  the Federal Reserve Board may
impose corrective capital and/or managerial
requirements on the financial holding company and
place limitations on its ability to conduct the
broader financial activities permissible for
financial holding companies. In addition,  the
Federal Reserve Board may require divestiture of
the holding company s depository institutions if
the deficiencies

persist. The regulations also provide that if
any depository institution controlled by a
financial holding company fails to maintain a
satisfactory rating under the Community
Reinvestment Act ( CRA ), the Federal Reserve Board
must prohibit the financial holding company and its
subsidiaries from engaging in any additional
activities other than those permissible for bank
holding companies that are not financial holding
companies. At December 31,  2008,  the
depository-institution subsidiaries of JPMorgan
Chase met the capital,  management and CRA
requirements necessary to permit the Firm to
conduct the broader activities permitted under
GLBA. However,  there can be no assurance that this
will continue to be the case in the future.

Financial holding companies and bank holding
companies are required to obtain the approval of
the Federal Reserve Board before they may acquire
more than five percent of the voting shares of an
unaffiliated bank. Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal
Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of
1994 (the  Riegle-Neal Act ), the Federal Reserve
Board may approve an application for such an
acquisition without regard to whether the
transaction is prohibited under the law of any
state,  provided that the acquiring bank holding
company,  before or after the acquisition,  does not
control more than 10% of the total amount
of deposits of insured depository institutions in
the U.S. or more than 30% (or such
greater or lesser amounts as permitted under state
law) of the total deposits of insured depository
institutions in the state in which the acquired
bank has its home office or a branch.

Regulation by Federal Reserve Board under GLBA: 
Under GLBA s system of  functional regulation,  the Federal Reserve Board acts as an  umbrella
regulator,   and certain of JPMorgan Chase s
subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional
authorities based upon the particular activities
of those subsidiaries. JPMorgan Chase Bank,  N.A.,
and Chase Bank USA,  N.A.,  are regulated by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
( OCC ). See  Other supervision and regulation 
below for a further description of the regulatory
supervision to which the Firm s subsidiaries are
subject.

Dividend restrictions:  Federal law imposes
limitations on the payment of dividends by national
banks. Dividends payable by JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. and Chase Bank USA,  N.A.,  as national bank
subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase,  are limited to the
lesser of the
amounts calculated under a  recent earnings  test
and an  undivided profits  test. Under the recent
earnings test,  a dividend may not be paid if the
total of all dividends declared by a bank in any
calendar year is in excess of the current year s
net income combined with the retained net income of
the two preceding years,  unless the national bank
obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the
undivided profits test,  a dividend may not be paid
in excess of a bank s  undivided profits.  See Note
29 on page 199 for the amount of dividends that the
Firm s principal bank subsidiaries could pay,  at
January 1,  2009 and 2008,  to their respective bank
holding companies without the approval of their
banking regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described
above,  the OCC,  the Federal Reserve Board and the
FDIC have authority to prohibit or limit the
payment of dividends by the banking organizations
they supervise,  including JPMorgan Chase and its
bank and bank holding

2 

Table of Contents   

company subsidiaries, if, in the banking
regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend would
constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light
of the financial condition of the banking
organization.

For a discussion of additional dividend
restrictions relating to the Capital Purchase
Program, see Capital Purchase Program on page 72.

Capital requirements:  Federal banking regulators
have adopted risk-based capital and leverage
guidelines that require the Firm s
capital-to-assets ratios to meet certain minimum
standards.

The risk-based capital ratio is determined by
allocating assets and specified off balance sheet
financial instruments into four weighted
categories, with higher levels of capital being
required for the categories perceived as
representing greater risk. Under the guidelines,
capital is divided into two tiers: Tier 1 capital
and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital
may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital. Total
capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2
capital. Under the guidelines, banking
organizations are required to maintain a total
capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted
assets) of 8% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 4%.

The federal banking regulators also have
established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The
leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided
by adjusted average total assets (which reflects
adjustments for disallowed goodwill and certain
intangible assets). The minimum leverage ratio is 3%
for bank holding companies that are considered
 strong  under Federal Reserve Board guidelines or
which have implemented the Federal Reserve Board s
risk-based capital measure for market risk. Other
bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage
ratio of 4%. Bank holding companies may be expected
to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels,
depending upon their particular condition, risk
profile and growth plans.

The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted
by the federal banking agencies follow the Capital
Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision. In 2004, the Basel Committee published
a revision to the Accord ( Basel II ). U.S. banking
regulators published a final Basel II rule in
December 2007 which requires JPMorgan Chase to
implement Basel II at the holding company level, as
well as at certain of its key U.S. bank
subsidiaries. For additional information regarding
Basel II, see Regulatory capital on page 72.

Effective January 1, 2008, the SEC authorized
JPMorgan Securities to use the alternative method
of computing net capital for broker/dealers that
are part of Consolidated Supervised Entities as
defined by SEC rules. Accordingly, JPMorgan
Securities may calculate deductions for market risk
using its internal market risk models. For
additional information regarding the Firm s
regulatory capital, see Regulatory capital on pages
71 73 and Note 30 on pages 200 201.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act:  
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ) provides a
framework for regulation of depository institutions
and their affiliates, including parent holding
companies, by their federal banking regulators.
As part of that framework, the FDICIA requires the relevant
federal banking regulator to take  prompt
corrective action  with respect to a depository
institution if that institution does not meet
certain capital adequacy standards.

Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal
banking regulator under the  prompt corrective
action  rules generally depend upon an
institution s classification within five capital
categories. The regulations apply only to banks and
not to bank holding companies such as JPMorgan
Chase; however, subject to limitations that may be
imposed pursuant to GLBA, the Federal Reserve Board
is authorized to take appropriate action at the
holding company level, based upon the
undercapitalized status of the holding company s
subsidiary banking institutions. In certain
instances relating to an undercapitalized banking
institution, the bank holding company would be
required to guarantee the performance of the
undercapitalized subsidiary s capital restoration
plan and might be liable for civil money damages
for failure to fulfill its commitments on that
guarantee.

Deposit Insurance:  Under current FDIC regulations,
each depository institution is assigned to a risk
category based on capital and supervisory measures.
A depository institution is assessed insurance
premiums by the FDIC based on its risk category and
the amount of deposits held. During the fourth
quarter 2008, the amount of FDIC insurance coverage
for insured deposits was increased under the
EESA, generally from $100,000 per depositor to
$250,000 per depositor, and pursuant to the
Firm s participation in the FDIC s TLG Program insured deposits held in
noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are now
fully insured. These increases in insurance coverage are
scheduled to end on December 31, 2009. The FDIC has
stated its intention, as part of its proposed
Deposit Insurance Fund
restoration plan, to increase deposit insurance
assessments. On January 1, 2009, the FDIC increased
its assessment rates, and has proposed further rate
increases and changes to the current risk-based
assessment framework. In addition, as a result of the Firm s
participation in the TLG Program, the Firm is required to pay
additional insurance premiums to the FDIC in an amount equal to an
annualized 10-basis points on balances in noninterest-bearing
transaction accounts that exceed the $250,000 deposit insurance limit,
determined on a quarterly basis.

Powers of the FDIC upon insolvency of an insured
depository institution:  An FDIC-insured depository
institution can be held liable for any loss
incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in
connection with another FDIC-insured institution
under common control with such institution being
 in default  or  in danger of default  (commonly
referred to as  cross-guarantee  liability). An FDIC
cross-guarantee claim against a depository
institution is generally superior in right of
payment to claims of the holding company and its
affiliates against such depository institution.

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or
receiver of an insured depository institution upon
its insolvency or in certain other events, the
FDIC has the power: (1) to transfer any of the
depository institution s assets and liabilities to
a new obligor without the approval of the
depository institution s creditors; (2) to enforce
the terms of the depository institution s
contracts pursuant to their terms; or (3) to
repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to
which the depository institution is a party, the
performance of which is determined by the FDIC to
be burdensome and the disaffirmation or
repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to
promote the orderly administration of the
depository institution. The above provisions would
be applicable to obligations and liabilities of
JPMorgan Chase s subsidiaries that are insured
depository institutions, such as JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A., including,
without limitation, obligations under senior or
subordinated debt issued by

3 

Table of Contents   

Part I 

those banks to investors (referred to below as
 public note holders ) in the public markets.

Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an
insured depository institution for administrative
expense and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit
liabilities (including the FDIC, as subrogee of the
depositors) have priority over the claims of other
unsecured creditors of the institution, including
public noteholders and depositors in non-U.S.
offices, in the event of the liquidation or other
resolution of the institution. As a result, whether
or not the FDIC would ever seek to repudiate any
obligations held by public noteholders or
depositors in non-U.S. offices of any subsidiary of
the Firm that is an insured depository institution,
such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., or Chase Bank
USA, N.A., such persons would be treated
differently from, and could receive, if anything,
substantially less than the depositors in U.S.
offices of the depository.

The Bank Secrecy Act:  The Bank Secrecy Act ( BSA )
requires all financial institutions, including
banks and securities broker-dealers, to, among
other things, establish a risk-based system of
internal controls reasonably designed to prevent
money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
The BSA includes a variety of recordkeeping and
reporting requirements (such as cash and suspicious
activity reporting), as well as due
diligence/know-your-customer documentation
requirements. The Firm has established a global
anti-money laundering program in order to comply
with BSA requirements.

Other supervision and regulation:  Under current
Federal Reserve Board policy, JPMorgan Chase is
expected to act as a source of financial strength
to its bank subsidiaries and to commit resources to
support these subsidiaries in circumstances where
it might not do so absent such policy. However,
because GLBA provides for functional regulation of
financial holding company activities by various
regulators, GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve
Board from requiring payment by a holding company
or subsidiary to a depository institution if the
functional regulator of the payor objects to such
payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve Board
could instead require the divestiture of the
depository institution and impose operating
restrictions pending the divestiture.

The bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase are subject
to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on
extensions of credit to, and certain other
transactions with, the Firm and certain other
affiliates, and on investments in stock or
securities of JPMorgan Chase and those affiliates.
These restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase and other
affiliates from borrowing from a bank subsidiary
unless the loans are secured in specified amounts.
See Note 29 on page 199.

The Firm s banks and certain of its nonbank
subsidiaries are subject to direct supervision and
regulation by various other federal and state
authorities (some of which are considered
 functional regulators  under GLBA). JPMorgan
Chase s national bank subsidiaries, such as
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA,
N.A., are subject to supervision and regulation by
the OCC and, in certain matters, by the Federal
Reserve Board and the FDIC. Supervision and
regulation by the responsible regulatory agency
generally includes comprehensive annual reviews of
all major aspects of the relevant

bank s business and condition, and imposition of
periodic reporting requirements and limitations on
investments, among other powers.

The Firm conducts securities underwriting, dealing
and brokerage activities in the U.S. through
JPMorgan Securities and other broker-dealer
subsidiaries, all of which are subject to
regulations of the SEC, the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and the New York Stock
Exchange, among others. The Firm conducts similar
securities activities outside the U.S. subject to
local regulatory requirements. The operations of
JPMorgan Chase mutual funds also are subject to
regulation by the SEC.

The Firm has subsidiaries that are members of
futures exchanges in the U.S. and abroad and are
registered accordingly. In the U.S., three
subsidiaries are registered as futures commission
merchants, with other subsidiaries registered with
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the
 CFTC ) as commodity pool operators and commodity
trading advisors. These CFTC-registered
subsidiaries are also members of the National
Futures Association. The Firm s U.S. energy
business is subject to regulation by the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission. It is also subject to
other extensive and evolving energy, commodities,
environmental and other governmental regulation
both in the U.S. and other jurisdictions globally.

The types of activities in which the non-U.S.
branches of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and the
international subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase may
engage are subject to various restrictions imposed
by the Federal Reserve Board. Those non-U.S.
branches and international subsidiaries also are
subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of
the countries in which they operate.

The activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and
Chase Bank USA, N.A. as consumer lenders also are
subject to regulation under various U.S. federal
laws, including the Truth-in-Lending, Equal Credit
Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt
Collection Practice and Electronic Funds Transfer
acts, as well as various state laws. These
statutes impose requirements on consumer loan
origination and collection practices.

Under the requirements imposed by GLBA, JPMorgan
Chase and its subsidiaries are required
periodically to disclose to their retail customers
the Firm s policies and practices with respect to
the sharing of nonpublic customer information with
JPMorgan Chase affiliates and others, and the
confidentiality and security of that information.
Under GLBA, retail customers also must be given
the opportunity to  opt out  of
information-sharing arrangements with
nonaffiliates, subject to certain exceptions set
forth in GLBA.

ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS

The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could materially
affect our financial condition and operations. Other factors that could affect our financial
condition and operations are discussed in the  Forward-looking statements  section on page 115.
However, factors besides those discussed below, in MD A or
elsewhere in this or other reports that we filed or furnished with the SEC, also could adversely
affect us. You should not consider any descriptions of such factors to be a complete set of all
potential risks that could affect us. 

4 

Table of Contents   

Our
results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by U.S. and
international financial market and economic conditions.  
Our businesses have been, and in the future will continue to be, materially affected by economic
and market conditions, including factors such as the liquidity of the global financial markets; the
level and volatility of debt and equity prices, interest rates and currency and commodities prices;
investor sentiment; corporate or other scandals that reduce confidence in the financial markets;
inflation; the availability and cost of capital and credit; the occurrence of natural disasters,
acts of war or terrorism; and the degree to which U.S. or international economies are expanding or
experiencing recessionary pressures. These factors can affect, among other things, the activity
level of clients with respect to the size, number and timing of transactions involving our
investment and commercial banking businesses, including our underwriting and advisory businesses;
the realization of cash returns from our private equity and principal investments businesses; the
volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, the revenue we receive
from commissions and spreads; the number or size of underwritings we manage on behalf of clients;
and the willingness of financial sponsors or other investors to participate in loan syndications or
underwritings managed by us.

We generally maintain large trading portfolios in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity
markets and we may have from time to time significant investment positions, including positions in
securities in markets that lack pricing transparency or liquidity. The revenue derived from
mark-to-market values of our businesses are affected by many factors, including our credit
standing; our success in proprietary positioning; volatility in interest rates and equity, debt and
commodities markets; credit spreads and availability of liquidity in the capital markets; and other
economic and business factors. We anticipate that revenue relating to our trading and principal
investment businesses will continue to experience volatility and there can be no assurance that
such volatility relating to the above factors or other conditions that may affect pricing or our
ability to realize returns from such investments could not materially adversely affect our
earnings.

The fees we earn for managing third-party assets are also dependent upon general economic
conditions. For example, a higher level of U.S. or non-U.S. interest rates or a downturn in trading
markets could affect the valuations of the third-party assets we manage or hold in custody, which,
in turn, could affect our revenue. Moreover, even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market
or sub-par performance by our investment management businesses could result in outflows of assets
under management and supervision and, therefore, reduce the fees that we receive.

Our consumer businesses are particularly affected by domestic economic conditions. Such conditions
include U.S. interest rates; the rate of unemployment; housing prices; the level of consumer
confidence; changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others.
The deterioration of these conditions can diminish demand for the consumer businesses  products and
services, or increase the cost to provide such products and services. In addition, adverse economic
conditions, such as declines in home prices, could lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan
delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings.

During 2008, U.S. and global financial markets were extremely volatile and were materially and
adversely affected by a significant lack of liquidity, loss of confidence in the financial

sector,
disruptions in the credit markets, reduced business activity, rising unemployment, declining home
prices, and erosion of consumer confidence. These factors contributed to adversely affecting our
business, financial condition and results of operations in 2008 and there is no assurance when such
conditions will ameliorate.

If we do not effectively manage our liquidity, our business could be negatively affected.  
Our liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses, grow and be profitable. Some
potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include illiquid or volatile
markets, diminished access to capital markets, unforeseen cash or capital requirements (including,
among others, commitments that may be triggered to special purpose entities ( SPEs ) or other
entities), difficulty or inability to sell assets, unforeseen
outflows of cash or collateral, and lack of market or customer
confidence in us or our prospects.
These conditions may be caused by events over which we have little or no control. The liquidity
crisis experienced in 2008 increased our cost of funding and limited our access to some of our
traditional sources of liquidity such as securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, loans,
credit card receivables and other assets. If current market conditions continue, our liquidity
could be adversely affected.

The credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase   Co., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. are
important in order to maintain our liquidity. A reduction in their credit ratings could have an
adverse effect on our access to
liquidity sources, increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding
requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us,
thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing our profitability. Reduction in the ratings
of certain SPEs or other entities to which we have a funding or other commitment could also
negatively affect our liquidity where such ratings changes lead, directly or indirectly, to us
being required to purchase assets or otherwise provide funding. Critical factors in maintaining
high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong
credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources, and disciplined liquidity
monitoring procedures.

Our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the
amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities (or other benchmark securities)
of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). Increases in our credit spreads
can significantly increase the cost of this funding. Changes in credit spreads are continuous and
market-driven, and influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. As such, our credit
spreads may be unpredictable and highly volatile.

As a holding company, we rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries for our cash flow and consequent
ability to pay dividends and satisfy our obligations. These payments by subsidiaries may take the
form of dividends, loans or other payments. Several of our principal subsidiaries are subject to
capital adequacy requirements or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to
provide such payments. Limitations in the payments we receive from our subsidiaries could
negatively affect our liquidity position.

The soundness of our customers, clients and counterparties, including other financial institutions,
could adversely affect us . 
A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments,
derivatives, trading account assets and assets held-for-sale. As one of the nation s largest
lenders, we have exposures to many different

5 

Table of Contents   

Part I 

products
and counterparties, and the credit quality of
our exposures can have a significant impact on our earnings. We estimate and establish reserves for
credit risks and potential credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded
lending commitments). This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition,
requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how these economic
conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. As is the case with any
such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or
that we will fail to accurately estimate the impact of factors that we identify. Any such failure
could result in increases in delinquencies and default rates.

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or
other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial
services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and
hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk
in the event of default by the counterparty or client, which can be exacerbated during periods of
market illiquidity, such as experienced in 2008. During such periods, our credit risk also may be
further increased when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices
that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. In
addition, disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral significantly increases in
times of market stress and illiquidity. There is no assurance that any such losses would not
materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings.

As an example of the risks associated with our relationships with other financial institutions is
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ( LBHI ). On September 15, 2008, LBHI filed a
voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (the
 Bankruptcy Code ) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York, and
thereafter several of its subsidiaries also filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11
of the Bankruptcy Code in the court (LBHI and such subsidiaries collectively,  Lehman ). On
September 19, 2008, a liquidation case under the Securities Investor Protection Act was commenced
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for Lehman Brothers Inc.
( LBI ), LBHI s U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, and the court now presides over the LBI SIPA
liquidation case. We were LBI s clearing bank and are the largest secured creditor in the Lehman
and LBI cases, according to Lehman s schedules. We anticipate that claims may be asserted against us
and/or our security interests, including by the LBHI Creditors Committee, the SIPA Trustee
appointed in the LBI liquidation case, the principal acquiror of LBI s assets, and others in
connection with Lehman and LBI cases. We intend to defend ourself against any such claims.

As a result of the current economic environment there is a greater likelihood that more of our
customers or counterparties could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to us
which, in turn, could result in a higher level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, or
requirements that we purchase assets or provide other funding, any of which could adversely affect
our financial condition. Moreover, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our
counterparties could lead to concerns about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same
industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure, and increasing the losses, including
mark-to-market losses, we could incur in our trading, clearing, and proprietary businesses.

Concentration of credit and market risk could increase the potential for significant losses.  
We have exposure to increased levels of risk when a number of customers are engaged in similar
business activities or activities in the same geographic region, or when they have similar economic
features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by
changes in economic conditions. We regularly monitor various segments of our portfolio exposures to
assess potential concentration risks. Our efforts to diversify or hedge our credit portfolio
against concentration risks may not be successful and any concentration of credit risk could
increase the potential for significant losses in our credit portfolio. In addition, disruptions in
the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell,
syndicate or realize upon securities, loans or other instruments or positions held by us,
thereby leading to increased concentrations

of such positions. These concentrations could expose us to
losses if the mark-to-market value of the securities, loans or other instruments or positions
decline causing us to take write downs. Moreover, the inability to reduce our positions not only
increases the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increases the level
of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements and
funding costs, all of which could adversely affect our
businesses  operations and profitability.

Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. 
 
Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes
and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to
which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk,
operational risk, legal and fiduciary risk, reputational risk and private equity risk, among
others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk
management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not
appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we
could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.

Our risk management strategies may not be effective because in a difficult or less liquid market
environment other market participants may be attempting to use the same or similar strategies to
deal with the difficult market conditions. In such circumstances, it may be difficult for us to
reduce our risk positions due to the activity of such other market participants.

Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected market, credit and operational risks that
could cause us to suffer unexpected losses. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit
events, or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become
correlated may create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into account in the
development, structuring or pricing of a derivative instrument. In addition, certain of our
derivative transactions require the physical settlement by delivery of securities, commodities or
obligations that we do now own; if we are not able to obtain such securities, commodities or
obligations within the required timeframe for delivery, this could cause us to forfeit payments
otherwise due to us and could result in settlement delays, which could damage our reputation and
ability to transact future business. In addition, many derivative transactions are not cleared and
settled through a central clearinghouse or exchange, and they may not always be confirmed or
settled by counterparties on a timely basis. In these situations, we are subject to heightened
credit and operational risk, and in the event of a default, we may find the contract more difficult
to enforce. Further, as new and more complex derivative products are created, disputes regarding
the terms or the settlement procedures of the contracts could arise, which could force us to incur
unexpected costs, including transaction and legal costs, and impair our ability to manage
effectively our risk exposure from these products.

Many of our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques have a basis in historic market
behavior, and all

6 

Table of Contents   

such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management s
subjective judgment. For example, many models used by us are based on assumptions regarding
correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In times of market
stress, such as occurred during 2008, or in the event of other unforeseen circumstances, previously
uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely, previously correlated indicators may
make unrelated movements. These sudden market movements or unanticipated or unidentified market or
economic movements have in some circumstances limited the effectiveness of our risk management
strategies, causing us to incur losses. In addition, as our businesses grow and the markets in
which they operate continue to evolve, our risk management framework may not always keep sufficient
pace with those changes. For example, there is the risk that the credit and market risks associated
with new products or new business strategies may not be appropriately identified, monitored or
managed. There can be no assurance that our risk management framework, including our underlying
assumptions or strategies, will at all times be accurate and effective.

Our operations are subject to risk of loss from unfavorable economic, monetary, political, legal
and other developments in the United States and around the world. 
 
Our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies that are adopted by
various regulatory authorities of the United States, non-U.S. governments and international
agencies.

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in
the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing
and the return earned on those loans and investments. The market impact from such policies can also
materially decrease the value of financial assets that we hold, such as debt securities and
mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ). Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially
increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us.
Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these
changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.

Our businesses and revenue are also subject to the risks inherent in maintaining international
operations and in investing and trading in securities of companies worldwide. These risks include,
among others, risk of loss from the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism and various
unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, including social or political
instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation,
nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and
changes in laws and regulations. Further, various countries in which we operate or invest, or in
which we may do so in the future, have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions,
including extreme currency fluctuations, high inflation, or low or negative growth, among other
negative conditions. Crime, corruption, war or military actions, acts of terrorism and a
lack of an established legal and regulatory framework are additional challenges in some of these
countries, particularly in the emerging markets. Revenue from international operations and trading
in non-U.S. securities may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result

of the above
considerations. The impact of these fluctuations could be accentuated as some trading markets are
smaller, less liquid and more volatile than larger markets. Also, any of the above-mentioned events
or circumstances in one country can and has in the past, affected our operations and investments
in another country or countries. Any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an
adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

The emergence of a widespread health emergency or pandemic also could create economic or financial
disruption that could negatively affect our revenue and operations or impair our ability to manage
our businesses in certain parts of the world.

Our power generation and commodities activities are subject to extensive regulation, potential
catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose it to significant cost
and liability. 
 
We engage in power generation, and in connection with the commodities activities of our Investment
Bank, we engage in the storage, transportation, marketing or trading of several commodities,
including metals, agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power,
emission credits, coal, freight, and related products and indices. As a result of these activities,
we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, and other governmental
laws and regulations. We expect laws and regulations affecting our power generation and commodities
activities to expand in scope and complexity. We may incur substantial costs in complying with
current or future laws and regulations and the failure to comply with these laws and regulations
may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. In addition, liability may be
incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for remediation
of contaminations. Our power generation and commodities activities also further exposes us to the
risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions,
release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that
could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, damage to our reputation and
suspension of operations. In addition, our power generation activities are subject to disruptions,
many of which are outside of our control, from the breakdown or failure of power generation
equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes, and the contractual failure of
performance by third-party suppliers or service providers, including the failure to obtain and
deliver raw materials necessary for the operation of power generation facilities. We attempt to
mitigate our risks, but our actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In
addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any,
from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular
incidents. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected
by such events.

We rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially
adversely affect our operations. 
 
Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of
increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data

7 

Table of Contents   

Part I 

processing
systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We
are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our
employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error
or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or
systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us,
including relating to breakdowns or failures of such parties  own systems or employees. Any of
these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, or result in
potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could
materially adversely affect us.

If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession were
to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational
damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such
information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information,
either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is
intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.

We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or
partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or
telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or
physical assets, or events arising from local or larger scale politics, including terrorist acts.
Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us.

In a firm as large and complex as us, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial
reporting may occur from time to time, and there is no assurance that significant deficiencies or
material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. In addition, there is the
risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems
prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely
affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the
defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not
covered by insurance.

We operate within a highly regulated industry and our business and results are
significantly affected by the laws and regulations to which we are subject. 
 
We operate within a highly regulated industry. We are subject to regulation under state and federal
laws in the U.S., as well as the applicable laws of each of the various other jurisdictions outside
the U.S. in which we do business. These laws and regulations affect the type and manner in which we
do business and may limit our ability to expand our product offerings, pursue acquisitions, or
restrict the scope of operations and services provided.

Recent market and economic conditions have led to new legislation and numerous proposals for
changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional
legislation and regulation in the United States. In response to such market and economic
conditions, the United States government, particularly the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the FDIC, and foreign governments,

have taken a
variety of extraordinary measures designed to restore confidence in the financial markets, increase
liquidity and to strengthen financial institutions. For example, on October 3, 2008 and on February
17, 2009, the EESA and the ARRA, respectively, were signed into law. These laws are
intended to provide fiscal stimulus and stability to the U.S. economy, by among other things,
permitting the U.S. Treasury to make direct investments in financial institutions pursuant to the
Capital Purchase Program. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that these
laws and their implementing regulations, or any other governmental program, will have on the
financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or
worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could continue to materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the
trading price of our common stock.

Participation in current or future government programs adopted in response to recent market events
and economic conditions may subject us to restrictions and additional oversight on the manner in
which we operate our business. We are currently participating in the Capital Purchase Program, and
under the terms of the program, as amended by the ARRA, the consent of the U.S. Treasury is
required for us to, among other things, increase our common stock
dividend from the amount of the last quarterly stock dividend
declared by us prior to October 14, 2008 or, except in limited
circumstances, repurchase our common stock or other preferred stock unless the Series K Preferred
Stock that was issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program has been redeemed or
the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series K Preferred Stock to a third party. The ARRA
also imposes restrictions on our ability to pay incentive compensation to certain of our employees.
There can be no assurance that any additional restrictions imposed by reason of our participation
in the Capital Purchase Program or other government programs will not
have an adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

New
legislation and regulatory changes could cause business disruptions, result in significant loss of
revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging
in, impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain of our business
practices, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely
affect our business. For example, on December 18, 2008, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System adopted
enhanced regulations for credit cards through amendments to Regulation Z, which implements the
Truth-in-Lending Act, and also new regulations governing unfair or deceptive acts or practices
under the Federal Trade Commission Act. These regulatory changes will require us to invest
significant management attention and resources to make the necessary disclosure and system changes,
and could adversely affect our business.

Additional legislation and regulations may by enacted or promulgated in the future, and we are
unable to predict the form such legislation or regulation may take, or the degree to which we would
need to modify our businesses or operations to comply with such legislation or regulation. For
example, proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress that would amend to the Bankruptcy
Code to permit modifications of certain mortgages that are secured by a Chapter 13 debtor s
principal residence. Proposed legislation has also been introduced in Congress that would, among
other things, prescribe when interest can be charged on revolving credit card accounts, prescribe
when and how interest rates can be increased, limit events of default that can result in interest
rate increases on existing balances, restrict the imposition of certain fees, require a specified
cutoff hour when payments must be credited to accounts, prescribe how payments must be allocated to
outstanding balances on accounts and restrict the issuance of credit cards for persons under 21
years of age except in certain circumstances. There can be no assurance that if any such
legislation were enacted that it would not have an adverse effect on our business, results of
operations or financial condition.

If we do
not comply with the legislation and regulations that apply to our
operations, we may be subject to fines, penalties or
material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred. In recent
years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs
and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. If this regulatory trend
continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. In
addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived
failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to
attract and retain customers or to maintain access to capital markets, which could adversely affect
our financial condition.

8 

Table of Contents   

We face significant legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings and from
private actions brought against us. 
 
We are named as a defendant or are otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class
actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or
proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. Actions brought against us may result in judgments,
settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could materially adversely
affect our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational
harm. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely we will continue to
experience a high level of litigation and regulatory scrutiny and investigations related to our
businesses and operations.

There is increasing competition in the financial services industry which may adversely affect our
results of operations. 
 
We operate in a highly competitive environment and we expect competitive conditions to continue to
intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger,
better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider
array of financial products and services at more competitive prices. Consolidations in the
financial services industry increased substantially during 2008, as several major U.S.
financial institutions merged, were forced to sell assets and, in some cases failed.

We also face an increasing array of competitors. Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms,
investment banking companies, merchant banks, hedge funds, insurance companies, mutual fund
companies, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities
processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other
Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies.
Technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository
institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for
financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and Internet-based financial
solutions, including electronic securities trading. Our businesses generally compete on the basis
of the quality and variety of our products and services, transaction execution, innovation,
reputation and price. Ongoing or increased competition in any one or all of these areas may put
downward pressure on prices for our products and services or may cause us to lose market share.
Increased competition also may require us to make additional capital investment in our businesses
in order to remain competitive. These investments may increase expense or may require us to extend
more of our capital on behalf of clients in order to execute larger, more competitive transactions.
There can be no assurance that the significant and increasing competition in the financial services
industry will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations.

Our acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses may not result in all of the benefits
anticipated. 
 
We have in the past and may in the future seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses.
There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results,
including results relating to: the total cost of integration; the time required to complete the
integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; the overall performance of the combined
entity; or an improved price for our common stock. Integration of an acquired business can be
complex and costly, sometimes including combining relevant accounting and data processing systems
and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with employees, clients,
suppliers and other business partners. Integration efforts could divert management attention and
resources, which could adversely affect our operations or results.

Given the continued market volatility and uncertainty, we may continue to experience increased
credit costs or need to take additional markdowns and allowances for loan losses on the assets and
loans acquired in the merger (the  Bear Stearns merger )
by and among JPMorgan Chase and The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. ( Bear Stearns ) and in connection with the acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank s ( Washington Mutual ) banking operations (the  Washington Mutual transaction ) that could
negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. There is no
assurance that as our integration efforts continue in connection with these transactions, other
unanticipated costs or losses will not be incurred.

Acquisitions may also result in business disruptions that cause us to lose customers or cause
customers to remove their accounts from us and move their business to competing financial
institutions. It is possible that the integration process related to acquisitions could result in
the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and
policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers,
depositors and employees. The loss of key employees in connection with an acquisition could
adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business.

Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. 
 
Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers,
investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our
business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among
others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum
standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of
customers and counterparties. Further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may
also result in harm to our prospects.

We could suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential
conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly
complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and
interests with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure
to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with
us, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. Therefore, there can be no assurance that
conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us.

9 

Table of Contents   

Part I 

Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business
and failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. 
 
Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services
industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. The executive compensation restrictions
currently, or that may in the future may be, imposed on us as a result of our participation in the
Capital Purchase Program or other government programs, may adversely affect our ability to attract
and retain qualified senior management and employees. If we are unable to continue to retain and
attract qualified employees, our performance, including our competitive position, could be
materially adversely affected.

Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if wrong, could
cause unexpected losses in the future. 
 
Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America,
we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements,
including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigations and the fair value
of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our
financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.

For example, we make judgments in connection with our consolidation analysis of SPEs. If it is
later determined that non-consolidated SPEs should be consolidated, this could negatively affect
our Consolidated Balance Sheets, related funding requirements, capital ratios and, if the SPEs 
assets include unrealized losses, could require us to recognize those losses.

Certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, available-for-sale securities, certain loans, MSRs, private equity investments, structured notes and certain
repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in
order to prepare our financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may
make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately
rely to some degree on management judgment. Some of these and other assets and liabilities may have
no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on
significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in
prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet
items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or
adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings.

ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2: PROPERTIES

JPMorgan
Chase s headquarters is located
in New York City at 270 Park Avenue, which is a
50-story office building owned by JPMorgan Chase.
This location contains approximately 1.3 million
square feet of space. The building is currently
undergoing a major renovation in five stages. The
design seeks to attain the highest sustainability
rating for renovations of existing buildings under
the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
( LEED ) Green Building Rating System. The
renovation of the top 15 floors is complete. By
year-end 2009, the next 19 floors are expected to
be complete and the mechanical infrastructure
refresh will be substantially complete with the
other stages to follow in the multi-year program.

In connection with the Bear Stearns merger,
JPMorgan Chase acquired 383 Madison Avenue in New
York City, a 45-story, 1.1 million square-foot
office building on land which is subject to a
ground lease for an additional 88 years. This
building serves as the U.S. headquarters of
JPMorgan Chase s Investment Bank.

In total, JPMorgan Chase owned or leased
approximately 13.0 million square feet of
commercial office space and retail space in New
York City at December 31, 2008. JPMorgan Chase and its
subsidiaries also own or lease significant
administrative and operational facilities in
Houston and Dallas, Texas (4.8 million square
feet); Chicago, Illinois (4.0 million square
feet); Columbus, Ohio (2.7 million square
feet); Seattle, Washington (1.6 million square
feet); Phoenix, Arizona (1.4 million square
feet); Jersey City, New Jersey (1.2 million square
feet); San Francisco, California (1.1 million square
feet); Wilmington, Delaware (1.0 million square
feet); Tampa, Florida (1.0 million square feet); San
Antonio, Texas (1.0 million square feet); and 5,474
retail branches in 23 states. At December 31, 2008, the Firm occupied
approximately 75.9 million total square feet of
space in the United States.

10 

Table of Contents   

At
December 31, 2008, the Firm managed and occupied approximately 3.8
million total square feet of space in the United
Kingdom, Europe, Middle East and Africa. In the
United Kingdom, JPMorgan Chase leased
approximately 2.6 million square feet of office
space and owned a 360,000 square-foot operations
center at December 31, 2008.

In 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired a 999-year
leasehold interest in land at Canary Wharf,
London. It is intended to be the future site for
construction of a new European headquarters
building, which can contain up
to approximately 1.9 million square feet of space
and have up to five trading floors of
approximately 80,000 square feet each. JPMorgan
Chase, by agreement with the developer, has the
ability to defer commencement of the main
construction through at least October 2010. The
building design will strive to achieve the highest
possible environmental efficiency rating.

In addition, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries
occupy offices and other administrative and
operational facilities in the Asia Pacific region,
Latin America and Canada under various types of
ownership and leasehold agreements, aggregating
approximately 3.2 million total square feet of
space at December 31, 2008. The properties occupied by JPMorgan Chase
are used across all of the Firm s business segments
and for corporate purposes.

JPMorgan Chase continues to evaluate its current
and projected space requirements and may determine
from time to time that certain of its premises and
facilities are no longer necessary for its
operations. There is no assurance that the Firm
will be able to dispose of any such excess premises
or that it will not incur charges in connection
with such dispositions. Such disposition costs may
be material to the Firm s results of operations in
a given period. For a discussion of occupancy
expense, see the Consolidated Results of Operations
discussion on pages 33 37.

ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Bear Stearns Shareholder Litigation and Related
Matters.  Various shareholders of Bear Stearns have
commenced purported class actions against Bear
Stearns and certain of its former officers and/or
directors on behalf of all persons who purchased or
otherwise acquired common stock of Bear Stearns
between December 14, 2006 and March 14, 2008 (the
 Class Period ). The actions, originally commenced
in several United States District Courts, allege
that the defendants issued materially false and
misleading statements regarding Bear Stearns 
business and financial results and that, as a
result of those false statements, Bear Stearns 
common stock traded at artificially inflated prices
during the Class Period. In connection with these
allegations, the complaints assert claims for
violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Separately,
several individual shareholders of Bear Stearns
have commenced or threatened to commence arbitration proceedings and lawsuits
asserting claims similar to those in the putative
class actions.

In addition, Bear Stearns and certain of its former
officers and/or directors have also been named as
defendants in a number of putative class actions
commenced in the United States District Court for
the Southern District of New York purporting to
represent the interests of participants in the Bear
Stearns Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP )
during the time period of December 2006 through the

date of
the complaints. These
actions allege defendants breached their fiduciary
duties
to plaintiffs and to the other participants and
beneficiaries of the ESOP by (a) failing to
prudently manage the ESOP s investment in Bear
Stearns securities; (b) failing to communicate fully
and accurately about the risks of the ESOP s
investment in Bear Stearns stock; (c) failing to
avoid or address alleged conflicts of interest; and
(d) failing to monitor those who managed and
administered the ESOP. In connection with these
allegations, each plaintiff asserts claims for
violations under various sections of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) and seeks
reimbursement to the ESOP for all losses, an
unspecified amount of monetary damages and
imposition of a consecutive trust.

Furthermore, former members of Bear Stearns  Board
of Directors and certain of Bear Stearns  former
executive officers have been named as defendants in
two purported shareholder derivative suits, each of
which was commenced in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York. Bear
Stearns was named as a nominal defendant in both
actions. By court order dated February 14, 2008,
the actions were consolidated. A consolidated
amended complaint was filed on March 3, 2008,
asserting claims for breach of fiduciary duty,
violations of federal securities laws, waste of
corporate assets and gross mismanagement, unjust
enrichment, abuse of control and indemnification
and contribution in connection with the losses
sustained by Bear Stearns as a result of its
purchases of sub-prime loans and certain
repurchases of its own common stock. Certain
individual defendants are also alleged to have sold
their holdings of Bear Stearns common stock
while in possession of material nonpublic
information. The amended complaint seeks
compensatory damages in an unspecified amount and
an order directing Bear Stearns to improve its
corporate governance procedures.

On August 18, 2008, the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation ( MDL Panel ) issued a
Transfer Order joining for pre-trial purposes
before the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York all then-pending
securities and ERISA actions, as well as any
later-filed actions, making allegations concerning
 whether Bear Stearns and certain of its current
and former officers and directors knowingly made
material misstatements or omissions concerning the
company s financial health that misled investors
and caused investor losses when the company s stock
price fell in March 2008.  The consolidated
shareholders  derivative lawsuit was also the
subject of the Transfer order. All such actions
were assigned to District Judge Robert Sweet. By
order dated January 5, 2009, District Judge Sweet
ordered the various putative securities class
actions to be consolidated, and ordered that the
putative ERISA class actions be separately
consolidated. The Court also appointed lead
plaintiffs and lead plaintiffs  counsel in both
consolidated actions and appointed lead plaintiffs 
counsel in the consolidated shareholder derivative
action.

Bear Stearns Merger Litigation.  Seven putative
class actions (five that were commenced in New York
and two that were commenced in Delaware) were
consolidated in
New York State Court in Manhattan under the caption
 In re Bear Stearns Litigation . Bear Stearns, as
well as its former directors and certain of its former
executive officers, were named as defendants.
JPMorgan Chase was also named as a defendant. The
actions, which were filed in the Supreme Court of
the New York State

11 

Table of Contents   

Part I 

Court, allege, among other things, that the
individual defendants breached their fiduciary
duties and obligations to Bear Stearns 
shareholders by agreeing to the proposed merger.
The Firm was alleged to have aided and abetted the
alleged breaches of fiduciary duty; breached its
fiduciary duty as controlling
shareholder/controlling entity; tortuously
interfered with the Bear Stearns shareholders 
voting rights; and was also alleged to have been
unjustly enriched. Plaintiffs initially sought to
enjoin the proposed merger and enjoin the Firm from
voting certain shares acquired by the Firm in
connection with the proposed merger. The plaintiffs
subsequently informed the Court that they were
withdrawing that motion but amended the
consolidated complaint to pursue claims, which
included a claim for an unspecified amount of
compensatory damages. In December 2008, the court ruled in favor of
us and other defendants on our and their motion for summary judgment.
As a result, the case has been dismissed pending the plaintiff s
appeal from the summary judgment ruling.

Municipal Derivatives Investigation and Antitrust
Litigation.  The New York field office of the
Department of Justice s Antitrust Division and the
Philadelphia Office of the SEC have been conducting
parallel investigations of JPMorgan Chase and Bear
Stearns for possible antitrust and securities
violations in connection with the bidding or sale
of guaranteed investment contracts and derivatives
to municipal issuers. The principal focus of the
investigations to date has been the period 2001 to
2005. A group of state attorney generals and the OCC
also opened investigations into the same underlying
conduct. JPMorgan Chase has been cooperating with
those investigations and has produced documents and
other information.

On March 18, 2008, the Philadelphia Office of the
SEC provided to
JPMorgan Securities a Wells Notice that it
intended to bring civil charges in connection with
its investigations. JPMorgan Securities has
responded to that Wells Notice. It also responded
to a separate Wells Notice that that Office
provided to Bear, Stearns   Co. Inc. (now known as J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc.) on February
1, 2008.

In addition, beginning in March 2008, purported
class action lawsuits and individual actions have
been filed against JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns,
as well as numerous other providers and brokers
involved in the market for a variety of financial
instruments related to municipal bonds and referred
to collectively by plaintiffs as  municipal
derivatives  (the  Municipal Derivatives
Actions ), for alleged antitrust violations in
connection
with the bidding or sale of  municipal
derivatives.  The MDL Panel ordered the antitrust
actions relating to  municipal derivatives 
coordinated for pretrial proceedings in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of
New York (the  MDL court ). On August 22, 2008,
certain class plaintiffs filed a consolidated class
action complaint alleging violations of Section 1
of the Sherman Act based on the alleged conspiracy
described above. On October 21, 2008, defendants
filed a joint motion to dismiss the consolidated
class action complaint. The MDL court declined to
stay discovery pending disposition of the motions
to dismiss.

There are a number of other actions that are
proceeding separately from the consolidated class
action complaint. These include purported class
actions under the Sherman Act and California state
law as well as individual actions that state
claims solely under California state law. In
addition, there are several actions that have been

noticed as
a tag-along action to the MDL Panel
and are awaiting transfer to the MDL court.

Bear Stearns Hedge Fund Matters.  Bear Stearns,
certain of its current or former subsidiaries,
including Bear Stearns Asset Management, Inc.
( BSAM ) and Bear Stearns   Co. Inc., and certain current or
former employees have been named as defendants
( Bear Stearns defendants ) in a number of actions
relating to the Bear Stearns High Grade Structured
Credit Strategies Master Fund, Ltd. (the  High
Grade Fund ) and the Bear Stearns High Grade
Structured Credit Strategies Enhanced Leverage
Master Fund, Ltd. (the  Enhanced Leverage Fund )
(collectively, the  Funds ). BSAM served as
investment manager for both of the Funds, which
were organized such that there were U.S. and Cayman
Islands  feeder funds  that invested substantially
all their assets, directly or indirectly, in the
Funds. The Funds are in liquidation.

The Bear Stearns defendants have been sued in five
civil actions in United States District Court for
the Southern District of New York. The Joint
Voluntary Liquidators of the Cayman Islands feeder funds has filed a complaint asserting claims for,
among other things, fraud, breach of fiduciary
duty, breach of contract, recklessness, gross
negligence, negligence, and unjust enrichment. Also
joining the Liquidators as plaintiffs are two
purported investors in the U.S. feeder funds. In
addition to individual claims, these two plaintiffs
purport to assert derivative actions with the U.S.
feeder funds as nominal defendants and seek damages
of not less than $1.5 billion, unspecified punitive
damages, costs, and fees. Two purported class
action lawsuits have been filed on behalf of
purchasers of partnership interests in the High
Grade and Enhanced Leverage U.S. feeder funds,
respectively. In each such action, the plaintiff
has asserted claims for, among other things, breach
of fiduciary duty. The class action complaints also
purport to assert derivative actions with the High
Grade and
Enhanced Leverage U.S. feeder funds as nominal
defendants. The relief being sought by these
plaintiffs is unspecified damages, costs and fees.
In addition, Bank of America and Banc of America
Securities LLC (together  BofA ) have filed a lawsuit in
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging breach of contract and fraud in connection
with a May 2007 $4 billion dollar securitization,
known as a  CDO-squared,  for which BSAM served as
collateral manager. This securitization was
composed of certain collateralized debt obligation
( CDO ) holdings that were purchased by BofA from
the High Grade Fund and the Enhanced Leverage Fund.
The Bear Stearns defendants have filed motions to
dismiss each of the four civil actions described
above. Finally, in connection with its investment
and other transactions related to the Enhanced
Leverage Fund, Barclays Bank brought an action
asserting claims for, among other things, fraud,
fraudulent concealment, breach of fiduciary duty,
and negligent misrepresentation. On February 10,
2009, Barclays filed a notice of dismissal of that
action against all defendants.

In addition, one or more Bear Stearns defendants
have been named as parties in multiple FINRA
arbitrations initiated by investors in the Funds.
The relief being sought by the claimants in these
matters is compensatory damages, unspecified
punitive damages, costs and expenses.

12 

Table of Contents   

BSAM and its affiliates have also been contacted
by, and have received requests for information and
documents from, various federal and state
regulatory and law enforcement authorities as part
of their investigations regarding the Funds,
including the SEC, the United States Attorney s Office for the Eastern
District of New York and the Securities Division of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the  Massachusetts Securities
Division ). On November 14, 2007, the Massachusetts Securities
Division filed an administrative complaint against
BSAM alleging that BSAM violated multiple
provisions of the Massachusetts Securities Act by
failing to adequately disclose and/or manage
conflicts of interest related to procedures for
related party transactions. BSAM submitted an Offer
of Settlement to resolve this matter that was
accepted by the Massachusetts Securities Division, and then
resolved through a Consent Order filed on November
13, 2008.

Enron Litigation.  JPMorgan Chase and certain of its
officers and directors are involved in a number of
lawsuits arising out of its banking relationships
with Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries ( Enron ).
Several actions and other proceedings against the
Firm have been resolved, including adversary
proceedings brought by Enron s bankruptcy estate.
In addition, the Firm resolved the lead class
action litigation brought on behalf of the
purchasers of Enron securities, captioned  Newby v.
Enron Corp ., for approximately $2.2 billion
(pretax), which the Firm funded on October 16, 2008.

The  Newby  settlement does not resolve Enron-related
actions filed separately by plaintiffs who opted
out of the class action or by certain plaintiffs
who are asserting claims not covered by that
action. Some of these other
actions have been dismissed or settled separately.
The remaining Enron-related actions include three
actions against the Firm by plaintiffs who were
bank lenders or claim to be successors-in-interest
to bank lenders who participated in Enron credit
facilities co-syndicated by the Firm; individual
actions by Enron investors, creditors and
counterparties; and a third-party action brought by
a defendant in an Enron-related case seeking
apportionment of responsibility and contribution
under Texas state law against JPMorgan Chase and
other defendants. Plaintiffs in the bank lender
cases have moved for partial summary judgment, and
JPMorgan Chase has moved for summary judgment
and/or partial judgment on the pleadings. The three
bank lender cases have been transferred to the
United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York.

In March 2006, two plaintiffs filed complaints in
New York Supreme Court against JPMorgan Chase
alleging breach of contract, breach of implied duty
of good faith and fair dealing and breach of
fiduciary duty based upon the Firm s role as
Indenture Trustee in connection with two indenture
agreements between JPMorgan Chase and Enron. The
Firm removed both actions to the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New
York. The federal court dismissed one of these
cases and remanded the other to New York State
court. JPMorgan Chase filed a motion to dismiss
plaintiffs  amended complaint in State court on May
24, 2007, which was denied. JPMorgan Chase
appealed, and on December 23, 2008, the Supreme
Court, Appellate Division for the First Department
reversed the trial court s order, dismissing
plaintiffs  complaint. Plaintiffs have moved for
leave to further appeal this ruling.

In a purported, consolidated class action lawsuit
by JPMorgan Chase stockholders alleging that the
Firm issued false and misleading press releases and
other public documents relating to Enron in
violation of Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, the
United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York dismissed the lawsuit in its
entirety without prejudice in March 2005.
Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in May 2005.
The Firm moved to dismiss the amended complaint,
which the Court granted with prejudice on March 28,
2007. Plaintiffs appealed the dismissal. On January
21, 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit affirmed the trial court s
dismissal of the action.

A putative class action on behalf of JPMorgan Chase
employees who participated in the Firm s 401(k)
plan alleges claims under ERISA for alleged breaches
of fiduciary duties and negligence by JPMorgan
Chase, its directors and named officers. In August
2005, the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York denied plaintiffs 
motion for class certification and ordered some of
plaintiffs  claims dismissed. In September 2005,
the Firm moved for summary judgment seeking
dismissal of this ERISA lawsuit in its entirety,
and in September 2006, the Court granted summary
judgment in part, and ordered plaintiffs to show
cause as to why the remaining claims should not be
dismissed. On December 27, 2006, the Court
dismissed the case with prejudice. Plaintiffs
appealed the dismissal. On December 24, 2008, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit reversed the trial court s dismissal and
remanded the case back to the District Court for
further proceedings.

IPO Allocation Litigation.  Beginning in May 2001,
JPMorgan Chase and certain of its securities
subsidiaries were named, along with numerous other
firms in the securities industry, as defendants in
a large number of putative class action lawsuits
filed in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York alleging
improprieties in the allocation of securities in
various public offerings, including some offerings
for which a JPMorgan Chase entity served as an
underwriter. They also claim violations of
securities laws arising from alleged material
misstatements and omissions in registration
statements and prospectuses for the initial public
offerings ( IPOs ) and alleged market manipulation
with respect to aftermarket transactions in the
offered securities. The securities lawsuits allege,
among other things, misrepresentation and market
manipulation of the aftermarket trading for these
offerings by tying allocations of shares in IPOs to
undisclosed excessive commissions paid to the
underwriter defendants, including JPMorgan
Securities, and to required aftermarket purchase
transactions by customers who received allocations
of shares in the respective IPOs, as well as
allegations of misleading analyst reports. Bear,
Stearns   Co., Inc. is named as a defendant in 95
of the pending IPO securities cases. Antitrust
lawsuits based on similar allegations have been
dismissed with prejudice.

The District Court denied a motion to dismiss in
all material respects relating to the underwriter
defendants and generally granted plaintiffs  motion
for class certification in six  focus cases.  The
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
reversed the District Court s order granting class
certification, denied plaintiffs  applications for
rehear-

13 

Table of Contents   

Part I 

ing and rehearing en banc, and remanded. On August
14, 2007, plaintiffs amended their complaints in the
six  focus cases  as well as their master
allegations for all such cases to reflect new
class-related allegations. On September 27, 2007,
plaintiffs filed a new motion for class
certification in the District Court, and on
November 14, 2007, JPMorgan Securities and the
other defendants moved to dismiss the amended
complaints. Following a mediation, a settlement in
principle has been reached, subject to negotiation
of definitive documentation and court approval. It
has now been publicly reported by others that the
aggregate total of the amounts agreed to be paid by
or on behalf of all issuer and underwriter
defendants, including Lehman Brothers, Inc., which
is now in bankruptcy proceedings, totaled $610
million. JPMorgan Securities  share of the
settlement will not
have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial condition of the Firm.

JPMorgan Securities is also among numerous
underwriting firms named as defendants in a number
of complaints filed commencing October 3, 2007, in
the United States District Court for the Western District
of Washington under Section 16(b) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 in connection
with the IPO of securities for 23 issuers. Bear
Stearns was named in complaints in connection with
four issuers. Motions to dismiss have been fully
briefed but have not been decided by the Court.

Interchange
Litigation.  On June 22, 2005, a group of
merchants filed a putative class action complaint
in the United States District Court for the
District of Connecticut. The complaint alleged that
VISA, MasterCard, Chase Bank USA, N.A., and
JPMorgan Chase, as well as certain other banks, and
their respective bank holding companies, conspired
to set the price of credit card interchange fees in
violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The
complaint further alleged tying/bundling and
exclusive dealing. Since the filing of the
Connecticut complaint, other complaints were filed
in different United States District Courts
challenging the setting of interchange, as well as
the card associations  respective rules. All cases
have been consolidated in the Eastern District of
New York for pretrial proceedings. An amended
consolidated class action complaint was filed on
April 24, 2006, that incorporated the interchange
claims, described the alleged anticompetitive
effects of card associations  rules and extended
claims beyond credit to debit cards. Defendants
filed a motion to dismiss all claims that predated
January 1, 2004. On January 8, 2008, the Court
granted the motion to dismiss these claims. On
January 30, 2009, a second amended consolidated class
action complaint was served. The basic theories of
the complaint remain the same. Fact discovery has
closed, and expert discovery in the case is
ongoing. The plaintiffs have filed a motion seeking
class certification, and the defendants have
opposed that motion. The Court has not yet ruled on
the class certification motion.

In addition to the consolidated class action
complaint, plaintiffs filed supplemental complaints
challenging the MasterCard and Visa IPOs. With
respect to MasterCard, plaintiffs first filed a
supplemental complaint in May 2006 alleging that
the offering violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act
and Section 1 of the Sherman Act and that the
offering was a fraudulent conveyance. Defendants
filed a motion to dis-

miss both of those claims. After the issues were
fully briefed, on November 25, 2008, the District
Court dismissed the supplemental complaint with
leave to replead. On January 30, 2009, the
plaintiffs filed and served an amended supplemental
complaint again challenging the MasterCard IPO,
making antitrust claims similar to those that were
set forth in the original supplemental complaint,
as well as the fraudulent conveyance claim. With
respect to the Visa IPO, on
January 30, 2009, the plaintiffs filed a
supplemental complaint challenging the Visa IPO on
antitrust theories parallel to those articulated in
the MasterCard IPO pleading.

Mortgage-Backed Securities Litigation.  JPMorgan
Securities, J.P. Morgan Acceptance Corp I ( JPMAC )
and 32 trusts that issued Mortgage Pass-Through
Certificates and Asset-Backed Pass-Through
Certificates, for which JPMorgan Securities served as underwriter
and JPMAC as depositor, as well as certain officers
and/or directors of JPMAC, are defendants in a
purported class action suit commenced on March 26,
2008, in State court in New York. The suit was
subsequently removed by defendants to the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of
New York. Plaintiffs, two employee benefit plans,
assert claims for violations of the federal
securities laws alleging that the disclosures in
the offering materials for the certificates issued
by the 32 trusts contained material misstatements
and omissions, particularly as to mortgage
origination standards and the risk profile of the
investment. The complaint seeks unspecified damages
and rescission. Pursuant to a stipulation among the
parties, plaintiffs are to serve an amended
complaint by March 9, 2009.

A purported class action suit was commenced on
August 20, 2008, against Bear, Stearns   Co. Inc.
and certain of its subsidiaries and former
employees in New York Supreme Court on behalf of
purchasers of certificates issued in an offering of
Mortgage Loan Pass-Through Certificates. JPMorgan
Chase is also named as a defendant solely in its
alleged capacity as successor-in-interest to Bear,
Stearns   Co. Inc. Plaintiff also asserts claims
for violations of the federal securities laws,
claiming the offering materials for the
certificates allegedly contained material
misstatements and omissions with respect to, among
other things, mortgage origination standards and
the risk profile of the investment. Plaintiff seeks
recovery of unspecified compensatory damages and
rescission. The defendants have removed this action
to the District Court for the Southern District of
New York.

Two purported nationwide class actions alleging
violations of the federal securities laws in
connection with the sale of mortgage-backed
securities have also been brought against
Washington Mutual Bank and certain of its former
subsidiaries by three employee retirement plans.
The first case (the  State-Filed Action ) was filed
in the Superior Court of the State Washington,
County of King on August 4, 2008, against
Washington Mutual Bank; three former Washington
Mutual Bank subsidiaries that are now subsidiaries
of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (WaMu Asset Acceptance
Corp., WaMu Capital Corp., Washington Mutual
Mortgage Securities Corp.); and four former
Washington Mutual Bank employees (some of whom are
now JPMorgan Chase employees). The plaintiffs in
this case allege that defendants made false and
misleading statements and omissions relating to
mortgage origination and underwriting standards in
offering materials for Mortgage Pass-Through
certificates, backed by

14 

Table of Contents   

pools of
Washington Mutual Bank-originated, first-lien, prime mortgages. Plaintiffs also allege that
defendants failed to disclose Washington Mutual
Bank s alleged coercion of or collusion with
appraisal vendors to inflate appraisal valuations
and thus misrepresented the loan-to-value ratios
of, and the adequacy of appraisals supporting, the
loans in the pools. On January 28, 2009, the state
court issued an order substituting the FDIC as
defendant for Washington Mutual Bank. On January
29, 2009, the FDIC removed this action to the
United States District Court for the Western
District of Washington. On February 5, 2009, the
FDIC moved to stay the State-Filed Action pending
completion of the FDIC s administrative review of
plaintiff s claims.

The second case (the  Federal-Filed Action ) filed
on January 12, 2009, is pending in the United
States District Court for the Western District of
Washington in Seattle against Washington Mutual
Bank, WaMu Asset Acceptance Corp., WaMu Capital
Corp., the same individuals named in the
State-Filed Action, and 19 securitization trusts. The
plaintiff in the Federal-Filed Action makes similar
allegations to the State-Filed Action, but does not
specifically challenge defendants  appraisal
practices. On February 10, 2009, the Court in the
Federal-Filed Action ordered that the FDIC be
substituted as defendant for Washington Mutual
Bank. On February 12, 2009, the FDIC moved to
dismiss it from the Federal-Filed Action without
prejudice because plaintiffs failed to exhaust
administrative remedies before filing their
lawsuit. On February 19, 2009, the non-FDIC defendants moved in the
Federal-Filed Action to consolidate that action with the State-Filed
Action.

EMC
Mortgage Corporation ( EMC ), a subsidiary of
JPMorgan Chase, has been named as a defendant in an
action commenced on November 5, 2008, in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of
New York, by Ambac Assurance Corp., a mono-line
bond insurer that guaranteed payment on certain
classes of mortgage-backed securities issued by
EMC. This lawsuit involves four EMC
securitizations. Plaintiff claims the loans that
served as collateral for the four transactions had
origination defects that purportedly violate
certain representations and warranties given by EMC
to plaintiff and that EMC has breached the relevant
agreements between the parties by failing to
repurchase allegedly defective mortgage loans.
Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and an order
compelling EMC to repurchase individual loans that
are allegedly in breach of EMC s representations
and warranties.

In addition, the Firm has been named as a
defendant in its capacity as an underwriter for
other issuers in other litigation involving
mortgage-backed securities.

Auction-Rate Securities Investigations and
Litigation.  Beginning in March 2008, several
regulatory authorities initiated investigations of
a number of industry participants, including the
Firm, concerning possible state and federal
securities law violations in connection with the
sale of auction-rate securities. The market for
many such securities had frozen and a significant
number of auctions for those securities began to
fail in
February 2008. Multiple state and federal agencies,
including the SEC, the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ), the Attorney General
of the State of New York, the State of Florida
Office of Financial Regulation, on behalf of the
North American Securities

Administrators
Association ( NASAA ), and the
Massachusetts Attorney General, have either
requested information from JPMorgan Chase or issued
subpoenas to JPMorgan Chase regarding the
activities of its affiliates with respect to
auction-rate securities.

On August 13, 2008, the Firm, on behalf of itself
and affiliates, agreed to a settlement in principle
with the New York Attorney General s Office which
provided, among other things, that the Firm would
offer to purchase at par certain auction-rate
securities purchased from JPMorgan Securities,
Chase Investment Services Corp. and Bear, Stearns  
Co. Inc. by individual investors, charities, and
small- to medium-sized businesses with account
values of up to $10 million no later than November
12, 2008. On August 14, 2008, the Firm agreed to a
substantively similar settlement in principle with
the Office of Financial Regulation for the State of
Florida and NASAA Task Force, which agreed
to recommend approval of the settlement to all
remaining states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin
Islands. The agreements in principle provide for
the payment of penalties totaling $25 million to
New York and the other states.

JPMorgan Chase is currently in the process of
negotiating final settlement documentation with
the New York Attorney General s Office and the
Office of Financial Regulation for the State of
Florida. JPMorgan Chase has cooperated, and will
continue to cooperate, with the ongoing SEC s
investigation.

On October 17, 2008, following an investigation by
FINRA into auction-rate securities practices of
WaMu Investments Inc., a former Washington Mutual
Bank subsidiary acquired by the Firm in the
Washington Mutual transaction. WaMu Investments,
Inc. resolved the matter by submitting a Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver and Consent to FINRA. Without
admitting or denying the findings, WaMu
Investments, Inc. consented to findings by FINRA
that it violated certain NASD Rules relating to
communications with the public and supervisory
procedures and, among other things, agreed to offer
to purchase at par auction-rate securities
purchased by certain WaMu Investments, Inc.
customers and to pay a fine of $250,000.

The Firm is the subject of two putative securities
class actions in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York and a number
of individual arbitrations and lawsuits relating to
the Firm s sales of auction-rate securities. Each
complaint alleges that JPMorgan Chase marketed
auction-rate securities as safe, liquid, short-term
investments although it knew that auction-rate
securities were long-dated debt instruments. The
complaints also allege that JPMorgan Chase and
other broker-dealers artificially supported the
auction-rate securities market and that JPMorgan Chase knew
that the market would become illiquid if the firms
stopped supporting the auctions but did not
disclose this fact to investors. Each of the named
plaintiffs in these actions accepted JPMorgan
Chase s buy-back offer as part of its settlement
with the regulatory agencies and no longer owns any
auction-rate securities. Judge Berman of the United
States District Court for the Southern District of
New York consolidated the two putative securities
class actions and appointed lead plaintiffs and
lead counsel involving the sale of auction-rate
securities. One of the groups of plaintiffs
previously seeking lead

15 

Table of Contents   

Part I 

plaintiff status filed a motion for
reconsideration of the Court s order. The motion
for reconsideration has been fully briefed and is
pending before the Court.

Additionally,  the Firm is the subject of two
putative antitrust class actions in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of
New York,  which actions allege that the Firm,  in
collusion with numerous other financial institution
defendants,  entered into an unlawful conspiracy in
violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act.
Specifically,  the complaints allege that defendants
acted collusively to maintain and stabilize the
auction-rate securities market and similarly acted
collusively in withdrawing their support for the
auction-rate securities market in February 2008.
JPMorgan Chase and the other defendants filed a
joint motion to dismiss both actions. Plaintiffs 
opposition to the motion is due on March 19, 2009.

In addition to the various cases,  proceedings and
investigations discussed above,  JPMorgan Chase and
its subsidiaries are named as defendants or
otherwise involved in a number of other legal
actions and governmental proceedings arising in
connection with their businesses. Additional
actions,  investigations or proceedings may be
initiated from time to time in the future. In view
of the inherent difficulty

of predicting the outcome of legal matters,
particularly where the claimants seek very large or
indeterminate damages,  or where the cases present
novel legal theories,  involve a large number of
parties or are in early stages of discovery,  the
Firm cannot state with confidence what the eventual
outcome of these pending matters will be,  what the
timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters
will be or what the eventual loss,  fines,  penalties
or impact related to each pending matter may be.
JPMorgan Chase believes,  based upon its current
knowledge,  after consultation with counsel and
after taking into account its current litigation
reserves,  that the outcome of the legal actions,
proceedings and investigations currently pending
against it should not have a material adverse
effect on the Firm s consolidated financial
condition. However,  in light of the uncertainties
involved in such proceedings,  actions and
investigations,  there is no assurance that the
ultimate resolution of these matters will not
significantly exceed the reserves currently accrued
by the Firm; as a result,  the outcome of a
particular matter may be material to JPMorgan
Chase s operating results for a particular period,
depending on,  among other factors,  the size of the
loss or liability imposed and the level of JPMorgan
Chase s income for that period.

ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

Executive officers of the registrant 

Name  
       
      Age  (at
December 31, 2008)

Positions and offices 

James Dimon  
       
      52  
       
      Chairman of the Board since December 31,  2006,  and President and Chief
Executive Officer since December 31,  2005. He had been President and Chief
Operating Officer from July 1,  2004,  until December 31,  2005. Prior to the
merger between JPMorgan Chase   Co. and Bank One Corporation (the
 Merger ), he had been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Bank One
Corporation.

Frank J. Bisignano  
       
      49  
       
      Chief Administrative Officer since December 2005. Prior to joining JPMorgan
Chase,  he had been Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup Inc. s Global
Transaction Services.

Steven D. Black  
       
      56  
       
      Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Investment Bank since March 2004,  prior to
which he had been Deputy Head of the Investment Bank.

Michael J. Cavanagh  
       
      42  
       
      Chief Financial Officer since September 2004,  prior to which he had been Head
of Middle Market Banking. Prior to the Merger,  he had been Chief
Administrative Officer of Commercial Banking and Chief Operating Officer of
Middle Market Banking at Bank One Corporation.

Stephen M. Cutler  
       
      47  
       
      General Counsel since February 2007. Prior to joining JPMorgan Chase,  he was
a partner and co-chair of the Securities Department at the law firm of
WilmerHale since October 2005. Prior to joining WilmerHale,  he had been
Director of the Division of Enforcement at the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission since October 2001.

William M. Daley  
       
      60  
       
      Head of Corporate Responsibility since June 2007 and Chairman of the
Midwest Region since May 2004. Prior to joining JPMorgan Chase,  he had been
President of SBC Communications.

16 

Table of Contents   

Parts I and II 

Ina R. Drew  
       
      52  
       
      Chief Investment Officer since February 2005,  prior to which she was Head of
Global Treasury.

Samuel Todd Maclin  
       
      52  
       
      Head of Commercial Banking since July 2004,  prior to which he had been
Chairman and CEO of the Texas Region and Head of Middle Market Banking.

Jay Mandelbaum  
       
      46  
       
      Head of Strategy and Business Development. Prior to the Merger,  he had been
Head of Strategy and Business Development since September 2002 at Bank
One Corporation.

Heidi Miller  
       
      55  
       
      Chief Executive Officer of Treasury   Securities Services. Prior to the Merger,  she
had been Chief Financial Officer at Bank One Corporation.

Charles W. Scharf  
       
      43  
       
      Chief Executive Officer of Retail Financial Services. Prior to the Merger,  he had
been Head of Retail Banking at Bank One Corporation.

Gordon A. Smith  
       
      50  
       
      Chief Executive Officer of Card Services since June 2007. Prior to joining
JPMorgan Chase,  he was with American Express Company for more than 25
years. From August 2005 until June 2007,  he was president of American
Express  global commercial card business. Prior to that,  he was president of the
consumer card services group and was responsible for all consumer card products in the U.S.

James E. Staley  
       
      52  
       
      Chief Executive Officer of Asset Management.

William T. Winters  
       
      47  
       
      Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Investment Bank since March 2004,  prior to
which he had been Deputy Head of the Investment Bank and Head of Credit  
Rate Markets.

Barry L. Zubrow  
       
      55  
       
      Chief Risk Officer since November 2007. Prior to joining JPMorgan Chase,  he
was a private investor and has been Chairman of the New Jersey Schools
Development Authority since March 2006; prior to November 2003 he held a
variety of positions at The Goldman Sachs Group,  including Chief Administrative
Officer from 1999.

Unless otherwise noted,  during the five fiscal years ended December 31, 2008,  all of JPMorgan
Chase s above-named executive officers have continuously held senior-level positions with JPMorgan
Chase or its predecessor institution,  Bank One Corporation prior to
the Merger. There are no family relationships among
the foregoing executive officers.

Part II 

ITEM 5:
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON 
EQUITY,  RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND 
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The outstanding shares of JPMorgan Chase common
stock are listed and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange,  the London Stock Exchange Limited and the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. For the quarterly high and
low prices of JPMorgan Chase s common stock on the
New York Stock Exchange for the last two years,  see
the section entitled  Supplementary information  
Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)  on
page 217. For a comparison of the cumulative total
return for JPMorgan Chase common stock with the
comparable total return of the S P 500 Index and
the S P Financial Index over the five-year period
ended December 31,  2008,  see  Five-year stock
performance,  on page 27.

On
February 23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the Firm's
quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 per share,
effective for the dividend payable April 30, 2009 to
shareholders of record on April 6, 2009.
 JPMorgan Chase declared
quarterly cash dividends on its common stock in the
amount of $0.38 for each quarter of 2008 and the
second,  third and fourth quarters of 2007,  and $0.34 per share for the first quarter of 2007 and
for each quarter of 2006. The common dividend
payout ratio,  based upon reported net income,  was
114% for 2008,  and 34% for both 2007 and 2006. For
a discussion

of restrictions on dividend payments,
see Note 24 on pages 193 194 and for additional information
regarding the reduction of the dividend, see page 32.

At January 31,  2009,
there were 233,908 holders of record of JPMorgan
Chase common stock.

On April 17, 2007,  the Board of Directors authorized
the repurchase of up to $10.0 billion of the Firm s
common shares,  which supercedes an $8.0 billion
repurchase program approved in 2006. The $10.0
billion authorization includes shares to be
repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm s
employee stock-based plans. The actual number of
shares repurchased is subject to various factors,
including market conditions; legal considerations
affecting the amount and timing of repurchase
activity; the Firm s capital position (taking into
account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital
generation; and alternative potential investment
opportunities. The repurchase program does not
include specific price targets or timetables,  may
be executed through open market purchases or
privately negoti-

17 

Table of Contents   

Part II 

ated transactions,  or utilizing a written
trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934,  and may be suspended at any
time. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm
to repurchase shares during periods when it would
not otherwise be repurchasing common stock,  for
example during internal trading  black-out periods.  All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be
made according to a predefined plan that is
established when the Firm is not aware of material
nonpublic information.

In order to maintain its capital objectives,  the
Firm did not repurchase any shares during the
fourth quarter and full year of 2008,  under the
current $10.0 billion stock repurchase program. As
of December 31, 2008, $6.2 billion of authorized
repurchase capacity remained under the current
stock repurchase program. For a discussion of
restrictions on stock repurchases,  see Capital
Purchase Program on page 72 and Note 24 on pages
193 194.

Stock repurchases under the stock-based incentive plans 

Participants in the Firm s stock-based incentive
plans may have shares withheld to cover income
taxes. Shares withheld to pay income taxes are
repurchased pursuant to the terms of the applicable
plan and not under the Firm s share repurchase
program. Shares repurchased after October 28,  2008,
were repurchased in accordance with an exemption
from the Capital Purchase Program s stock
repurchase restrictions. Shares repurchased
pursuant to these plans during 2008 were as
follows:

ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

For five-year selected financial data,  see
 Five-year summary of consolidated financial
highlights (unaudited)  on page 26 and  Selected
annual financial data (unaudited)  on page 218.

ITEM 7: MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management s discussion and analysis of
financial condition and results of operations,
entitled  Management s discussion and analysis,  appears on pages 27 through 114. Such information
should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto,  which appear on pages 118 through 216.

ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

For information related to market risk,
see the  Market Risk Management  section on
pages 99 through 104.

ITEM 8: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The consolidated financial statements,  together
with the notes thereto and the report of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 27,  2009,
thereon,  appear on pages 117 through 216.

Supplementary financial data for each full quarter
within the two years ended December 31,  2008,  are
included on page 217 in the table entitled
 Supplementary information   Selected quarterly
financial data (unaudited).  Also included is a
 Glossary of terms   on pages 219 222.

ITEM 9: CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

As of the end of the period covered by this
report,  an evaluation was carried out under the
supervision and with the participation of the
Firm s management,  including its Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer,
of the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon that
evaluation,  the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded
that these disclosure controls and procedures were
effective. See Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 for the
Certification statements issued by the Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer.

The Firm is committed to maintaining high standards
of internal control over financial reporting.
Nevertheless,  because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. In addition,  in a
firm as large and complex as JPMorgan Chase,  lapses
or deficiencies in internal controls may occur from
time to time,  and there can be no assurance that
any such deficiencies will not result in
significant deficiencies   or even material
weaknesses   in internal controls in the
future. See page 116 for  Management s report on
internal control over financial reporting.  There
was no change in the Firm s internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that
occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008 that has
materially affected,  or is reasonably likely to
materially affect,  the Firm s internal control over
financial reporting.

ITEM 9B: OTHER INFORMATION

None.

18 

Table of Contents   

Part III and IV 

Part III 

ITEM 10:
DIRECTORS,  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

See Item 13 below.

ITEM 11: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

See Item 13 below.

ITEM 12: SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

For security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management,  see Item 13 below.

The following table details the total number of shares available for issuance under JPMorgan
Chase s employee stock-based incentive plans (including shares available for issuance to
nonemployee directors). The Firm is not authorized to grant stock-based incentive awards to
nonemployees other than to nonemployee directors.

(a) 
       
     Represents future shares available under the shareholder-approved 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan,  as amended and restated effective May 20, 2008. 

All future shares will be issued under the shareholder-approved 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan,
as amended and restated effective May 20,  2008. For further information see Note 10 on pages
155 158.

ITEM 13: CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE

Information to be provided in Items 10, 11, 12, 13
and 14 of Form 10-K and not otherwise included
herein is incorporated by reference to the Firm s
definitive proxy statement for its 2008 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 19,  2009,
which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days of
the end of the Firm s fiscal year ended December
31, 2008.

ITEM 14: PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES
SERVICES

See Item 13 above.

Part IV 

ITEM 15: EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES

Exhibits,  financial statement schedules 

1. 
       
     Financial statements 

The Consolidated financial statements, the Notes thereto and the report thereon listed in Item 8
are set forth commencing on page 18. 

2. 
       
     Financial statement schedules 

19 

Table of Contents   

Part IV 

3.4 
       
     Certificate of Designations of 5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase   Co. (File No.
1-5805) filed July 16, 2008). 

3.5 
       
     Certificate of Designations of 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase   Co. (File No.
1-5805) filed July 16, 2008). 

3.6 
       
     Certificate of Designations of 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of JPMorgan Chase   Co. (File No.
1-5805) filed September 17, 2008). 

3.7 
       
     Certificate of Designations of Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase   Co. (File No.
1-5805) filed October 31, 2008). 

3.8 
       
     By-laws of JPMorgan Chase   Co., effective July 15, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
3.4 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase   Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed July 16,
2008). 

4.1(a) 
       
     Indenture, dated as of December 1, 1989, between Chemical Banking Corporation (now known as
JPMorgan Chase   Co.) and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) (succeeded by Deutsche
Bank Trust Company Americas), as Trustee. 

4.1(b) 
       
     First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2007, between JPMorgan Chase   Co. and
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, to the Indenture,
dated as of December 1, 1989
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report
on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase   Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed November 7, 2007). 

4.1(c) 
       
     Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 22, 2008, between JPMorgan Chase   Co.
and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, to the
Indenture, dated as of December 1, 1989. 

4.2(a) 
       
     Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1987, as amended and restated as of December 15, 1992,
between Chemical Banking Corporation (now known as JPMorgan Chase   Co.) and Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company of New York (succeeded by U.S. Bank Trust National Association), as Trustee (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.3(a) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase   Co. (File No.
1-5805) for the year ended December 31, 2005). 

4.2(b) 
       
     Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 29, 2000, between The Chase Manhattan
Corporation (now known as JPMorgan Chase   Co.) and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as
Trustee, to the Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1987, as amended and restated as of December 15,
1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3(c) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan
Chase   Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31, 2005). 

4.3(a) 
       
     Indenture, dated as of May 25, 2001, between J.P. Morgan Chase   Co. and Bankers Trust
Company (succeeded by Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas), as Trustee (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4(a)(1) to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 of J.P. Morgan Chase   Co. (File No.
333-52826) filed June 13, 2001). 

Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of JPMorgan
Chase   Co. and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of
Regulation S-K. JPMorgan Chase   Co. agrees to furnish copies of these instruments to the SEC upon
request. 

20 

Table of Contents   

21 

Table of Contents   

Part IV 

* 
       
     This exhibit is a management contract or
compensatory plan or arrangement. 

22 

Table of Contents   

Pages 23 and 24 not used

23 

Table of Contents   

Table of contents 

Financial:  

26

Five-Year Summary of Consolidated Financial Highlights  

27

Five-Year Stock Performance  

Management s discussion and analysis:   

27

Introduction  

29

Executive Overview  

33

Consolidated Results of Operations  

38

Explanation and Reconciliation
of the Firm s Use of Non-GAAP
Financial Measures  

40

Business Segment Results  

64

Balance Sheet Analysis  

67

Off Balance Sheet
Arrangements and
Contractual Cash
Obligations  

70

Capital Management  

74

Risk Management  

76

Liquidity Risk Management  

80

Credit Risk Management  

99

Market Risk Management  

105

Private Equity Risk Management  

105

Operational Risk Management  

106

Reputation and Fiduciary Risk Management  

107

Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm  

111

Accounting and Reporting Developments  

114

Nonexchange-Traded Commodity Derivative Contracts at Fair Value  

115

Forward-Looking Statements  

Audited financial statements:  

116

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

117

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm  

118

Consolidated Financial Statements  

122

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

Supplementary information:   

216

Selected Quarterly Financial Data  

217

Selected Annual
Financial Data  

218

Glossary of Terms  

Table of Contents   

Five-year summary of consolidated financial highlights 

(a) 
       
     Results for 2008 and 2004 included an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision
related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank s banking operations and the merger with Bank
One Corporation, respectively. 

(b) 
       
     The income tax benefit in 2008 is the result of the release of previously established deferred
tax liabilities on non-U.S. earnings and business tax credits. 

(c) 
       
     On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase   Co. completed the exchange of selected corporate trust
businesses for the consumer, business banking and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of
New York Company Inc. The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses are being
reported as discontinued operations for each of the periods presented. 

(d) 
       
     Effective September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington
Mutual Bank for $1.9 billion. The fair value of the net assets acquired exceeded the purchase price
which resulted in negative goodwill. In accordance with SFAS 141, nonfinancial assets that are not
held-for-sale were written down against that negative goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained
after writing down nonfinancial assets was recognized as an extraordinary gain in 2008. 

(e) 
       
     JPMorgan Chase s common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the London
Stock Exchange Limited and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The high, low and closing prices of JPMorgan
Chase s common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape. 

(f) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. For additional information on these
transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128 of this Annual Report. 

(g) 
       
     On July 1, 2004, Bank One Corporation merged with and
into JPMorgan Chase. Accordingly, 2004
results include six months of the combined Firm s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase
results. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

FIVE-YEAR STOCK PERFORMANCE 

The following table and graph compare the
five-year cumulative total return for JPMorgan
Chase   Co. ( JPMorgan Chase  or the  Firm ) common
stock with the cumulative return of the S P 500
Stock Index and the S P Financial Index. The S P
500 Index is a commonly referenced U.S. equity
benchmark consisting of leading companies from
different economic sectors. The S P Financial Index
is an index of 81 financial companies, all of which
are within the S P 500. The Firm is a component of
both industry indices.

The following table and graph assumes simultaneous
investments of $100 on December 31, 2003, in
JPMorgan Chase common stock and in each of the
above S P indices. The comparison assumes that all
dividends are reinvested.

This section of the JPMorgan Chase s Annual
Report for the year ended December 31, 2008
( Annual Report ) provides management s discussion
and analysis of the financial condition
and results of operations ( MD A ) of JPMorgan Chase. See
the Glossary of terms on pages 218 221 for
definitions of terms used throughout this Annual
Report. The MD A included in this Annual Report
contains statements that are forward-looking within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are
based upon the current beliefs and expectations of
JPMorgan 

Chase s management and are subject to significant
risks and uncertainties. These risks and
uncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase s results
to differ materially from those set forth in such
forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks
and uncertainties are described herein (see
Forward-looking statements on page 115 of this
Annual Report) and in the JPMorgan Chase Annual
Report on   Form 10-K   for the year ended December 31,
2008 ( 2008 Form 10-K ), in Part I, Item 1A: Risk
factors, to which reference is hereby made. 

INTRODUCTION

JPMorgan Chase   Co., a financial holding company
incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a
leading global financial services firm and one of
the largest banking institutions in the United
States of America ( U.S. ), with $2.2 trillion in
assets, $166.9 billion in stockholders  equity and
operations in more than 60 countries as of December
31, 2008. The Firm is a leader in investment
banking, financial services for consumers and
businesses, financial transaction processing and
asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase
brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in
the U.S. and many of the world s most prominent
corporate, institutional and government clients.

JPMorgan Chase s principal bank subsidiaries are
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
( JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ), a national banking
association with branches in 23 states in the U.S.;
and Chase Bank USA, National Association ( Chase
Bank USA, N.A. ), a national bank that is the Firm s
credit card issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase s
principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., the Firm s U.S. investment banking
firm.

JPMorgan Chase s activities are organized, for
management reporting purposes, into six business
segments, as well as Corporate/Private Equity. The
Firm s wholesale businesses comprise the Investment
Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury   Securities
Services and Asset Management segments. The Firm s
consumer businesses comprise the Retail Financial
Services and Card Services segments.

A description
of the Firm s business segments, and the products and
services they provide to their respective client
bases, follows.

Investment Bank  
J.P. Morgan is one of the world s leading
investment banks, with deep client relationships
and broad product capabilities. The Investment
Bank s clients are corporations, financial
institutions, governments and
institutional investors. The Firm offers a full
range of investment banking products and services
in all major capital markets, including advising on
corporate strategy and structure, capital raising
in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk
management, market-making in cash securities and
derivative instruments, prime brokerage and research. The Investment Bank ( IB )
also selectively commits the Firm s own capital to
principal investing and trading activities.

Retail Financial Services  
Retail Financial Services ( RFS ), which includes
the Retail Banking and Consumer Lending reporting
segments, serves consumers and businesses through
personal service at bank branches and through ATMs,
online banking and telephone banking as well as
through auto dealerships and school financial aid
offices. Customers can use more than 5,400 bank
branches (third-largest nationally) and 14,500 ATMs
(second-largest nationally) as well as online and
mobile banking around the clock. More than 21,400
branch salespeople assist

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

customers with checking and savings accounts,
mortgages, home equity and business loans, and
investments across the 23-state footprint from New
York and Florida to California. Consumers also can
obtain loans through more than 16,000 auto
dealerships and 4,800 schools and universities
nationwide.

Card Services  
Chase Card Services ( CS ) is one of the nation s largest
credit card issuers with more than 168 million
cards in circulation and more than $190 billion in
managed loans. Customers used Chase cards to meet
more than $368 billion worth of their spending
needs in 2008. Chase has a market leadership
position in building loyalty and rewards programs
with many of the world s most respected brands and
through its proprietary products, which include
the Chase Freedom program.

Through its merchant acquiring business, Chase
Paymentech Solutions, Chase is one of
the leading processors of MasterCard and Visa
payments.

Commercial Banking  
Commercial Banking ( CB ) serves more than 26,000
clients nationally, including corporations,
municipalities, financial institutions and
not-for-profit entities with annual revenue
generally ranging from $10 million to $2 billion,
and nearly 30,000 real estate investors/owners.
Delivering extensive industry knowledge, local
expertise and dedicated service, CB partners with
the Firm s other businesses to provide
comprehensive solutions, including lending,
treasury services, investment banking and asset
management to meet its clients  domestic and
international financial needs.

Treasury   Securities Services  
Treasury   Securities Services ( TSS ) is a global
leader in transaction, investment and information
services. TSS is one of the world s largest cash
management providers and a leading global
custodian. Treasury Services ( TS ) provides cash
management, trade, wholesale card and liquidity
products and services to small and mid-sized
companies, multinational corporations, financial
institutions and government entities. TS partners
with the Commercial Banking, Retail Financial
Services and Asset Management businesses to serve
clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenue
is included in other segments  results. Worldwide
Securities Services ( WSS ) holds, values, clears
and services securities, cash and alternative
investments for investors and broker-dealers, and
manages depositary receipt programs globally.

Asset Management  
Asset Management ( AM ), with assets under supervision of $1.5 trillion, is a global leader in
investment and wealth management. AM clients
include institutions, retail investors and
high-net-worth individuals in every major market
throughout the world. AM offers global investment
management in equities, fixed income, real estate,
hedge funds, private equity and liquidity,
including money market instruments and bank
deposits. AM also provides trust and estate,
banking and brokerage services to high-net-worth
clients, and retirement services for corporations
and individuals. The majority of AM s client assets
are in actively managed portfolios.

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

This overview of management s discussion and
analysis highlights selected information and may
not contain all of the information that is
important to readers of this Annual Report. For a
complete description of events, trends and
uncertainties, as well as the capital, liquidity,
credit and market risks, and the critical
accounting estimates affecting the Firm and its
various lines of business, this Annual Report
should be read in its entirety. 

Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase 

(a) 
       
     Includes an accounting conformity provision
for credit losses of $1.5 billion related to the
acquisition of Washington Mutual s banking
operations in 2008. 

(b) 
       
     JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of
Washington Mutual Bank from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) for $1.9 billion. The
fair value of the net assets acquired from the FDIC
exceeded the purchase price which resulted in
negative goodwill. In accordance with SFAS 141,
nonfinancial assets that are not held-for-sale were
written down against that negative goodwill. The
negative goodwill that remained after writing down
nonfinancial assets was recognized as an
extraordinary gain in 2008.
The allocation of the purchase price to the net
assets acquired (based on their respective fair
values at September 25, 2008) and the resulting
negative goodwill may be modified through September
25, 2009, as more information is obtained about the
fair value of assets acquired and liabilities
assumed. 

(c) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the
banking operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008,
the Bear Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions
was accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. For additional information on these
transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128 of this Annual Report. 

Business overview   
JPMorgan Chase reported 2008 net income of $5.6
billion, or $1.37 per share, and total net revenue
of $67.3 billion, compared with record net income
of $15.4 billion, or $4.38 per share, and record
total net revenue of $71.4 billion, for 2007. Return
on common equity was 4% in 2008, compared with 13%
in 2007. Results in 2008
include the acquisition of The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. ( Bear
Stearns ) on May 30,
2008, and the acquisition of the banking operations of Washington Mutual
Bank ( Washington Mutual ) on September 25, 2008.

The decline in net income for the year was the
result of a significantly higher provision for
credit losses, reflecting the addition of $13.7
billion to the Firm s allowance for credit losses in
2008; a decline in total net revenue driven by over
$10 billion of markdowns on mortgage-related
positions and leveraged lending exposures in the
Investment Bank; and an increase in total
noninterest expense due

to the impact of the Washington Mutual
transaction and the Bear Stearns merger.

The business environment for financial services
firms was extremely challenging in 2008. The global
economy slowed, with many countries, including the
U.S., slipping into recession. Financial conditions
worsened throughout the year amid a number of
unprecedented developments that undermined the
economic outlook and eroded confidence in global
financial markets. JPMorgan Chase acquired Bear
Stearns through a merger consummated
in May and acquired the banking operations of
Washington Mutual from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) in September. The
U.S. federal government placed the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ) and the
Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie
Mae ) under its control. Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. declared bankruptcy. The Bank of America
Corporation acquired Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and
Wells Fargo   Company acquired Wachovia
Corporation. The government provided a loan to
American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ) in
exchange for an equity interest in AIG to prevent
the insurer s failure. Morgan Stanley, The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc., GMAC, American Express, Discover
Financial Services and CIT Group received approval
from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (the  Federal Reserve ) to become federal
bank holding companies. In other industries,
the U.S. government provided temporary loans to General
Motors Corporation and Chrysler LLC.

These events accompanied severe strains in term
funding markets, reflecting heightened concerns
about counterparty risk. As a result, LIBOR rates
rose significantly in the fall, despite a round of
coordinated rate cuts by a number of central banks.
By year-end, LIBOR rates eased in response to
proposals to insure deposits and selected debt of
financial institutions. The turmoil in financial
markets during 2008 led to tighter credit
conditions and diminished liquidity, causing
consumers and businesses around the world to become
more cautious and curtail spending and investment
activity. As a result, the U.S. economy contracted
sharply, 2.8 million jobs were lost in 2008, and
the U.S. unemployment rate rose significantly, to
7.2% by year-end.

The continued economic and financial disruption led
the Federal Reserve to reduce its target overnight
interest rates to near zero in the fourth quarter
of 2008, capping off a year of near-continuous rate
reductions. In addition, the U.S. Department of the
Treasury (the  U.S. Treasury ), the Federal Reserve
and the FDIC, working in cooperation with foreign
governments and other central banks, including the
Bank of England, the European Central Bank and the
Swiss National Bank, began, in the fourth quarter
of 2008, to take a variety of extraordinary
measures designed to restore confidence in the
financial markets and strengthen financial
institutions, including capital injections,
guarantees of bank liabilities and the acquisition
of illiquid assets from banks. In particular, on
October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (the  EESA ) was signed
into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury
has the authority to take a range of

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

actions to stabilize and provide liquidity to
the U.S. financial markets, including the purchase
by the U.S. Treasury of certain troubled assets
from financial institutions (the  Troubled Asset
Relief Program ) and the direct purchase by the
U.S. Treasury of equity of financial institutions
(the  Capital Purchase Program ).

The efforts to restore confidence in the financial
markets and promote economic growth continue in
2009, with initiatives including a fiscal stimulus
bill, the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of
2009, which was signed into law by President Barack
Obama on February 17, 2009. Also in February,
the U.S. Treasury outlined a
plan to restore stability to the
financial system and President Obama proposed a
plan to help distressed homeowners. The Federal Reserve, working
with other government and regulatory agencies, has
also implemented a number of new programs to
promote the proper functioning of the credit
markets and reintroduce liquidity to the financial
system. Such
actions taken by U.S. regulatory agencies include
the introduction of programs to restore liquidity
to money market mutual funds, the commercial paper
market, and other fixed-income securities markets.
In addition, the FDIC issued a temporary liquidity guarantee
program (the  TLG Program ) for the senior debt of all FDIC-insured
institutions, as well as deposits in
noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts.

Despite the difficult operating environment and
overall drop in earnings, JPMorgan Chase maintained
a strong balance sheet and produced underlying
growth in many business areas. The Tier 1 capital
ratio was 10.9% at year-end; Treasury   Securities
Services and
Commercial Banking each reported record revenue and
net income for the second straight year; the
consumer businesses opened millions of new checking
and credit card accounts; Asset Management
experienced record net inflows in assets under
management; and the Investment Bank gained market
share in all major fee categories. The diversified
nature of the Firm s businesses and its strong
capital position enabled it to weather the
recessionary environment during 2008.

JPMorgan Chase has taken a leadership role in
helping to stabilize the financial markets. It
assumed the risk and expended the necessary
resources to acquire Bear Stearns and the banking
operations of Washington Mutual. In October 2008,
the Firm agreed to accept a $25 billion capital
investment by the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program.
JPMorgan Chase has continued to lend to clients in a safe and sound
manner and to provide liquidity to multiple
financial markets. The Firm has implemented
programs that have prevented more than 300,000
foreclosures, with plans to help more than 400,000
more families keep their homes through Chase-owned
mortgage modifications over the next two years. The
Firm has expanded this effort to include over $1.1
trillion of investor-owned mortgages.

The discussion that follows highlights the
performance of each business segment compared with
the prior year, and discusses results on a managed
basis unless otherwise noted. For more information
about managed basis, see Explanation and
reconciliation of the Firm s use of non-GAAP
financial measures on pages 38 39 of this Annual
Report. 

Investment Bank  reported a net loss for the year,
compared with net income in 2007. The significant
decline in results reflected lower total net
revenue, a higher provision for credit losses and
higher total noninterest expense. Markdowns of over
$10 billion on mortgage-related positions and
leveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments
drove fixed income trading revenue lower;
investment banking fees and equity trading revenue
declined as well. These decreases were offset by
record performance in rates and currencies, credit
trading, commodities and emerging markets, as well
as strong equity client revenue, and gains from the
widening of the Firm s credit spread on certain
structured liabilities and derivatives. The
provision for credit losses rose from the 2007
level, predominantly reflecting a higher allowance
for credit losses, driven by a weakening credit
environment, as well as the effect of the transfer
of $4.9 billion of funded and unfunded leveraged
lending commitments to retained loans from
held-for-sale in the first quarter of 2008. The
increase in total noninterest expense was largely
driven by additional expense relating to the Bear
Stearns merger, offset partially by lower
performance-based compensation expense. In
addition, IB benefited from a reduction in deferred
tax liabilities on overseas earnings.

Retail Financial Services  net income declined,
reflecting a significant increase in the provision
for credit losses, predominantly offset by positive
mortgage servicing rights ( MSR ) risk management
results and the positive impact of the Washington
Mutual transaction. Additional drivers of revenue
growth included wider loan and deposit spreads and
higher loan and deposit balances. The provision for
credit losses increased as housing price declines
have continued to result in significant increases
in estimated losses, particularly for high
loan-to-value home equity and mortgage loans. The
provision was also affected by an increase in
estimated losses for the auto, student and business
banking loan portfolios. Total noninterest expense
rose from the 2007 level, reflecting the impact of
the Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage
reinsurance losses, increased mortgage servicing
expense and investments in the retail distribution
network.

Card Services  net income declined, driven by a
higher provision for credit losses partially offset
by higher managed total net revenue. The growth in
managed total net revenue was driven by the impact
of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher
average managed loan balances, wider loan spreads
and increased interchange income, off-set
predominantly by increased rewards expense and
higher volume-driven payments to partners, as well
as the effect of higher revenue reversals
associated with higher charge-offs. The managed
provision for credit losses increased from the
prior year due to an increase in the allowance for
loan losses and a higher level of charge-offs.
Total noninterest expense rose from last year,
largely due to the impact of the Washington Mutual
transaction.

Commercial Banking  net income increased, surpassing
the record level posted in 2007. The results were
driven by record total net revenue, partially
offset by an increase in the provision for credit
losses. The increase in revenue was driven by
double-digit growth in liability and loan balances,
the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction,
higher deposit and lending-related fees, and
increases in other fee

Table of Contents   

income. These were partially offset by spread
compression in the liability and loan portfolios.
The increase in the provision for credit losses
reflected a weakening credit environment and growth
in loan balances. Total noninterest expense
decreased from the prior year, due to lower
performance-based incentive compensation and
volume-based charges from service providers,
predominantly offset by the impact of the
Washington Mutual transaction.

Treasury   Securities Services  net income increased
over the record level set in 2007, driven by record
total net revenue, partially offset by higher
noninterest expense. Worldwide Securities Services
posted record net revenue, driven by wider spreads
in securities lending, foreign exchange and
liability products, increased
product usage by new and existing clients, and
higher liability balances. These benefits were
partially offset by market depreciation. Treasury
Services posted record net revenue, reflecting
higher liability balances and volume growth in
electronic funds transfer products and trade loans.
Total noninterest expense increased, reflecting
higher expense related to business and volume
growth, as well as continued investment in new
product platforms.

Asset Management  net income decreased, driven by
lower total net revenue, offset partially by lower
total noninterest expense. The decline in revenue
was due to lower performance fees and the effect of
lower markets, including the impact of lower market
valuations of seed capital investments. Partially
offsetting these revenue declines were higher
deposit and loan balances, the benefit of the Bear
Stearns merger, increased revenue from net asset
inflows and wider deposit spreads. The provision
for credit losses rose from the prior year,
reflecting an increase in loan balances, higher net
charge-offs and a weakening credit environment.
Total noninterest expense declined compared with
2007, driven by lower performance-based
compensation, largely offset by the effect of the
Bear Stearns merger and higher compensation expense
resulting from increased average headcount.

Corporate/Private Equity  net income declined from
the 2007 level and included an extraordinary gain
related to the Washington Mutual transaction and a
conforming loan loss provision. Excluding these
items, the decrease in net income from the prior
year was driven by private equity losses in 2008,
compared with gains in 2007, losses on preferred
securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and a
charge related to the offer to repurchase
auction-rate securities. These declines were
partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of
Visa shares in its initial public offering and a
gain on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech
Solutions joint venture and the gain from the sale
of MasterCard shares. The decrease in total
noninterest expense reflected a reduction of credit
card-related litigation expense, partially offset
by higher merger costs.

The Firm s managed provision for credit losses was
$24.6 billion for 2008, compared with $9.2 billion
for 2007. The total consumer-managed provision for
credit losses was $21.3 billion, compared with $8.3
billion in the prior year, reflecting increases in
the allowance for credit losses related to home
equity, mortgage and credit card loans, as well as
higher net charge-offs. Consumer-managed net
charge-offs were $13.0 billion, compared with $6.8
billion in the prior year,

resulting in managed net charge-off rates of 3.06%
and 1.97%, respectively. The wholesale provision
for credit losses was $3.3 billion, compared with
$934 million in the prior year, due to an increase
in the allowance for credit losses reflecting the
effect of a weakening credit environment and loan
growth. Wholesale net charge-offs were $402
million, compared with net charge-offs of $72
million in the prior year, resulting in net
charge-off rates
of 0.18% and 0.04%, respectively. The Firm had
total nonperforming assets of $12.7 billion at
December 31, 2008, up from the prior-year level of
$3.9 billion.

Total stockholders  equity at December 31, 2008,
was $166.9 billion, and the Tier 1 capital ratio
was 10.9%. During 2008, the Firm raised $11.5
billion of common equity and $32.8 billion of
preferred equity, including a warrant issued to the
U.S. Treasury.

2009 Business outlook  
 The following forward-looking statements are
based upon the current beliefs and expectations of
JPMorgan Chase s management and are subject to
significant risks and uncertainties. These risks
and uncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase s
actual results to differ materially from those set
forth in such forward-looking statements. 

JPMorgan
Chase s outlook for 2009 should be viewed against the backdrop
of the global and U.S. economies, financial markets activity,
the geopolitical environment, the competitive environment and client
activity levels. Each of these linked factors will affect the
performance of the Firm and its lines of business. In addition, as a
result of recent market conditions and events, Congress and
regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of financial
institutions. The Firm s current expectations are for the global
and U.S. economic environments to weaken further and potentially
faster, capital markets to remain under stress, for there to be a
continued decline in U.S. housing prices, and for Congress and
regulators to continue to adopt legislation and regulations that
could limit or restrict the Firm s operations, or impose
additional costs upon the Firm in order to comply with such new laws
or rules. These factors are likely to continue to adversely impact
the Firm s revenue, credit costs, overall business volumes and
earnings.

Given the potential
stress on the consumer from rising unemployment,
the continued downward pressure on housing prices
and the elevated national inventory of unsold
homes, management remains extremely cautious with
respect to the credit outlook for home equity,
mortgage and credit card portfolios. Management expects continued deterioration
in credit trends for the home equity, mortgage and credit card portfolios, which
will likely require additions to the consumer loan
loss allowance in 2009 or beyond. Economic data released in early 2009 indicated
that housing prices and the labor market have weakened further since
year-end, and that deterioration could continue into late 2009.
Based on management s current economic outlook,
quarterly net charge-offs could, over the next several
quarters, reach $1.0 billion to $1.4 billion for the home equity
portfolio, $375 million to $475 million for the prime mortgage
portfolio, and $375 million to $475 million for the
subprime mortgage portfolio. Management expects the
managed net charge-off rate for Card Services
(excluding the impact resulting from the
acquisition of Washington Mutual s banking
operations) to approach 7% in the first quarter of
2009 and likely higher by the end of
the year depending on unemployment levels. These charge-off rates could increase
even further if the economic environment continues
to deteriorate

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

further than management s current
expectations. The wholesale provision for credit
losses and nonperforming assets are likely to
increase over time as a result of the
deterioration in underlying credit conditions.
Wholesale net charge-offs in 2008 increased from
historic lows in 2007 and are likely to increase
materially in 2009 as a result of increasing
weakness in the credit environment.

The Investment Bank continues to be negatively
affected by the disruption in the credit and
mortgage markets, as well as by overall lower
levels of liquidity. The continuation of these
factors could potentially lead to reduced levels of
client activity, lower investment banking fees and
lower trading revenue. In addition, if the Firm s
own credit spreads tighten, as they did in the
fourth quarter of 2008, the change in the fair
value of certain trading liabilities would also
negatively affect trading results. The Firm held
$12.6 billion (gross notional) of legacy leveraged
loans and unfunded commitments as held-for-sale as
of December 31, 2008. Markdowns averaging 45% of
the gross notional value have been taken on these
legacy positions as of December 31, 2008, resulting
in a net carrying value of $6.9 billion. Leveraged
loans and unfunded commitments are difficult to
hedge effectively, and if market conditions further
deteriorate, additional markdowns may be necessary
on this asset class. The Investment Bank also held,
at December 31, 2008, an aggregate $6.1 billion of
prime and Alt-A mortgage exposure, which is also
difficult to hedge effectively, and $875 million of
subprime mortgage exposure. In addition, the
Investment Bank had $7.7 billion of commercial
mortgage exposure. In spite of active hedging,
mortgage exposures could be adversely affected by
worsening market conditions and further deterioration
in the housing market. The combination of credit
costs and additional markdowns on the various exposures noted above
could reach or exceed $2.0 billion for the first quarter of 2009.

Earnings in Commercial Banking and Treasury  
Securities Services could decline due to the impact of tighter
spreads in the low interest rate environment or a decline in the level of liability balances. Earnings in
Treasury   Securities Services and Asset Management
will likely deteriorate if market levels continue
to decline, due to reduced levels of assets under
management, supervision and custody. Earnings in the Corporate/Private
Equity segment could be more volatile due to
increases in the size of the Firm s investment
portfolio, which is largely comprised of
investment-grade securities. Private Equity results
are dependent upon the capital markets and at
current market levels, management believes
additional write-downs of $400 million or more are likely in the
first quarter of 2009.

Assuming
economic conditions do not worsen beyond management s current
expectations, management continues to believe that the net income
impact of the acquisition of Washington Mutual s
banking operations could be approximately $0.50 per
share in 2009; the Bear Stearns merger could contribute $1
billion (after-tax) annualized after 2009; and merger-related items, which include both the
Washington Mutual transaction and the Bear Stearns
merger, could be approximately $600 million
(after-tax) in 2009.

Recent
Developments   
On
February 23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the
Firm s quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 per
share, effective for the dividend payable April 30, 2009 to
shareholders of record on April 6, 2009. The action will enable
the Firm to retain an additional $5.0 billion in common equity per
year. The Firm expects to maintain the dividend at this level for the
time being. The action was taken in order to help ensure that the
Firm s balance sheet retained the capital strength necessary to
weather a further decline in economic conditions. The Firm intends to
return to a more normalized dividend payout as soon as feasible after
the environment has stabilized.

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following section provides a comparative
discussion of JPMorgan Chase s Consolidated Results
of Operations on a reported basis for the three-year
period ended December 31, 2008. Factors that related
primarily to a single business segment are discussed
in more detail within that business segment. For a
discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates Used
by the Firm that affect the Consolidated Results of
Operations, see pages 107 111 of this Annual
Report. 

Revenue 

(a) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. For additional information on these
transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128 of this Annual Report. 

2008 compared with 2007   
Total net revenue of $67.3 billion was down $4.1
billion, or 6%, from the prior year. The decline
resulted from the extremely challenging business
environment for financial services firms in 2008.
Principal transactions revenue decreased
significantly and included net markdowns on
mortgage-related positions and leveraged lending
funded and unfunded commitments, losses on
preferred securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
and losses on private equity investments. Also
contributing to the decline in total net revenue
were other losses and markdowns recorded in other
income, including the
Firm s share of Bear Stearns  losses from April 8
to May 30, 2008. These declines were largely offset
by higher net interest income, proceeds from the
sale of Visa shares in its initial public offering,
and the gain on the dissolution of the Chase
Paymentech Solutions joint venture.

Investment banking fees were down from the record
level of the prior year due to lower debt
underwriting fees, as well as lower advisory and
equity underwriting fees, both of which were at
record levels in 2007. These declines were
attributable to reduced market activity. For a
further discussion of investment banking fees,
which are primarily recorded in IB, see IB segment
results on pages 42 44 of this Annual Report.

In 2008, principal transactions revenue, which
consists of revenue from the Firm s trading and
private equity investing activities, declined by
$19.7 billion from the prior year. Trading revenue
decreased $14.5 billion to a negative $9.8 billion
compared with a positive $4.7 billion in 2007. The
decline in trading revenue was largely driven by
higher net markdowns of $5.9 billion on mortgage-

related exposures compared with $1.4 billion in the
prior year; higher net markdowns of $4.7 billion on
leveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments
compared with $1.3 billion in the prior year;
losses of $1.1 billion on preferred securities of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and weaker equity
trading results compared with a record level in
2007. In addition, trading revenue was adversely
impacted by the Bear Stearns merger. Partially
offsetting the decline in trading revenue were
record results in rates and currencies, credit
trading, commodities and emerging markets, as well
as strong equity client revenue across products and
total gains of $2.0 billion from the widening of
the Firm s credit spread on certain structured
liabilities and derivatives, compared with $1.3
billion in 2007. Private equity results also
declined substantially from the prior year,
swinging to losses of $908 million in 2008 from
gains of $4.3 billion in 2007. In addition, the
first quarter of 2007 included a fair value
adjustment related to the adoption of SFAS 157. For
a further discussion of principal transactions
revenue, see IB and Corporate/Private Equity
segment results on pages 42 44 and 61 63,
respectively, and Note 6 on pages 146 148 of this
Annual Report.

Lending   deposit-related fees rose from the prior
year, predominantly resulting from higher
deposit-related fees and the impact of the
Washington Mutual transaction. For a further
discussion of lending   deposit-related fees, which
are mostly recorded in RFS, TSS and CB, see the RFS
segment results on pages 45 50, the TSS segment
results on pages 56 57, and the CB segment results
on pages 54 55 of this Annual Report.

The decline in asset management, administration and
commissions revenue compared with 2007 was driven
by lower asset management fees in AM due to lower
performance fees and the effect of lower markets on
assets under management. This decline was partially
offset by an increase in commissions revenue related
predominantly to higher brokerage transaction
volume within IB s equity markets revenue, which
included additions from Bear Stearns  Prime
Services business; and higher administration fees
in TSS driven by wider spreads in securities
lending and increased product usage by new and
existing clients. For additional information on
these fees and commissions, see the segment
discussions for IB on pages 42 44, RFS on pages
45 50, TSS on pages 56 57, and AM on pages 58 60
of this Annual Report.

The increase in securities gains compared with the
prior year was due to the repositioning of the
Corporate investment securities portfolio as a
result of lower interest rates as part of managing
the structural interest rate risk of the Firm, and
higher gains from the sale of MasterCard shares.
For a further discussion of securities gains, which
are mostly recorded in the Firm s Corporate
business, see the Corporate/Private Equity segment
discussion on pages 61 63 of this Annual Report.

Mortgage fees and related income increased from the
prior year, driven by higher net mortgage servicing
revenue, which benefited from an improvement in MSR
risk management results and increased loan
servicing revenue. Mortgage production revenue
increased slightly, as the impact of growth in
originations was predominantly

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

offset by markdowns on the mortgage warehouse
and increased reserves related to the repurchase of
previously sold loans. For a discussion of mortgage
fees and related income, which is recorded
primarily in RFS  Consumer Lending business, see
the Consumer Lending discussion on pages 47 50 of
this Annual Report.

Credit card income rose compared with the prior
year, driven by increased interchange income due to
higher customer charge volume in CS and higher
debit card transaction volume in RFS, the impact of
the Washington Mutual transaction, and increased
servicing fees resulting from a higher level of
securitized receivables. These results were
partially offset by increases in volume-driven
payments to partners and expense related to rewards
programs. For a further discussion of credit card
income, see CS  segment results on pages 51 53 of
this Annual Report.

Other income increased compared with the prior
year, due predominantly to the proceeds from the
sale of Visa shares in its initial public offering
of $1.5 billion, the gain on the dissolution of the
Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture of $1.0
billion, and gains on sales of certain other
assets. These proceeds and gains were partially
offset by markdowns on certain investments,
including seed capital in AM; a $464 million charge
related to the offer to repurchase auction-rate
securities at par; losses of $423 million
reflecting the Firm s 49.4% ownership in Bear
Stearns  losses from
April 8 to May 30, 2008; and lower securitization
income at CS.

Net interest income rose from the prior year, due
predominantly to the following: higher
trading-related net interest income in IB, the
impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider
net interest spread in Corporate/Private Equity,
growth in liability and deposit balances in the
wholesale and RFS businesses, higher consumer and
wholesale loan balances, and wider spreads on
consumer loans in RFS. The Firm s total average
interest-earning assets for 2008 were $1.4
trillion, up 23% from the prior year, driven by
higher loans, AFS securities, securities borrowed,
brokerage receivables and other interest-earning
assets balances. The Firm s total average
interest-bearing liabilities for 2008 were $1.3
trillion, up 24% from the prior year, driven by
higher deposits, long-term debt, brokerage payables
and other borrowings balances. The net interest
yield on the Firm s interest-earning assets, on a
fully taxable equivalent basis, was 2.87%, an
increase of 48 basis points from the prior year.

2007 compared with 2006  
Total net revenue of $71.4 billion was up $9.4
billion, or 15%, from the prior year. Higher net
interest income, very strong private equity gains,
record asset management, administration and
commissions revenue, higher mortgage fees and
related income, and record investment banking fees
contributed to the revenue growth. These increases
were offset partially by lower trading revenue.

Investment banking fees grew in 2007 to a level
higher than the previous record set in 2006. Record
advisory and equity underwriting fees drove the
results, partially offset by lower debt
underwriting fees. For a further discussion of
investment banking fees, which are primarily
recorded in IB, see IB segment results on pages
42 44 of this Annual Report.

Principal transactions revenue consists of trading
revenue and private equity gains. Trading revenue
declined significantly from the 2006 level,
primarily due to net markdowns in IB of $1.4
billion on sub-prime positions, including subprime
collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ), and $1.3
billion on leveraged lending funded loans and
unfunded commitments. Also in IB, markdowns of
securitized products related to nonsubprime
mortgages and weak credit trading performance more
than offset record revenue in currencies and strong
revenue in both rates and equities. Equities
benefited from strong client activity and record
trading results across all products. IB s Credit
Portfolio results increased compared with the prior
year, primarily driven by higher revenue from risk
management activities. The increase in private
equity gains from 2006 reflected a significantly
higher level of gains, the classification of
certain private equity carried interest as
compensation expense and a fair value adjustment in
the first quarter of 2007 on nonpublic private
equity investments resulting from the adoption of
SFAS 157 ( Fair Value Measurements ). For a further
discussion of principal transactions revenue, see
IB and Corporate/Private Equity segment results on
pages 42 44 and 61 63, respectively, and Note 6
on pages 146 148 of this Annual Report.

Lending   deposit-related fees rose from the 2006
level, driven primarily by higher deposit-related
fees and the Bank of New York transaction. For a
further discussion of lending   deposit-related
fees, which are mostly recorded in RFS, TSS and CB,
see the RFS segment results on pages 45 50, the
TSS segment results on pages 56 57, and the CB
segment results on pages 54 55 of this Annual
Report.

Asset management, administration and commissions
revenue reached a level higher than the previous
record set in 2006. Increased assets under
management and higher performance and placement
fees in AM drove the record results. The 18% growth
in assets under management from year-end 2006 came
from net asset inflows and market appreciation
across all segments: Institutional, Retail, Private
Bank and Private Wealth Management. TSS also
contributed to the rise in asset management,
administration and commissions revenue, driven by
increased product usage by new and existing clients
and market appreciation on assets under custody.
Finally, commissions revenue increased, due mainly
to higher brokerage transaction volume (primarily
included within Fixed Income and Equity Markets
revenue of IB), which more than offset the sale of
the insurance business by RFS in the third quarter
of 2006 and a charge in the first quarter of 2007
resulting from accelerated surrenders of customer
annuities. For additional information on these fees
and commissions, see the segment discussions for IB
on pages 42 44, RFS on pages 45 50, TSS on pages
56 57, and AM on pages 58 60 of this Annual
Report.

The favorable variance resulting from securities
gains in 2007 compared with securities losses in
2006 was primarily driven by improvements in the
results of repositioning of the Corporate
investment securities portfolio. Also contributing
to the positive variance was a $234 million gain
from the sale of MasterCard shares. For a further
discussion of securities gains (losses), which are
mostly recorded in the Firm s Corporate business,
see the Corporate/Private Equity segment discussion
on pages 61 63 of this Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

Mortgage fees and related income increased from
the prior year as MSRs asset valuation adjustments
and growth in third-party mortgage loans serviced
drove an increase in net mortgage servicing
revenue. Production revenue also grew, as an
increase in mortgage loan originations and the
classification of certain loan origination costs as
expense (loan origination costs previously netted
against revenue commenced being recorded as an
expense in the first quarter of 2007 due to the
adoption of SFAS 159) more than offset markdowns on
the mortgage warehouse and pipeline. For a
discussion of mortgage fees and related
income, which is recorded primarily in RFS 
Consumer Lending business, see the Consumer Lending
discussion on pages 47 50 of this Annual Report.

Credit card income remained relatively unchanged
from the 2006 level, as lower servicing fees earned
in connection with securitization activities, which
were affected unfavorably by higher net credit
losses and narrower loan margins, were offset by
increases in net interchange income earned on the
Firm s credit and debit cards. For further
discussion of credit card income, see CS  segment
results on pages 51 53 of this Annual Report.

Other income declined compared with the prior
year, driven by lower gains from loan sales and
workouts, and the absence of a $103 million gain in
the second quarter of 2006 related to the sale of
MasterCard shares in its initial public
offering. (The 2007 gain on the sale of MasterCard
shares was recorded in securities gains (losses) as
the shares were transferred to the AFS portfolio
subsequent to the IPO.) Increased income from
automobile operating leases and higher gains on the
sale of leveraged leases and student loans
partially offset the decline.

Net interest income rose from the prior
year, primarily due to the following: higher
trading-related net interest income, due to a shift
of Interest expense to principal transactions
revenue (related to certain IB structured notes to
which fair value accounting was elected in
connection with the adoption of SFAS 159); growth in
liability and deposit balances in the wholesale and
consumer businesses; a higher level of credit card
loans; the impact of the Bank of New York
transaction; and an improvement in Corporate s net
interest spread. The Firm s total average
interest-earning assets for 2007 were $1.1
trillion, up 12% from the prior year. The increase
was primarily driven by higher trading assets  
debt instruments, loans, and AFS
securities, partially offset by a decline in
interests in purchased receivables as a result of
the restructuring and deconsolidation during the
second quarter of 2006 of certain multi-seller
conduits that the Firm administered. The net
interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable
equivalent basis, was 2.39%, an increase of 23 basis
points from the prior year, due in part to the
adoption of SFAS 159.

Provision for credit losses 

(a) 
       
     2008 included adjustments to the
provision for credit losses to conform the
Washington Mutual loan loss reserve methodologies
to the Firm s methodologies in connection with
the Washington Mutual transaction. 

(b) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. For additional information on these
transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128 of this Annual Report. 

2008 compared with 2007  
The provision for credit losses in 2008 rose by
$14.1 billion compared with the prior year due to
increases in both the consumer and wholesale
provisions. The increase in the consumer provision
reflected higher estimated losses for home equity
and mortgages resulting from declining housing
prices; an increase in estimated losses for the
auto, student and business banking loan
portfolios; and an increase in the allowance for
loan losses and higher charge-offs of credit card
loans. The increase in the wholesale provision was
driven by a higher allowance resulting from a
weakening credit environment and growth in retained
loans. The wholesale provision in the first quarter
of 2008 also included the effect of the transfer of
$4.9 billion of funded and unfunded leveraged
lending commitments to retained loans from
held-for-sale. In addition, in 2008 both the consumer
and wholesale provisions were affected by a $1.5
billion charge to conform assets acquired from
Washington Mutual to the Firm s loan loss
methodologies. For a more detailed discussion of the
loan portfolio and the allowance for loan
losses, see the segment discussions for RFS on pages
45 50, CS on pages 51 53, IB on pages 42 44 and
CB on pages 54 55, and the Credit Risk Management
section on pages 80 99 of this Annual Report.

2007 compared with 2006  
The provision for credit losses in 2007 rose $3.6
billion from the prior year due to increases in
both the consumer and wholesale provisions. The
increase in the consumer provision from the prior
year was largely due
to an increase in estimated losses related to home
equity, credit card and subprime mortgage
loans. Credit card net charge-offs in 2006 benefited
following the change in bankruptcy legislation in
the fourth quarter of 2005. The increase in the
wholesale provision from the prior year primarily
reflected an increase in the allowance for

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

credit losses due to portfolio activity, which
included the effect of a weakening credit
environment and portfolio growth. For a more
detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the
allowance for loan losses, see the segment
discussions for RFS on pages 45 50, CS on pages
51 53, IB on pages 42 44, CB on pages 54 55 and
Credit Risk Management on pages 80 99 of this
Annual Report.

Noninterest expense 

(a) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. For additional information on these
transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128 of this Annual Report. 

2008 compared with 2007  
Total noninterest expense for 2008 was $43.5
billion, up $1.8 billion, or 4%, from the prior
year. The increase was driven by the additional
operating costs related to the Washington Mutual
transaction and Bear Stearns merger, and investments
in the businesses, partially offset by lower
performance-based incentives.

Compensation expense increased slightly from the
prior year predominantly driven by investments in
the businesses, including headcount additions
associated with the Bear Stearns merger and
Washington Mutual transaction, largely offset by
lower performance-based incentives.

Noncompensation expense increased from the prior
year as a result of the Bear Stearns merger and
Washington Mutual transaction. Excluding the effect
of these transactions, noncompensation expense
decreased due to a net reduction in other expense
related to litigation; lower credit card and
consumer lending marketing expense; and a decrease
in the amortization of intangibles as certain
purchased credit card relationships were fully
amortized in 2007 and the amortization rate for
core deposit intangibles declined in accordance
with the amortization schedule. These decreases were
offset partially by increases in professional   outside services, driven by investments in new
product platforms in TSS, business and volume growth
in CS credit card processing and IB
brokerage, clearing and exchange transaction
processing. Also contributing to the increases were
an increase in other expense due to higher mortgage
reinsurance losses and mortgage servicing expense
due to increased delinquencies and

defaults in RFS; an increase in technology, communications and equipment expense
reflecting higher depreciation expense on owned
automobiles subject to operating leases in RFS, and
other technology-related investments across the
businesses; and, an increase in occupancy expense
partly for the expansion of RFS  retail
distribution network. For a further discussion of
amortization of intangibles, refer to Note 18 on
pages 186 189 of this Annual Report.

For information on merger costs, refer to Note 11
on page 158 of this Annual Report.

2007 compared with 2006  
Total noninterest expense for 2007 was $41.7
billion, up $2.9 billion, or 7%, from the prior
year. The increase was driven by higher
compensation expense, as well as investments
across the business segments and acquisitions.

The increase in compensation expense from 2006 was
primarily the result of investments and
acquisitions in the businesses, including
additional headcount from the Bank of New York
transaction; the classification of certain private
equity carried interest from principal
transactions revenue; the classification of certain
loan origination costs (loan origination costs
previously netted against revenue commenced being
recorded as an expense in the first quarter of
2007 due to the adoption of SFAS 159); and higher
performance-based incentives. Partially offsetting
these increases were business divestitures and
continuing business efficiencies.

Noncompensation expense increased from 2006 due to
higher professional   outside services primarily
reflecting higher brokerage expense and credit card
processing costs resulting from growth in
transaction volume, as well as investments in the
businesses and acquisitions. Also contributing to
the increase was higher other expense due to
increased net legal-related costs, reflecting a
lower level of insurance recoveries and increased
costs of credit card-related litigation, and other increases
driven by business growth and investments in the
businesses. Other noncompensation expense increases
also included higher occupancy expense driven by
ongoing investments in the businesses, in
particular, the retail distribution network and the
Bank of New York transaction; and higher technology,
 communications and equipment expense due primarily
to higher depreciation expense on owned automobiles
subject to operating leases in RFS, and other
technology-related investments in the businesses to
support business growth. These increases were offset
partially by lower credit card marketing
expense; decreases due to the sale of the insurance
business at the beginning of the third quarter of
2006 and lower credit card fraud-related
losses, both in other expense. In addition, expense in
general was reduced by the effect of continuing
business efficiencies. For a discussion of
amortization of intangibles, refer to Note 18 on
pages 186 189 of this Annual Report.

For information on merger costs, refer to Note 11
on page 158 of this Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

Income tax expense 

The Firm s income from continuing operations
before income tax expense (benefit), income tax
expense (benefit)  and effective tax rate were as
follows for each of the periods indicated.

(a) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase
acquired the banking operations of Washington
Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear Stearns merger was
consummated. Each of these
transactions was accounted for as a purchase and
their respective results of operations are included
in the Firm s results from each respective
transaction date. For additional information on
these transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123 128 of
this Annual Report. 

2008 compared with 2007  
The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2008
compared with the prior year was the result of
significantly lower reported pretax income combined
with changes in the proportion of income subject to
U.S. federal taxes. Also contributing to the decrease
in the effective tax rate was increased business
tax credits and the realization of a $1.1 billion
benefit from the release of deferred tax
liabilities. These deferred tax liabilities were
associated with the undistributed earnings of
certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were deemed to be
reinvested indefinitely. These decreases were
partially offset by
changes in state and local taxes, and equity losses
representing the Firm s 49.4% ownership interest in
Bear Stearns  losses from April 8 to May
30, 2008, for which no income tax benefit was
recorded. For a further discussion of income
taxes, see Critical Accounting Estimates used by the
Firm on pages 107 111 and Note 28 on pages
197 199 of this Annual Report.

2007 compared with 2006  
The increase in the effective tax rate for 2007, as compared with the prior year, was primarily the
result of higher reported pretax income combined
with changes in the proportion of income subject to
federal, state and local taxes. Also contributing to
the increase in the effective tax rate was the
recognition in 2006 of $367 million of benefits
related to the resolution of tax audits.

Income from discontinued operations 

As a
result of the transaction with The Bank of
New York on October 1, 2006, the results of
operations of the selected corporate trust
businesses (i.e., trustee, paying agent, loan agency
and document management services) were reported as
discontinued operations.

Income from discontinued operations in 2006 was due
predominantly to a gain of $622 million from
exiting selected corporate trust businesses in the
fourth quarter of 2006. No income from discontinued
operations was recorded in 2008 or 2007.

Extraordinary gain 

The Firm recorded an extraordinary gain of $1.9
billion in 2008 associated with the acquisition of
the banking operations of Washington Mutual. The
transaction is being accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting in accordance with
SFAS 141. The adjusted fair value of net assets of
the banking operations, after purchase accounting
adjustments, was higher than JPMorgan Chase s purchase price. There were no extraordinary gains
recorded in 2007 or 2006.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

EXPLANATION AND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

The Firm prepares its consolidated financial
statements using accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America
( U.S. GAAP  these financial statements appear on
pages 118 216 of this Annual Report. That
presentation, which is referred to as  reported
basis,  provides the reader with an
understanding of the Firm s results that can be
tracked consistently from year to year and enables
a comparison of the Firm s performance with other
companies  U.S. GAAP financial statements.

In addition to analyzing the Firm s results on a
reported basis, management reviews the Firm s
results and the results of the lines of business on
a  managed  basis, which is a non-GAAP financial
measure. The Firm s definition of managed basis
starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and
includes certain reclassifications that assume
credit card loans securitized by CS remain on the
balance

sheet and presents revenue on a fully
taxable-equivalent ( FTE ) basis. These
adjustments do not have any impact on net income
as reported by the lines of business or by the
Firm as a whole.

The presentation of CS results on a managed basis
assumes that credit card loans that have been
securitized and sold in accordance with SFAS 140
remain on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and that
the earnings on the securitized loans are
classified in the same manner as the earnings on
retained loans recorded on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of managed
basis to evaluate the credit performance and
overall financial performance of the entire managed
credit card portfolio. Operations are funded and
decisions are made about allocating resources, such
as employees and capital, based upon managed
financial information. In addition, the same
underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring

The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm s reported U.S. GAAP
results to managed basis. 

 (Table continues on next page)

(a) 
       
     2008 included an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related
to the acquisition of Washington Mutual s banking operations. 

(b) 
       
     Based on income from continuing operations. 

(c) 
       
     Credit card securitizations affect CS. See pages 51 53 of this Annual Report for further
information. 

Table of Contents   

are used for both loans on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets and securitized loans. Although
securitizations result in the sale of credit card
receivables to a trust, JPMorgan Chase retains the
ongoing customer relationships, as the customers may
continue to use their credit cards; accordingly, the
customer s credit performance will affect both the
securitized loans and the loans retained on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. JPMorgan Chase believes
managed basis information is useful to
investors, enabling them to understand both the
credit risks associated with the loans reported on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Firm s
retained interests in securitized loans. For a
reconciliation of reported to managed basis results
for CS, see CS segment results on pages 51 53 of
this Annual Report. For information regarding the
securitization process, and loans and residual
interests sold and securitized, see Note 16 on pages
168 176 of this Annual Report.

Total net revenue for each of the business segments
and the Firm is presented on a FTE
basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt
securities and investments that receive tax credits
is presented in the managed results on a basis
comparable to taxable securities and
investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows
management to assess the comparability of revenue
arising from both taxable and tax-exempt
sources. The corresponding income tax impact related
to these items is recorded within income tax
expense.

Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial
measures at the business segment level because it
believes these other non-GAAP financial measures
provide information to investors about the
underlying operational performance and trends of
the particular business segment and therefore
facilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of its
competitors.

(Table continued from previous page)

Calculation of certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP metrics 

The table below reflects the formulas used to
calculate both the following U.S. GAAP and
non-GAAP measures:

Return on common equity 

Net income*/ Average common stockholders  equity

Return on common equity less goodwill  (d) 

Net income*/ Average common stockholders  equity less goodwill

Return on assets 

Reported: Net income / Total average assets

Managed:  Net income / Total average managed
assets (e)   
(including average
securitized credit card receivables)

Overhead ratio 

Total noninterest expense / Total net revenue

*  Represents net income applicable to common stock 

(d) 
       
     The Firm uses return on common equity
less goodwill, a  non-GAAP financial measure, to
evaluate the operating performance of the Firm
and to facilitate comparisons to competitors. 

(e) 
       
     The Firm uses return on managed assets, a
non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the
overall performance of the managed credit card
portfolio, including securitized credit card
loans. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS

The Firm is managed on a line-of-business
basis. The business segment financial results
presented reflect the current organization of
JPMorgan Chase. There are six major reportable
business segments: the Investment Bank, Retail
Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial
Banking, Treasury   Securities Services and Asset
Management, as well as a Corporate/Private Equity
segment.

The business segments are determined based upon the
products and services provided, or the type of
customer served, and they reflect the manner in
which financial information is currently evaluated
by management. Results of these lines of business
are presented on a managed basis.

Business segment changes  
Commencing October 1, 2008,RFS was reorganized into
the following two reporting segments: Retail
Banking and Consumer Lending. Previously, RFS
consisted of three reporting segments: Regional
Banking, Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance. The new
Retail Banking reporting segment now comprises
consumer banking and business banking activities,
which previously were reported in Regional Banking.
The new Consumer Lending reporting segment now
comprises: (a) the prior Mortgage Banking and Auto
Finance reporting segments,(b) the home equity,
student and other lending business activities which
were previously reported in the Regional Banking
reporting segment and (c) loan activity related to
prime mortgages that were originated by RFS, but
reported in the Corporate/Private Equity business
segment. This reorganization is reflected in this
Annual Report and the financial information for
prior periods has been revised to reflect the
changes as if they had been in effect throughout
all periods reported.

Description of business segment reporting methodology  
Results of the business segments are intended to
reflect each segment as if it were essentially a
stand-alone business. The management reporting
process that derives business segment results
allocates income and expense using market-based
methodologies.

Business segment reporting methodologies used by
the Firm are discussed below. The Firm continues to
assess the assumptions, methodologies and reporting
classifications used for segment reporting, and
further refinements may be implemented in future
periods.

Revenue sharing  
When business segments join efforts to sell
products and services to the Firm s clients, the
participating business segments agree to share
revenue from those transactions. The segment
results reflect these revenue-sharing agreements.

Funds transfer pricing  
Funds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest
income and expense to each business and transfer
the primary interest rate risk exposures to the
Treasury group within the Corporate/Private Equity
business segment. The allocation process is unique
to each business segment and considers the interest
rate risk, liquidity risk and regulatory
requirements of that segment s stand-alone peers.
This process is overseen by the Firm s
Asset-Liability Committee ( ALCO ). Business
segments may retain certain interest rate
exposures, subject to management approval, that
would be expected in the normal operation of a
similar peer business.

Table of Contents   

Capital allocation  
Each business segment is allocated capital by
taking into consideration stand-alone peer
comparisons, economic risk measures and regulatory
capital requirements. The amount of capital
assigned to each business is referred to as equity.
Line of business equity increased during the second
quarter of 2008 in IB and AM due to the Bear
Stearns merger and, for AM, the purchase of the
additional equity interest in Highbridge. At the
end of the third quarter of 2008, equity was
increased for each line of business with a view
toward the future implementation of the new Basel
II capital rules. For further details on these
rules, see Basel II on page 72 of this Annual
Report. In addition, equity allocated to RFS,CS and
CB was increased as a result of the Washington
Mutual transaction. For a further discussion, see
Capital management Line of business equity on page
70 of this Annual Report.

Expense allocation  
Where business segments use services provided by
support units within the Firm, the costs of those
support units are allocated to the business
segments. The expense is allocated based upon
their actual cost or the lower of actual cost or
market, as well as upon usage of the services
provided. In contrast, certain other expense
related to certain corporate functions, or to
certain technology and operations, are not
allocated to the business segments and are
retained in Corporate. Retained expense includes:
parent company costs that would not be incurred if
the segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to align certain corporate
staff, technology and operations allocations with
market prices; and other one-time items not
aligned with the business segments.

Segment results   Managed basis  (a)(b)  
The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated.

(a) 
       
     Represents reported results on a tax-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of credit
card securitizations. 

(b) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On
May 30, 2008, the Bear Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was accounted for
as a purchase and their respective results of operations are included in the Firm s results from
each respective transaction date. For additional information on these transactions, see Note 2 on
pages 123-128 of this Annual Report. 

(c) 
       
     Net income included an extraordinary gain of $1.9 billion related to the Washington Mutual
transaction for 2008 and income from discontinued operations of $795 million for 2006. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

INVESTMENT BANK

J.P. Morgan is one of the world s leading
investment banks, with deep client relationships
and broad product capabilities. The Investment
Bank s clients are corporations, financial
institutions, governments and institutional
investors. The Firm offers a full range of
investment banking products and services in all
major capital markets, including advising on
corporate strategy and structure, capital
raising in equity and debt markets,
sophisticated risk management, market-making in
cash securities and derivative instruments,
prime brokerage and research. IB also selectively commits the
Firm s own capital to principal investing and
trading activities. 

On
May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase merged with The Bear Stearns
Companies, Inc. The merger provided IB with a leading global prime
brokerage business and expanded the existing energy platform. It also
strengthened IB's franchise in Equity and Fixed Income Markets, as well
as client coverage.

Selected income statement data 

(a) 
       
     The 2008 results include net markdowns on
mortgage-related exposures and leveraged lending
funded and unfunded commitments of $5.9 billion
and $4.7 billion, respectively, compared with $1.4
billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, in 2007. 

(b) 
       
     All other income for 2008 decreased from the
prior year due to increased revenue sharing
agreements with other business segments. All other
income for 2007 decreased from the prior year due
mainly to losses on loan sales and lower gains on
sales of assets. 

(c) 
       
     Net interest income for 2008 increased from the
prior year due to an increase in interest-earning
assets, including the addition of the Bear Stearns 
Prime Services business combined with wider spreads
on certain fixed income products. The increase in
2007 from the prior year was due primarily to an
increase in interest-earning assets. 

(d) 
       
     Total net
revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments,
predominantly due to income tax credits related to
affordable housing investments and tax-exempt
income from municipal bond investments of $1.7 billion, $927 million and $802 million for 2008,
2007 and 2006,respectively. 

(e) 
       
     TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related
to certain exposures managed within IB credit
portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS. 

(f) 
       
     The income tax benefit in 2008 includes the
result of reduced deferred tax liabilities on
overseas earnings. 

(g) 
       
     Results for 2008 include seven months of the
combined Firm s (JPMorgan Chase s and Bear
Stearns ) results and five months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results. All prior periods reflect
heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 

The following table provides IB s total net revenue by business segment.

(a) 
       
     Fixed income markets include client and
portfolio management revenue related to both
market-making and proprietary risk-taking across
global fixed income markets, including foreign
exchange, interest rate, credit and commodities
markets. 

(b) 
       
     Equities markets include client and portfolio
management revenue related to market-making and
proprietary risk-taking across global equity
products, including cash instruments, derivatives
and convertibles. 

(c) 
       
     Credit portfolio revenue includes net interest
income, fees and the impact of loan sales activity,
as well as gains or losses on securities received
as part of a loan restructuring, for IB s credit
portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes
the results of risk management related to the
Firm s lending and derivative activities, and
changes in the credit valuation adjustment, which
is the component of the fair value of a derivative
that reflects the credit quality of the
counterparty. Additionally, credit portfolio
revenue incorporates an adjustment to the valuation
of the Firm s derivative liabilities as a result of
the adoption of SFAS 157 on January 1, 2007. See
pages 80 99 of the Credit Risk Management section
of this Annual Report for further discussion. 

(d) 
       
     Results for 2008 include seven months of the
combined Firm s (JPMorgan Chase s and Bear
Stearns ) results and five months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results. All prior periods reflect
heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 

2008 compared with 2007  
Net loss was $1.2 billion, a decrease of $4.3
billion from the prior year, driven by lower total
net revenue, a higher provision for credit losses
and higher noninterest expense, partially offset by
a reduction in deferred tax liabilities on overseas
earnings.

Total net revenue was $12.2 billion, down $6.0
billion, or 33%, from the prior year. Investment
banking fees were $5.9 billion, down 11% from the
prior year, driven by lower debt underwriting and
advisory fees reflecting reduced market activity.
Debt underwriting fees were $2.2 billion, down 18%
from the prior year, driven by lower loan
syndication and bond underwriting fees. Advisory
fees of $2.0 billion declined 12% from the prior
year. Equity underwriting fees were $1.7 billion,
up 2%
from the prior year driven by improved market
share. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $2.0
billion, compared with $6.3 billion in the prior
year. The decrease was driven by $5.9

Table of Contents   

billion of net markdowns on mortgage-related
exposures and $4.7 billion of net markdowns on
leveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments.
Revenue was also adversely impacted by additional
losses and cost to risk reduce related to Bear
Stearns  positions. These results were offset by
record performance in rates and currencies, credit
trading, commodities and emerging markets as well
as $814 million of gains from the widening of the
Firm s credit spread on certain structured
liabilities and derivatives. Equity Markets revenue
was $3.6 billion, down 7% from the prior year,
reflecting weak trading results, partially offset
by strong client revenue across products including
prime services, as well as $510 million of gains
from the widening of the Firm s credit spread on
certain structured liabilities and derivatives.
Credit portfolio revenue was $739 million, down
44%, driven by losses from widening counterparty
credit spreads.

The provision for credit
losses was $2.0 billion,
an increase of $1.4 billion from the prior year,
predominantly reflecting a higher allowance for
credit losses, driven by a weakening credit
environment, as well as the effect of the transfer
of $4.9 billion of funded and unfunded leveraged
lending commitments to retained loans from
held-for-sale in the first quarter of 2008. Net
charge-offs for the year were $105 million,
compared with $36 million in the prior year. Total
nonperforming assets were $2.5 billion, an increase
of $2.0 billion compared with the prior year,
reflecting a weakening credit environment. The
allowance for loan losses to average loans was
4.71% for 2008, compared with a ratio of 2.14% in
the prior year.

Noninterest expense was $13.8 billion, up $770
million, or 6%,from the prior year, reflecting
higher noncompensation expense driven primarily by
additional expense relating to the Bear Stearns
merger, off-set partially by lower
performance-based compensation expense.

Return on equity was a negative 5% on $26.1 billion
of average allocated capital, compared with 15% on
$21.0 billion in the prior year.

2007 compared with 2006  
Net income was $3.1 billion, a decrease of $535
million, or 15%, from the prior year. The decrease
reflected lower fixed income revenue, a higher
provision for credit losses and increased
noninterest expense, partially offset by record
investment banking fees and equity markets revenue.

Total net revenue was $18.2 billion, down $663
million, or 4%,from the prior year. Investment
banking fees were $6.6 billion, up 19% from the
prior year, driven by record
fees across advisory and equity underwriting,
partially offset by lower debt underwriting fees.
Advisory fees were $2.3 billion, up 37%, and equity
underwriting fees were $1.7 billion, up 45%; both
were driven by record performance across all
regions. Debt underwriting fees of $2.6 billion
declined 3%, reflecting lower loan syndication and
bond underwriting fees, which were negatively
affected by market conditions in the second half of
the year. Fixed Income Markets revenue decreased
27% from the prior year. The decrease was due to
net markdowns of $1.4 billion on subprime
positions, including subprime CDOs and net
markdowns of $1.3 billion on leveraged lending
funded loans and unfunded commitments. Fixed Income
Markets revenue also decreased due to markdowns in
securitized products on nonsubprime mortgages and
weak credit trading performance. These lower

results were offset partially by record revenue in
currencies and strong revenue in rates. Equity
Markets revenue was $3.9 billion, up 13%, benefiting
from strong client activity and record trading
results across all products. Credit Portfolio
revenue was $1.3 billion, up 19%, primarily due to
higher revenue from risk management activities,
partially offset by lower gains from loan sales and
workouts.

The provision for credit losses was $654 million,
an increase of $463 million from the prior year.
The change was due to a net increase of $532
million in the allowance for credit losses,
primarily due to portfolio activity, which included
the effect of a weakening credit environment, and
an increase in allowance for unfunded leveraged
lending commitments, as well as portfolio growth.
In addition, there were $36 million of net
charge-offs in 2007, compared with $31 million of
net recoveries in the prior year. The allowance for
loan losses to average loans was 2.14% for
2007, compared with a ratio of 1.79% in the prior
year.

Noninterest expense was $13.1 billion, up $214
million, or 2%, from the prior year.

Return on equity was 15% on $21.0 billion of
allocated capital compared with 18% on $20.8
billion in 2006.

Selected metrics 

(a) 
       
     As a result of the adoption of SFAS 159 in
the first quarter of 2007, $11.7 billion of loans
were reclassified to trading assets. Loans
held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded
when calculating the allowance coverage ratio and
net charge-off (recovery) rate. 

(b) 
       
     Loans retained included credit portfolio
loans, leveraged leases and other accrual loans,
and excluded loans at fair value. 

(c) 
       
     Adjusted assets, a non-GAAP financial measure,
equals total assets minus (1) securities purchased
under resale agreements and securities borrowed
less securities sold, not yet purchased; (2) assets
of variable interest entities ( VIEs ) consolidated
under FIN 46R; (3) cash and securities segregated
and on deposit for regulatory and other
purposes; (4) goodwill and intangibles; (5)
securities received as collateral; and (6)
investments purchased under the Asset-Backed
Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity
Facility. The amount of adjusted assets is
presented to assist the reader in comparing IB s
asset and capital levels to other investment banks
in the securities industry. Asset-to-equity
leverage ratios are commonly used as one measure to
assess a company s capital adequacy. IB believes an
adjusted asset amount that excludes the assets
discussed above, which were considered to have a
low risk profile, provides a more meaningful
measure of balance sheet leverage in the securities
industry. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Selected metrics 

(a) 
       
     Nonperforming loans included loans
held-for-sale and loans at fair value of $32
million, $50 million and $3 million at December
31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which were
excluded from the allowance coverage ratios.
Nonperforming loans at December 31, 2006, excluded
distressed loans held-for-sale that were purchased
as part of IB s proprietary activities. As a result
of the adoption of SFAS 159 in the first quarter of
2007, these loans were reclassified to trading
assets. 

(b) 
       
     As a result of the adoption of SFAS 159 in the
first quarter of 2007, $11.7 billion of loans were
reclassified to trading assets. 

(c) 
       
     Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value
were excluded when calculating the allowance
coverage ratio and net charge-off (recovery)
rate. 

(d) 
       
     Results for 2008 include seven months of the
combined Firm s (JPMorgan Chase s and Bear
Stearns ) results and five months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results. All prior periods reflect
heritage JPMorgan Chase results. For a more
complete description of value-at-risk ( VaR ), see
pages 100 103 of this Annual Report. 

(e) 
       
     Average VaRs were less than the sum of the VaRs
of their market risk components, which was due to
risk offsets resulting from portfolio
diversification. The diversification effect
reflected the fact that the risks were not
perfectly correlated. The risk of a portfolio of
positions is usually less than the sum of the risks
of the positions themselves. 

(f) 
       
     Trading VaR
includes predominantly all trading activities in
IB; however, particular risk parameters of certain
products are not fully captured, for example,
correlation risk. Trading VaR does not include VaR related to
held-for-sale funded loans and unfunded
commitments, nor the debit valuation adjustments
( DVA ) taken on derivative and structured
liabilities to reflect the credit quality of the
Firm. See the DVA Sensitivity table on page 103
of this Annual Report for further details.
Trading VaR also does not include the MSR
portfolio or VaR related to other corporate
functions, such as Corporate/Private Equity.
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, trading
VaR includes the estimated credit spread
sensitivity of certain mortgage products. 

(g) 
       
     Included VaR on derivative credit valuation
adjustments ( CVA ), hedges of the CVA and
mark-to-market hedges of the retained loan
portfolio, which were all reported in principal
transactions revenue. This VaR does not include the
retained loan portfolio. 

(h) 
       
     Excluding the impact
of a loan originated in March 2008 to Bear Stearns,
the adjusted ratio would be 4.84% for 2008. The
average balance of the loan extended to Bear
Stearns was $1.9 billion for 2008. The allowance for
loan losses to period-end loans was 4.83% and 1.92%
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Market shares and rankings  (a) 

(a) 
       
     Source: Thomson Reuters. The results for 2008 are pro forma for the Bear Stearns
merger. The results for 2007 and 2006 represent heritage JPMorgan Chase only. 

(b) 
       
     Includes asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and municipal securities. 

(c) 
       
     Includes rights offerings; U.S. domiciled equity and equity-related transactions. 

(d) 
       
     Global announced M A is based upon rank value; all other rankings are based
upon proceeds, with full credit to each book manager/equal if joint. Because of joint
assignments, market share of all participants will add up to more than 100%.
Global and U.S. announced M A market share and rankings for 2007 and 2006
include transactions withdrawn since December 31, 2007 and 2006. U.S.
announced M A represents any U.S. involvement ranking. 

According to Thomson Reuters, in 2008, the Firm
improved its positions to #1 in Global Debt,
Equity and Equity-related transactions and Global
Equity and Equity-related transactions; and
improved its position to #2 in Global Long-term
Debt and Global Announced M A. The Firm maintained
its #1 position in Global Syndicated Loans.

According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #1
in Investment Banking fees generated during
2008, based upon revenue.

Table of Contents   

RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES

Retail Financial Services, which includes
the Retail Banking and Consumer Lending
reporting segments, serves consumers and
businesses through multiple channels.
Customers can use more than 5,400 bank branches
(third-largest nationally),14,500 ATMs
(second-largest nationally) as well as online
and mobile banking. More than 21,400 branch
salespeople assist customers with checking and
savings accounts, mortgages, home equity and
business loans,and investments across the
23-state footprint from New York and Florida to
California. Consumers also can obtain loans
through more than 16,000 auto dealerships and
4,800 schools and universities nationwide. 

On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the
banking operations of Washington Mutual from the
FDIC for $1.9 billion through a purchase of
substantially all of the assets and assumption of
specified liabilities of Washington Mutual.
Washington Mutual s banking operations consisted
of a retail bank network of 2,244 branches, a
nationwide credit card lending business, a
multi-family and commercial real estate lending
business, and nationwide mortgage banking
activities. The transaction expanded the Firm s
U.S. consumer branch network in California,
Florida, Washington,
Georgia, Idaho, Nevada and Oregon and created the
nation s third-largest branch network.

During the first quarter of 2006, RFS completed the
purchase of Collegiate Funding Services, which
contributed a student loan servicing capability and
provided an entry into the Federal Family Education
Loan Program consolidation market. On July
1, 2006, RFS sold its life insurance and annuity
underwriting businesses to Protective Life
Corporation. On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase
completed the Bank of New York transaction,
significantly strengthening RFS  distribution
network in the New York tri-state area.

Selected income statement data 

(a) 
       
     The Firm adopted SFAS 159 in the first quarter of 2007. As a result, beginning in
the first quarter of 2007, certain loan-origination costs have been classified as
expense. 

(b) 
       
     Retail Financial Services uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization of core
deposit intangibles ( CDI )), a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the underlying expense trends of the business. Including CDI amortization expense in the
overhead ratio calculation results in a higher overhead ratio in the earlier years and
a lower overhead ratio in later years; this method would result in an improving
overhead ratio over time, all things remaining equal. This non-GAAP ratio excludes
Retail Baking s core deposit intangible amortization expense related to the Bank of
New York transaction and the Bank One merger of $394 million, $460 million and
$458 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

2008 compared with 2007  
Net income was $880 million, a decrease of $2.0 billion, or 70%, from the prior year, as a significant increase in
the provision for credit losses was partially offset by positive MSR risk management results and
the positive impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.

Total net revenue was $23.5 billion,
an increase of $6.2 billion, or 36%, from the prior year. Net
interest income was $14.2 billion, up $3.6 billion, or 35%, benefiting from the Washington Mutual
transaction, wider loan and deposit spreads, and higher loan and deposit balances. Noninterest
revenue was $9.4 billion, up $2.6 billion, or 38%, as positive MSR risk management results, the
impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage origination volume and higher
deposit-related fees were partially offset by an increase in reserves related to the repurchase of
previously sold loans and markdowns on the mortgage warehouse.

The provision for credit losses was $9.9 billion, an increase of $7.3 billion from the prior year.
Delinquency rates have increased due to overall weak economic conditions, while housing price
declines have continued to drive increased loss severities, particularly for high loan-to-value
home equity and mortgage loans. The provision includes $4.7 billion in additions to the allowance
for loan losses for the heritage Chase home equity and mortgage portfolios. Home equity net
charge-offs were $2.4 billion (2.23% net charge-off rate; 2.39% excluding purchased credit-impaired
loans), compared with $564 million (0.62% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Subprime
mortgage net charge-offs were $933 million (5.49% net charge-off rate; 6.10% excluding purchased
credit-impaired loans),compared with $157 million (1.55% net charge-off rate) in the prior year.
Prime mortgage net charge-offs were $526 million (1.05% net charge-off rate; 1.18% excluding
purchased credit-impaired loans), compared with $33 million (0.13% net charge-off rate) in the prior
year. The provision for credit losses was also affected by an increase in estimated losses for the
auto, student and business banking loan portfolios.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Total noninterest expense was $12.1 billion, an
increase of $2.2 billion, or 22%, from the prior
year, reflecting the impact of the Washington
Mutual transaction, higher mortgage reinsurance
losses, higher mortgage servicing expense and
investments in the retail distribution network.

2007 compared with 2006  
Net income was $2.9 billion, a decrease of $288
million, or 9%, from the prior year, as a decline
in Consumer Lending was offset partially by
improved results in Retail Banking.

Total net revenue was $17.3 billion, an increase of
$2.5 billion, or 17%, from the prior year. Net
interest income was $10.5 billion, up $361 million,
or 4%, due to the Bank of New York transaction,
wider loan spreads and higher deposit balances.
These benefits were offset partially by the sale of
the insurance business and a shift to
narrower spread deposit products. Noninterest
revenue was $6.8 billion, up $2.1 billion,
benefiting from positive MSR risk management
results; an increase in deposit-related fees; and
the absence of a prior-year $233 million loss
related to $13.3 billion of mortgage loans
transferred to held-for-sale. Noninterest revenue
also benefited from the classification of certain
mortgage loan origination costs as expense (loan
origination costs previously netted against revenue
commenced being recorded as an expense in the first
quarter of 2007 due to the adoption of SFAS 159).

The provision for credit losses was $2.6 billion,
compared with $561 million in the prior year. The
current year provision includes a net increase of
$1.0 billion in the allowance for loan losses
related to home equity loans as continued weak
housing prices have resulted in an increase in
estimated losses for high loan-to-value loans. Home
equity net charge-offs were $564 million (0.62% net
charge-off rate), compared with $143 million (0.18%
net charge-off rate) in the prior year. In
addition, the current-year provision includes a
$166 million increase in the allowance for loan
losses related to subprime mortgage loans,
reflecting an increase in estimated losses and
growth in the portfolio. Subprime mortgage net
charge-offs were $157 million (1.55% net charge-off
rate),compared with $47 million (0.34% net
charge-off rate) in the prior year.

Total noninterest expense was $9.9 billion, an
increase of $978 million, or 11%, from the prior
year due to the Bank of New York transaction; the
classification of certain loan origination costs as
expense due to the adoption of SFAS 159;
investments in the retail distribution network; and
higher mortgage production and servicing expense.
These increases were offset partially by the sale
of the insurance business.

Selected metrics 

(a) 
       
     Loans included prime mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell, which, for
new originations on or after January 1, 2007, were accounted for at fair value under
SFAS 159. These loans, classified as trading assets on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets, totaled $8.0 billion and $12.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Average loans included prime mortgage loans, classified as trading
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, of $14.2 billion and $11.9 billion for the
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(b) 
       
     Excludes purchased credit-impaired loans accounted for
under SOP 03-3 that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction.
These loans were accounted for on a pool basis and the pools are considered to be
performing under SOP 03-3. 

(c) 
       
     Nonperforming loans and assets included loans held-for-sale and loans accounted
for at fair value of $236 million, $69 million and $116 million at December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Certain of these loans are classified as trading
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

(d) 
       
     Nonperforming loans and assets excluded (1) loans eligible for repurchase as well
as loans repurchased from Governmental National Mortgage Association ( GNMA )
pools that are insured by U.S. government agencies of $3.3 billion, $1.5 billion and
$1.2 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and (2) student
loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $437 million,
$417 million and $387 million at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
These amounts were excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 

Table of Contents   

(e) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the policy for classifying subprime mortgage
and home equity loans as nonperforming was changed to conform to all other
home lending products. Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect
this change. Amounts for 2006 have not been revised as the impact
was not material. 

(f) 
       
     Loans held-for-sale and loans accounted for at fair value were excluded when calculating the allowance coverage ratio and the net charge-off rate. 

(g) 
       
     Excludes the impact of purchased credit-impaired loans accounted for under SOP
03-3 that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction at December
31, 2008. These loans were accounted for at fair value on the acquisition date,
which included the impact of credit losses over the remaining life of the portfolio.
Accordingly, no allowance for loan losses has been recorded for these loans. 

Retail Banking 

Selected income statement data 

(a) 
       
     Retail Banking uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization of core deposit
intangibles ( CDI )), a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the underlying
expense trends of the business. Including CDI amortization expense in the overhead
ratio calculation results in a higher overhead ratio in the earlier years and a lower
overhead ratio in later years; this method would result in an improving overhead
ratio over time, all things remaining equal. This ratio excludes Retail Baking s core
deposit intangible amortization expense related to the Bank of New York transaction and the Bank One merger of $394 million, $460 million and $458 million for
the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

2008 compared with 2007  
Retail Banking net income was $3.0 billion, up $737
million, or 33%, from the prior year. Total net
revenue was $12.6 billion, up $2.7 billion, or 27%,
reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual
transaction, wider deposit spreads, higher
deposit-related fees, and higher deposit balances.
The provision for credit losses was $449 million,
compared with $79 million in the prior year,
reflecting an increase in the allowance for loan
losses for Business Banking loans due to higher
estimated losses on the portfolio. Noninterest
expense was $7.2 billion, up $1.1 billion, or 17%,
from the prior year, due to the Washington Mutual
transaction and investments in the retail
distribution network.

2007 compared with 2006  
Retail Banking net income was $2.2 billion, an
increase of $323 million, or 17%, from the prior
year. Total net revenue was $10.0 billion, up $1.0
billion, or 11%, benefiting from the following: the
Bank of New York
transaction; increased deposit-related fees; and
growth in deposits. These benefits were offset
partially by a shift to narrower-spread deposit
products. The provision for credit losses was $79
million, compared with $114 million in the prior
year. Noninterest expense was $6.2 billion, up $499
million, or 9%, from the prior year, driven by the
Bank of New York transaction and investments in the
retail distribution network.

Selected metrics 

(a) 
       
     Employees acquired as part of the Bank of
New York transaction are included beginning in
2007. 

Consumer Lending 

Selected income statement data 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

2008 compared with 2007  
Consumer Lending net loss was $2.1 billion,
compared with net income of $680 million in the
prior year. Total net revenue was $10.9 billion, up
$3.6 billion, or 48%, driven by higher mortgage
fees and related income (due primarily to positive
MSR risk management results), the impact of the
Washington Mutual transaction, higher loan balances
and wider loan spreads.

The increase in mortgage fees and related income
was primarily driven by higher net mortgage
servicing revenue. Mortgage production revenue of
$898 million was up $18 million, as higher mortgage
origination volume was predominantly offset by an
increase in reserves related to the repurchase of
previously sold loans and markdowns of the mortgage
warehouse. Net mortgage servicing revenue (which
includes loan servicing revenue, MSR risk
management results and other changes in fair value)
was $2.7 billion, an increase of $1.5 billion, or
124%, from the prior year. Loan servicing revenue
was $3.3 billion, an increase of $924 million.
Third-party loans serviced increased 91%, primarily
due to the Washington Mutual transaction. MSR risk
management results were $1.5 billion, compared with
$411 million in the prior year. Other changes in
fair value of the MSR asset were negative $2.1
billion, compared with negative $1.5 billion in the
prior year.

The provision for credit losses was $9.5 billion,
compared with $2.5 billion in the prior year. The
provision reflected weakness in the home equity and
mortgage portfolios (see Retail Financial Services
discussion of the provision for credit losses for
further detail).

Noninterest expense was $4.8 billion, up $1.1
billion, or 30%, from the prior year, reflecting
higher mortgage reinsurance losses, the impact of
the Washington Mutual transaction and higher
servicing expense due to increased delinquencies
and defaults.

2007 compared with 2006  
Consumer Lending net income was $680 million, a
decrease of $611 million, or 47%, from the prior
year. Total net revenue was $7.3 billion, up $1.5
billion, or 25%, benefiting from positive MSR risk
management results, increased mortgage production
revenue, wider loan spreads and the absence of a
prior-year $233 million loss related to $13.3
billion of mortgage loans transferred to
held-for-sale. These benefits were offset partially
by the sale of the insurance business.

Mortgage production revenue was $880 million, up
$576 million, reflecting the impact of an increase
in mortgage loan originations and the
classification of certain loan origination costs as
expense (loan origination costs previously netted
against revenue commenced being recorded as an
expense in the first quarter of 2007 due to the
adoption of SFAS 159).These benefits were offset
partially by markdowns of $241 million on the
mortgage warehouse and pipeline. Net mortgage
servicing revenue, which includes loan servicing
revenue, MSR risk management results and other
changes in fair value, was $1.2 billion, compared
with $314 million in the prior year. Loan servicing
revenue of $2.3 billion increased $195 million on
17% growth in third-party loans serviced. MSR risk
management results were positive $411 million
compared with negative $385 million in the prior
year. Other changes in fair value of the MSR asset
were negative $1.5 billion, compared with negative
$1.4 billion in the prior year.

The provision for credit losses was $2.5 billion,
compared with $447 million in the prior year. The
increase in the provision was due to the home
equity and subprime mortgage portfolios (see Retail
Financial Services discussion of the provision for
credit losses for further detail).

Noninterest expense was $3.7 billion, an increase
of $479 million, or 15%. The increase reflected the
classification of certain loan origination costs
due to the adoption of SFAS 159; higher servicing
costs due to increased delinquencies and defaults;
higher production expense due to growth in
originations; and increased depreciation expense on
owned automobiles subject to operating leases.
These increases were offset partially by the sale
of the insurance business.

Selected metrics 

Table of Contents   

Credit data and quality statistics 

(a) 
       
     Excludes the impact of purchased credit-impaired loans accounted for under SOP
03-3 that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction. Under SOP
03-3, these loans were accounted for at fair value on the acquisition date, which
includes the impact of estimated credit losses over the remaining lives of the loans.
Accordingly, no charge-offs and no allowance for loan losses has been recorded for
these loans. 

(b) 
       
     Average loans included loans held-for-sale of $2.8 billion, $10.6 billion and $16.1
billion for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These
amounts were excluded when calculating the net charge-off rate. 

(c) 
       
     Excluded loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA
pools that are insured by U.S. government agencies of $3.2 billion, $1.2 billion and
$960 million, at December 31, 2008 ,2007 and 2006,
respectively. These amounts
were excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 

(d) 
       
     Excluded loans that are 30 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by
U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of
$824 million, $663 million and $464 million at December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively. These amounts are excluded as reimbursement is proceeding
normally. 

(e) 
       
     Excludes purchased credit-impaired loans. The 30+
day delinquency rate for these loans was 17.89% at December 31,
2008. There were no purchased credit-impaired loans at
December 31, 2007 and 2006. 

(f) 
       
     Nonperforming assets excluded (1) loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans
repurchased from Governmental National Mortgage Association ( GNMA ) pools
that are insured by U.S. government agencies of $3.3 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.2
billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and (2) student loans
that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government
agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $437 million, $417
million and $387 million at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These
amounts for GNMA and student loans are excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 

(g) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the policy for classifying subprime mortgage
and home equity loans as nonperforming was changed to conform to all other
home lending products. Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect
this change. Amounts for 2006 have not been revised as the impact was not material. 

(h) 
       
     Excludes purchased credit-impaired loans accounted for under SOP 03-3 that were
acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction. These loans are accounted
for on a pool basis, and the pools are considered to be performing under SOP 03-3. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Mortgage origination channels comprise the following: 

Retail    Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home
through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the
Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers
are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.

Wholesale    A third-party mortgage
broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent
loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers
but do not provide funding for loans.

Correspondent    Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and
other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.

Correspondent negotiated transactions
( CNT )    Mid-to
large-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned companies
that sell loans or servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis,
excluding bulk servicing transactions.

Production revenue   
Includes net gains or losses on originations and sales of prime and subprime mortgage loans and other
production-related fees.

Net
mortgage servicing revenue components:   Servicing
revenue    Represents all gross income earned from servicing
third-party mortgage loans, including stated service fees, excess
service fees, late fees and other ancillary fees.

Changes in MSR asset fair value due to inputs or
assumptions in model    Represents MSR asset fair value
adjustments due to changes in market-based inputs, such as
interest rates and volatility, as well as updates to valuation
assumptions used in the valuation model.

Changes
in MSR asset fair value due to other changes   
Includes changes in the MSR value due to modeled servicing
portfolio runoff (or time decay).

Derivative valuation adjustments and
other    Changes in
the fair value of derivative instruments used to offset the impact
of changes in market-based inputs to the MSR valuation model.

MSR
risk management results    Includes changes in MSR
asset fair value due to inputs or assumptions and derivative valuation adjustments and other.

Table of Contents   

CARD SERVICES

Chase Card Services is one of the nation s largest card
issuers with more than 168 million credit cards in circulation and more than $190 billion in
managed loans.
Customers used Chase cards to meet more than $368
billion worth of their spending needs in 2008. Chase has
a market leadership position in building loyalty and
rewards programs with many of the world s most
respected brands and through its proprietary products,
which include the Chase Freedom program. 

Through its merchant acquiring business, Chase
Paymentech Solutions, Chase is one of the leading
processors of MasterCard and Visa payments. 

JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of  managed basis  to evaluate
the credit performance of its credit card loans, both loans on the balance sheet and loans that
have been securitized. For further information, see Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm s
use of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 38 39 of this Annual Report.
Managed results exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on
total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and
loan receivables. Securitization does not change reported net income;
however, it does affect the classification of items on the Consolidated
Statements of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The following discussion of CS  financial results reflects the acquisition of Washington Mutual s
credit card operations, including $28.3
billion of managed credit card loans, as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction on September 25, 2008, and
the dissolution of the Chase
Paymentech Solutions joint venture on November 1, 2008. See Note
2 on pages 123 128 of this Annual Report for more information
concerning these transactions.

Selected income statement data   managed basis 

2008 compared with 2007  
Net income was $780 million, a decline of $2.1
billion, or 73%, from the prior year. The decrease
was driven by a higher provision for credit losses,
partially offset by higher total net revenue.

Average managed loans were $162.9 billion, an
increase of $13.5 billion, or 9%, from the prior
year. Excluding Washington Mutual, average managed
loans were $155.9 billion. End-of-period managed
loans were $190.3 billion, an increase of $33.3
billion, or 21%, from the prior year. Excluding
Washington Mutual, end-of-period managed loans were
$162.1 billion. The increases in both average
managed loans and end-of-period managed loans were
predominantly due to the impact of the Washington
Mutual transaction and organic portfolio growth.

Managed total net revenue was $16.5 billion, an
increase of $1.2 billion, or 8%, from the prior
year. Net interest income was $13.8 billion, up
$1.6 billion, or 13%, from the prior year, driven
by the Washington Mutual transaction, higher
average managed loan balances, and wider loan
spreads. These benefits were offset partially by
the effect of higher revenue reversals associated
with higher charge-offs. Noninterest revenue was
$2.7 billion, a decrease of $327 million, or 11%,
from the prior year, driven by increased rewards
expense, lower securitization income driven by
higher credit losses, and higher volume-driven
payments to partners; these were largely offset by
increased interchange income, benefiting from a 4%
increase in charge volume, as well as the impact of
the Washington Mutual transaction.

The managed provision for credit losses was $10.1
billion, an increase of $4.3 billion, or 76%, from
the prior year, due to an increase of $1.7 billion
in the allowance for loan losses and a higher level
of charge-offs. The managed net charge-off rate
increased to
5.01%, up from 3.68% in the prior year. The 30-day
managed delinquency rate was 4.97%, up from 3.48%
in the prior year. Excluding Washington Mutual, the
managed net charge-off rate was 4.92% and the
30-day delinquency rate was 4.36%.

Noninterest expense was $5.1 billion, an increase
of $226 million, or 5%, from the prior year,
predominantly due to the impact of the Washington
Mutual transaction.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

2007 compared with 2006  
Net income of $2.9 billion was down $287 million,
or 9%, from the prior year. Prior-year results
benefited from significantly lower net charge-offs
following the
change in bankruptcy legislation in the fourth
quarter of 2005. The increase in net charge-offs
was offset partially by higher revenue.

End-of-period managed loans of $157.1 billion
increased $4.2 billion, or 3%, from the prior year.
Average managed loans of $149.3 billion increased
$8.2 billion, or 6%, from the prior year. The
increases in both end-of-period and average managed
loans resulted from organic growth.

Managed total net revenue was $15.2 billion, an
increase of $490 million, or 3%, from the prior
year. Net interest income was $12.2 billion, up
$388 million, or 3%, from the prior year. The
increase in net interest income was driven by a
higher level of fees and higher average loan
balances. These benefits were offset partially by
narrower loan spreads, the discontinuation of
certain billing practices (including the
elimination of certain over-limit fees and the
two-cycle billing method for calculating finance
charges beginning in the second quarter of 2007)
and the effect of higher revenue reversals
associated

with higher charge-offs. Noninterest
revenue was $3.0 billion, an increase of $102
million, or 3%, from the prior year. The increase
reflected a higher level of fee-based revenue and
increased net interchange income, which benefited
from higher charge volume. Charge volume growth was
4%, reflecting a 9% increase in sales volume,
offset primarily by a lower level of balance
transfers, the result of more targeted marketing
efforts.

The managed provision for credit losses was $5.7
billion, an increase of $1.1 billion, or 24%, from
the prior year. The increase was primarily due to a
higher level of net charge-offs (the prior year
benefited from the change in bankruptcy legislation
in the fourth quarter of 2005) and an increase in
the allowance for loan losses, driven by higher
estimated net charge-offs in the portfolio. The
managed net charge-off rate was 3.68%, up from
3.33% in the prior year. The 30-day managed
delinquency rate was 3.48%, up from 3.13% in the
prior year.

Noninterest expense was $4.9 billion, a decrease of
$172 million, or 3%, compared with the prior year,
primarily due to lower marketing expense and lower
fraud-related expense, partially offset by higher
volume-related expense.

The following are brief descriptions of selected business metrics within Card Services. 

Charge volume    Represents the dollar amount of cardmember purchases, balance transfers and cash
advance activity. 

Net accounts opened    Includes originations, purchases and sales. 

Merchant acquiring business    Represents a business that processes bank card transactions for
merchants. 

Bank card volume    Represents the dollar amount of transactions processed for merchants. 

Total transactions    Represents the number of transactions and authorizations processed for
merchants. 

Table of Contents   

Selected metrics 

(a) 
       
     Represents total net revenue
less provision for credit losses. 

(b) 
       
     Pretax return on average managed
outstandings. 

(c) 
       
     Results for 2008 included approximately 13
million credit card accounts acquired in the
Washington Mutual transaction. Results for 2006
included approximately 30 million accounts from
loan portfolio acquisitions. 

(d) 
       
     The Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture
was dissolved effective November 1, 2008. For the
period January 1, 2008 through October 31, 2008,
the data presented represent activity for the
Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture and for
the period November 1, 2008 through December 31,
2008, the data presented represent activity for
Chase Paymentech Solutions. 

(e) 
       
     Results for 2008 reflect the impact of
purchase accounting adjustments related to the
Washington Mutual transaction. 

(f) 
       
     Based on loans on a reported basis. 

(g) 
       
     Statistics are only presented for periods
after September 25, 2008, the date of the
Washington Mutual transaction. 

(h) 
       
     As a percentage of average managed outstandings. 

(i) 
       
     The 2008 allowance for loan losses included an
amount related to loans acquired in the Washington
Mutual transaction. 

The financial information presented below
reconciles reported basis and managed basis to
disclose the effect of securitizations.

(a) 
       
     For a discussion of managed basis, see the non-GAAP financial measures discussion on pages
38 39 of this Annual Report. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

COMMERCIAL BANKING

Commercial Banking serves more than 26,000
clients nationally, including corporations,
municipalities, financial institutions and
not-for-profit entities with annual revenue
generally ranging from $10 million to $2
billion, and nearly 30,000 real estate
investors/owners.
Delivering extensive industry knowledge, local
expertise and dedicated service, CB partners
with the Firm s other businesses to provide
comprehensive solutions, including lending,
treasury services, investment banking and asset
management, to meet its clients  domestic and
international financial needs. 

On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the
banking operations of Washington Mutual from the
FDIC, adding approximately $44.5 billion in loans
to the Commercial Term Lending, Real Estate
Banking and Other businesses in Commercial
Banking. On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase
completed the acquisition of The Bank of New
York s consumer, business banking and
middle-market banking businesses, adding
approximately $2.3 billion in loans and
$1.2 billion in deposits in Commercial Banking.

Selected income statement data 

(a) 
       
     Revenue from investment banking products sold to CB clients and commercial card
revenue is included in all other income. 

2008 compared with 2007  
Net income was $1.4 billion, an increase of $305
million, or 27%, from the prior year, due to
growth in total net revenue including the impact
of the Washington Mutual transaction, partially
offset by a higher provision for credit losses.

Record total net revenue of $4.8 billion increased
$674 million, or 16%. Net interest income of $3.3
billion increased $456 million, or 16%, driven by
double-digit growth in liability and loan balances
and the impact of the Washington Mutual
transaction, partially offset by spread compression
in the liability and loan portfolios. Noninterest
revenue was $1.5 billion, up $218 million, or 17%,
due to higher deposit and lending-related fees.

On a client segment basis, Middle Market Banking
revenue was $2.9 billion, an increase of $250
million, or 9%, from the prior year due
predominantly to higher deposit-related fees and
growth in liability and loan balances. Revenue from
Commercial Term Lending, a new client segment
established as a result of the Washington Mutual
transaction encompassing multi-family and
commercial mortgage loans, was $243 million.
Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $921 million, an
increase of $106 million, or 13%, reflecting higher
loan balances, investment banking revenue, and
deposit-related fees. Real Estate Banking revenue
of $413 million decreased $8 million, or 2%.

Provision for credit losses was $464 million, an
increase of $185 million, or 66%, compared with the
prior year, reflecting a weakening credit
environment and loan growth. Net charge-offs were
$288 million (0.35% net charge-off rate), compared
with $44 million (0.07% net charge-off rate) in the
prior year, predominantly related to an increase in
real estate charge-offs. The allowance for loan
losses increased $1.1 billion, which primarily
reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual
transaction. Nonperforming assets were $1.1
billion, an increase of $1.0 billion compared with
the prior year, predominantly reflecting the
Washington Mutual transaction and higher real
estate-related balances.

Noninterest expense was $1.9 billion, a decrease of
$12 million, or 1%, from the prior year, due to
lower performance-based incentive compensation and
volume-based charges from service providers,
predominantly offset by the impact of the
Washington Mutual transaction.

2007 compared with 2006  
Net income was $1.1 billion, an increase of $124
million, or 12%, from the prior year due primarily
to growth in total net revenue, partially offset by
higher provision for credit losses.

Record total net revenue of $4.1 billion increased $303 million, or
8%. Net interest income of $2.8 billion increased
$113 million, or 4%, driven by double-digit growth
in liability balances and loans, which reflected
organic growth and the Bank of New York
transaction, largely offset by the continued shift
to narrower-spread liability products and spread
compression in the loan and liability portfolios.
Noninterest revenue was $1.3 billion, up $190
million, or 18%, due to increased deposit-related
fees, higher investment banking revenue, and gains
on sales of securities acquired in the satisfaction
of debt.

On a segment basis, Middle Market Banking revenue
was $2.7 billion, an increase of $154 million, or
6%, primarily due to the Bank of New York
transaction, higher deposit-related fees and growth
in investment banking revenue. Mid-Corporate
Banking revenue was $815 million, an increase of
$159 million, or 24%, reflecting higher

Table of Contents   

lending revenue, investment banking revenue,
and gains on sales of securities acquired in the
satisfaction of debt. Real Estate Banking revenue
of $421 million decreased $37 million, or 8%.

Provision for credit losses was $279 million,
compared with $160 million in the prior year. The
increase in the allowance for credit losses
reflected portfolio activity including slightly
lower credit quality as well as growth in loan
balances. The allowance for loan losses to average
loans retained was 2.81%, compared with 2.86% in
the prior year.

Noninterest expense was $2.0 billion, a decrease
of $21 million, or 1%, largely due to lower
compensation expense driven by the absence of
prior-year expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R,
partially offset by expense growth related to the
Bank of New York transaction.

Selected metrics 

(a) 
       
     Represents the total revenue related to investment banking products sold to CB
clients. 

(b) 
       
     Results for 2008 include total net revenue and average loans acquired in the
Washington Mutual transaction. 

(c) 
       
     Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to on-balance sheet
liabilities such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or
sold under repurchase agreements. 

(d) 
       
     Purchased credit-impaired wholesale loans accounted for under SOP 03-3 that were
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction are considered nonperforming loans because
the timing and amount of expected cash flows are not reasonably estimable.
These nonperforming loans were included when calculating the allowance coverage ratio, the
allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans ratio, and the nonperforming loans to
average loans ratio. The carrying amount of these purchased credit- impaired loans was $224
million at December 31, 2008. 

(e) 
       
     Beginning in 2008, the allowance for loan losses included an amount related to
loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and the Bear Stearns merger. 

(f) 
       
     Loans held-for-sale and loans accounted for at fair value were excluded when
calculating the allowance coverage ratio and the net charge-off rate. 

(g) 
       
     The September 30, 2008, ending loan balance of $44.5 billion
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction is treated as if it had
been part of the loan balance for the entire third quarter of 2008.  

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

TREASURY   SECURITIES SERVICES

TSS is a global leader in transaction, investment and information services. TSS is one of the
world s largest cash management providers and a leading global custodian. TS provides cash
management, trade, wholesale card and liquidity products and services to small and mid-sized
companies, multinational corporations, financial institutions and government entities. TS partners
with the Commercial Banking, Retail Financial Services and Asset Management businesses to serve
clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenue is included in other segments  results. WSS
holds, values, clears and services securities, cash and alternative investments for investors and
broker-dealers, and manages depositary receipt programs globally. 

As a result of the transaction with the Bank of New York on October
1, 2006, selected corporate trust businesses were transferred from TSS to the Corporate/Private
Equity segment and are reported in discontinued operations.

Selected income statement data 

(a) 
       
     TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within IB
credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS. Beginning in first quarter 2009, income
statement and balance sheet items for credit portfolio activity related to joint IB/TSS
clients will be reflected proportionally in the respective IB and TSS financials. This will
replace the previous approach whereby a credit reimbursement was charged to TSS by IB. 

(b) 
       
     Pretax margin represents income before income tax expense divided by total net
revenue, which is a measure of pretax performance and another basis by which management
evaluates its performance and that of its competitors. 

(c) 
       
     Loan balances include wholesale overdrafts, commercial card and trade finance loans. 

(d) 
       
     Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to on-balance sheet liabilities
such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements. 

2008 compared with 2007  
Net income was a record $1.8 billion, an increase of $370 million, or 26%, from the prior year,
driven by higher total net revenue. This increase was largely offset by higher noninterest expense.

Total net revenue was a record $8.1 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion, or 17%, from the prior
year. Worldwide Securities Services posted record net revenue of $4.6 billion, an increase of $647
million, or 16%, from the prior year. The growth was driven by wider spreads in securities lending,
foreign exchange and liability products, increased product usage by new and existing clients
(largely in custody, fund services, alternative investment services and depositary receipts) and
higher liability balances, reflecting increased client deposit activity resulting from recent
market conditions. These benefits were offset partially by market depreciation. Treasury Services
posted record net revenue of $3.6 billion, an increase of $542 million, or 18%, reflecting higher
liability balances and volume growth in electronic funds transfer products and trade loans. Revenue
growth from higher liability balances reflects increased client deposit activity resulting from
recent market conditions as well as organic growth. TSS firmwide net revenue, which includes
Treasury Services net revenue recorded in other lines of business, grew to $11.1 billion, an
increase of $1.5 billion, or 16%. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to $6.5 billion, an
increase of $869 million, or 15%.

Noninterest expense was $5.2 billion, an increase of $643 million, or 14%, from the prior year,
reflecting higher expense related to business and volume growth as well as continued investment in
new product platforms.

2007 compared with 2006  
Net income was a record $1.4 billion, an increase of $307 million, or 28%, from the prior year,
driven by record total net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.

Table of Contents   

Total net revenue was $6.9 billion, an increase of $836 million, or 14%, from the prior year.
Worldwide Securities Services net revenue of $3.9 billion was up $615 million, or 19%. The growth
was driven by increased product usage by new and existing clients (primarily custody, securities
lending, depositary receipts and fund services), market appreciation on assets under custody, and
wider spreads on securities lending. These gains were offset partially by spread compression on
liability products. Treasury Services net revenue was $3.0 billion, an increase of $221 million, or
8%, from the prior year. The results were driven by growth in electronic transaction volumes and
higher liability balances, offset partially by a shift to narrower-spread liability products. TSS
firmwide net revenue, which includes Treasury Services net revenue recorded in other lines of
business, grew to $9.6 billion, up
$1.0 billion, or 12%. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to
$5.6 billion, up $391 million, or 7%.

Noninterest expense was $4.6 billion, an increase of $314 million, or 7%, from the prior year,
reflecting higher expense related to business and volume growth, as well as investment in new
product platforms.

Treasury   Securities Services firmwide metrics include revenue recorded in the CB, Retail Banking
and AM lines of business and excludes foreign exchange ( FX ) revenue recorded in IB for
TSS-related FX activity. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and
revenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overhead
ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary in order to
understand the aggregate TSS business.

Selected metrics 

(a) 
       
     TSS firmwide FX revenue, which includes FX revenue recorded in TSS and FX revenue
associated with TSS customers who are FX customers of IB, was $880 million, $552 million and
$445 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

(b) 
       
     Firmwide liability balances include TS  liability balances recorded in the Commercial
Banking line of business. 

(c) 
       
     Overhead ratios have been calculated based upon firmwide revenue and TSS and TS
expense, respectively, including those allocated to certain other lines of business. FX
revenue and expense recorded in IB for TSS-related FX activity are not included in this ratio. 

(d) 
       
     International electronic funds transfer includes non-U.S. dollar ACH and clearing
volume. 

(e) 
       
     Wholesale cards issued include domestic commercial card, stored value card, prepaid
card and government electronic benefit card products. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

ASSET MANAGEMENT

AM, with assets under supervision of $1.5 trillion, is a global leader in investment and wealth
management. AM clients include institutions, retail investors and high-net-worth individuals in
every major market throughout the world. AM offers global investment management in equities, fixed
income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity and liquidity, including money market instruments
and bank deposits. AM also provides trust and estate, banking and brokerage services to
high-net-worth clients, and retirement services for corporations and individuals. The majority of
AM s client assets are in actively managed portfolios. 

On May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase merged with The Bear Stearns Companies, Inc. The merger resulted in
the addition of a new client segment, Bear Stearns Brokerage, but did not materially affect
balances or business metrics.

Selected income statement data 

(a) 
       
     In 2008, certain clients were transferred from Private Bank to Private Wealth
Management. Prior periods have been revised to conform to this change. 

(b) 
       
     Pretax margin represents income before income tax expense divided by total net
revenue, which is a measure of pretax performance and another basis by which management
evaluates its performance and that of its competitors. 

2008 compared with 2007  
Net income was $1.4 billion, a decline of $609 million, or 31%, from the prior year, driven by
lower total net revenue offset partially by lower noninterest expense.

Total net revenue was $7.6 billion, a decrease of $1.1 billion, or 12%, from the prior year.
Noninterest revenue was $6.1 billion, a decline of $1.4 billion, or 19%, due to lower performance
fees and the effect of lower markets, including the impact of lower market valuations of seed
capital investments. The lower results were offset partially by the benefit of the Bear Stearns
merger and increased revenue from net asset inflows. Net interest income was $1.5 billion, up $358
million, or 31%, from the prior year, due to higher deposit and loan balances and wider deposit
spreads.

Private Bank revenue grew 9% to $2.6 billion, due to increased deposit and loan balances and net
asset inflows, partially offset by the effect of lower markets and lower performance fees.
Institutional revenue declined 30% to $1.8 billion due to lower performance fees, partially offset
by net liquidity inflows. Retail revenue declined 33% to $1.6 billion due to the effect of lower
markets, including the impact of lower market valuations of seed capital investments and net equity
outflows. Private Wealth Management revenue grew 4% to $1.4 billion due to higher deposit and loan
balances. Bear Stearns Brokerage contributed $237 million to revenue.

The provision for credit losses was $85 million, compared with a benefit of $18 million in the
prior year, reflecting an increase in loan balances, higher net charge-offs and a weakening credit
environment.

Noninterest expense was $5.3 billion, down $217 million, or 4%, compared with the prior year due to
lower performance-based compensation, largely offset by the effect of the Bear Stearns merger and
higher compensation expense resulting from increased average headcount.

2007 compared with 2006  
Net income was a record $2.0 billion, an increase of $557 million, or 40%, from the prior year.
Results benefited from record total net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.

Total net revenue was $8.6 billion, an increase of $1.8 billion, or 27%, from the prior year.
Noninterest revenue, primarily fees and commissions, was $7.5 billion, up $1.7 billion, or 29%,
largely due to increased assets under management and higher performance and placement fees. Net
interest income was $1.2 billion, up $189 million, or 19%, from the prior year, largely due to
higher deposit and loan balances.

Institutional revenue grew 28% to $2.5 billion, due to net asset inflows and performance fees.
Private Bank revenue grew 40% to
$2.4 billion, due to higher assets under management, performance and placement fees, and increased
loan and deposit balances. Retail revenue grew 28%, to $2.4 billion, primarily due to market
appreciation and net asset inflows. Private Wealth Management revenue

Table of Contents   

grew 8% to $1.3 billion, reflecting higher assets under management and higher deposit balances.

The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $18 million, compared with a benefit of $28
million in the prior year.

Noninterest expense was $5.5 billion, an increase of $937 million, or 20%, from the prior year. The
increase was due primarily to higher performance-based compensation expense and investments in all
business segments.

Selected metrics 

(a) 
       
     Derived from following rating services: Morningstar for the United States; Micropal
for the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Hong Kong and Taiwan; and Nomura for Japan. 

(b) 
       
     Derived from following rating services: Lipper for the United States and Taiwan;
Micropal for the United Kingdom, Luxembourg and Hong Kong; and Nomura for Japan. 

(c) 
       
     Reflects the transfer in 2007 of held-for-investment prime mortgage loans transferred
from AM to Corporate within the Corporate/Private Equity segment. 

AM s client segments comprise the following: 

Institutional  brings comprehensive global investment services  including asset management, pension
analytics, asset-liability management and active risk budgeting strategies   to corporate and
public institutions, endowments, foundations, not-for-profit organizations and governments
worldwide.

Retail  provides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning and administration
through third-party and direct distribution of a full range of investment vehicles.

The  Private Bank  addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individuals
and families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax
and estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services.

Private Wealth Management  offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business owners in the
United States comprehensive wealth management solutions, including investment management, capital
markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking and specialty-wealth advisory
services.

Bear Stearns Brokerage  provides investment advice and wealth management services to high-net-worth
individuals, money managers, and small corporations.

J.P.
Morgan Asset Management has established two measures of its overall performance. 

Percentage of assets under management in funds rated 4 and 5 stars (3 year). Mutual fund
rating services rank funds based on their risk-adjusted performance over various periods. A 5
star rating is the best and represents the top 10% of industry wide ranked funds. A 4 star
rating represents the next 22% of industry wide ranked funds. The worst rating is a 1 star
rating. 

Percentage of assets under management in first- or second- quartile funds (one, three
and five years). Mutual fund rating services rank funds according to a peer-based performance
system, which measures returns according to specific time and fund classification (small, mid,
multi and large cap). 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Assets under supervision 

2008 compared with 2007  
Assets under supervision ( AUS ) were $1.5 trillion, a decrease of $76 billion, or 5%, from the prior year.
Assets under management ( AUM ) were $1.1 trillion, down $60 billion, or 5%, from the prior year. The
decrease was due to the effect of lower markets and non-liquidity outflows, predominantly offset by
liquidity product inflows across all segments and the addition of Bear Stearns assets under
management. Custody, brokerage,
administration and deposit balances were $363 billion, down $16 billion due to the effect of lower
markets on brokerage and custody balances, offset by the addition of Bear Stearns Brokerage. The
Firm also has a 43% interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $70 billion and
$102 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are excluded from the AUM above.

2007 compared with 2006  
AUS were $1.6 trillion, an increase of $225 billion, or 17%, from the
prior year. AUM were $1.2 trillion, up 18%, or $180 billion, from the
prior year. The increase in AUM was the result of net asset inflows into liquidity and alternative
products and market appreciation across all segments. Custody, brokerage, administration and
deposit balances were $379 billion, up $45 billion. The Firm also has a 44% interest in American
Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $102 billion and $103 billion at December 31, 2007 and
2006, respectively, which are excluded from the AUM above.

(a) 
       
     Excludes assets under management of American Century Companies, Inc., in which the
Firm had a 43%, 44% and 43% ownership at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

(b) 
       
     In 2008, certain clients were transferred from Private Bank to Private Wealth
Management. Prior periods have been revised to conform to this change. 

(c) 
       
     Includes $15 billion for assets under management and $68 billion for assets under
supervision from the Bear Stearns merger in the second quarter of 2008. 

Table of Contents   

CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY

The Corporate/Private Equity sector
comprises Private Equity, Treasury, corporate
staff units and expense that is centrally
managed. Treasury manages capital, liquidity,
interest rate and foreign exchange risk and the
investment portfolio for the Firm. The corporate
staff units include Central Technology and
Operations, Internal Audit, Executive Office,
Finance, Human Resources, Marketing  
Communications, Legal   Compliance, Corporate
Real Estate and General Services, Risk
Management, Corporate Responsibility and
Strategy   Development. Other centrally managed
expense includes the Firm s occupancy and
pension-related expense, net of allocations to
the business. 

Selected income statement data 

(a) 
       
     Included losses on preferred equity interests in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in
2008. 

(b) 
       
     The Firm adopted SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2007. See Note 4 on pages
129 143 of this Annual Report for additional information. 

(c) 
       
     Included gain on sale of MasterCard shares in 2008. 

(d) 
       
     Included a gain from the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint
venture and proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initial public offering in 2008. 

(e) 
       
     Represents an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the
acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank s banking operations. For a further discussion, see
Consumer Credit Portfolio on page 99 of this Annual Report. 

(f) 
       
     Included a release of credit card litigation reserves in 2008 and insurance
recoveries related to settlement of the Enron and WorldCom class action litigations and
for certain other material legal proceedings of $512 million for full year 2006. 

(g) 
       
     Includes tax benefits recognized upon resolution of tax audits. 

(h) 
       
     Included a $622 million gain from the sale of selected corporate trust businesses
in 2006. 

(i) 
       
     Effective September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired Washington Mutual s banking
operations from the FDIC for $1.9 billion. The fair value of the Washington Mutual net
assets acquired exceeded the purchase price, which resulted in negative goodwill. In
accordance with SFAS 141, nonfinancial assets that are not held-for-sale were written
down against that negative goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained after writing
down nonfinancial assets was recognized as an extraordinary gain in 2008. 

(j) 
       
     In November 2008, the Firm transferred $5.8 billion of higher quality credit card
loans from the legacy Chase portfolio to a securitization trust previously established by
Washington Mutual ( the Trust ). As a result of converting higher credit quality
Chase-originated on-book receivables to the Trust s seller s interest which has a higher
overall loss rate reflective of the total assets within the Trust, approximately $400
million of incremental provision expense was recorded during the fourth quarter. This
incremental provision expense was recorded in the Corporate segment as the action related
to the acquisition of Washington Mutual s banking operations. For further discussion of
credit card securitizations, see Note 16 on pages 169 170 of this Annual Report. 

(k) 
       
     Includes $9 million for credit card securitizations related to the Washington
Mutual transaction. 

2008 compared with 2007  
Net income for Corporate/Private Equity was $557
million, compared with net income of $1.9 billion
in the prior year. This segment includes the
results of Private Equity and Corporate business
segments, as well as merger-related items.

Net loss for Private Equity was $690 million,
compared with net income of $2.2 billion in the
prior year. Net revenue was negative $963
million, a decrease of $4.9 billion, reflecting
Private Equity losses of $894 million, compared
with gains of $4.1 billion in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was negative $120 million, a
decrease of $469 million from the prior year,
reflecting lower compensation expense.

Net income for Corporate was $1.5 billion, compared
with a net loss of $150 million in the prior year.
Net revenue was $1.0 billion, an increase of $580
million. Excluding merger-related items, net
revenue was $1.7 billion, an increase of $1.2
billion. Net revenue included a gain of $1.5
billion on the proceeds from the sale of Visa
shares in its initial public offering, $1.0 billion
on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech
Solutions joint venture, and $668 million from the
sale of MasterCard shares, partially offset by
losses of $1.1 billion on preferred securities of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and $464 million related
to the offer to repurchase auction-rate securities.
2007 included a gain of $234 million on the sale of
MasterCard shares.
Noninterest expense was negative $736 million,
compared with $959 million in the prior year,
driven mainly by lower litigation expense.

Merger-related items were a net loss of $2.1
billion
compared with a net loss of $130 million in the
prior year. Washington Mutual merger-related items
included conforming loan loss reserve of $1.5
billion, credit card related loan loss reserves of
$403 million and net merger-related costs of $138
million. Bear Stearns merger-related included a net
loss of $423 million, which represented JPMorgan
Chase s
49.4% ownership in Bear Stearns losses from April
8 to May 30, 2008, and net merger-related costs
of $665 million. 2007 included merger costs of
$209 million related to the Bank One and Bank of
New York transactions.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

2007 compared with 2006  
Net income was $1.9 billion, compared with $842
million in the prior year, benefiting from strong
Private Equity gains, partially offset by higher
expense. Prior-year results also included Income
from discontinued operations of $795 million, which
included a one-time gain of $622 million from the
sale of selected corporate trust businesses.

Net income for Private Equity was $2.2 billion,
compared with $627 million in the prior year.
Total net revenue was $4.0 billion, an increase of
$2.8 billion. The increase was driven by Private
Equity gains of $4.1 billion, compared with $1.3
billion, reflecting a higher level of gains and
the change in classification of carried interest
to compensation expense. Total noninterest expense
was $589 million, an increase of $422 million from
the prior year. The increase was driven by higher
compensation expense, reflecting the change in the
classification of carried interest.

Net loss for Corporate was $150 million, compared
with a net loss of $391 million in the prior year.
Corporate total net revenue was $452 million, an
increase of $1.6 billion. Revenue benefited from
net security gains compared with net security
losses in the prior year and improved net interest
spread. Total noninterest expense was $959 million,
an increase of $284 million from the prior year.
The increase reflected higher net litigation
expense, driven by credit card-related litigation
and the absence of prior-year insurance recoveries
related to certain material litigation, partially
offset by lower compensation expense.

Net loss for merger costs related to the Bank One
and the Bank of New York transactions were $130
million, compared with a loss of $189 million in
the prior year. Merger costs were $209 million,
compared with $305 million in the prior year.

Selected metrics 

(a) 
       
     The Firm adopted SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2007. See Note 4 on pages
129 143 of this Annual Report for additional information. 

(b) 
       
     Included a release of credit card litigation reserves in 2008 and insurance
recoveries related to settlement of the Enron and WorldCom class action litigations and
for certain other material legal proceedings of $512 million for full year 2006. 

(c) 
       
     Includes tax benefits recognized upon resolution of tax audits. 

(d) 
       
     Includes an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the
Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 2008 also reflects items related to the Bear Stearns
merger, which included Bear Stearns  losses, merger costs, Bear Stearns asset management
liquidation costs and Bear Stearns private client services broker retention expense. Prior
periods represent costs related to the Bank One transaction in 2004 and the Bank of New
York transaction in 2006. 

(e) 
       
     Included a $622 million gain from the sale of selected corporate trust business in
2006. 

Table of Contents   

Private equity portfolio 

2008 compared with 2007  
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio
at December 31, 2008, was $6.9 billion, down from
$7.2 billion at December 31, 2007. The portfolio
decrease was primarily driven by unfavorable
valuation adjustments on existing investments,
partially offset by new investments, and the
addition of the Bear Stearns portfolios. The
portfolio represented 5.8% of the Firm s
stockholders  equity less goodwill at December 31,
2008, down from 9.2% at December 31, 2007.

2007 compared with 2006  
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio
at December 31, 2007, was $7.2 billion, up from
$6.1 billion at December 31, 2006. The portfolio
increase was due primarily to favorable valuation
adjustments on nonpublic investments and new
investments, partially offset by sales activity.
The portfolio represented 9.2% of the Firm s
stockholders  equity less goodwill at December 31,
2007, up from
8.6% at December 31, 2006.

Selected income statement and balance sheet data 

(a) 
       
     Results for 2008 included a gain on the sale of MasterCard shares. All periods
reflect repositioning of the Corporate investment securities portfolio and exclude
gains/losses on securities used to manage risk associated with MSRs. 

(b) 
       
     Includes Chief Investment Office investment securities only. 

(c) 
       
     Held-for-investment prime mortgage loans were transferred from AM to the
Corporate/Private Equity segment for risk management and reporting purposes. The initial
transfer in 2007 had no material impact on the financial results of Corporate/Private
Equity. 

(d) 
       
     Unrealized gains (losses) contain reversals of unrealized gains and losses that
were recognized in prior periods and have now been realized. 

(e) 
       
     The Firm adopted SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2007. For additional
information, see Note 4 on pages 129 143 of this Annual Report. 

(f) 
       
     Included in principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statements of
Income. 

(g) 
       
     For more information on the Firm s policies regarding the valuation of the private
equity portfolio, see Note 4 on pages 129 143 of this Annual Report. 

(h) 
       
     Unfunded commitments to third-party equity funds were $1.4 billion, $881 million
and $589 million at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

Selected balance sheet data 

Consolidated Balance Sheets overview  
The following is a discussion of the
significant changes in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets from December 31, 2007.

Deposits with banks; federal funds sold and
securities purchased under resale agreements;
securities borrowed; federal funds purchased and
securities loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements  
The Firm utilizes deposits with banks, federal
funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements, securities borrowed, and federal funds
purchased and securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements as part of its liquidity
management activities to manage the Firm s cash
positions and risk-based capital requirements and
to support the Firm s trading and risk management
activities. In particular, the Firm uses
securities purchased under resale agreements and
securities borrowed to provide funding or liquidity
to clients by purchasing and borrowing clients 
securities for the short-term. Federal funds
purchased and securities loaned or sold

under repurchase agreements are used as short-term
funding sources for the Firm and to make securities
available to clients for their short-term purposes.
The increase from December 31, 2007, in deposits
with banks reflected a higher level of interbank
lending; a reclassification of deposits with the
Federal Reserve Bank from cash and due from banks
to deposits with banks reflecting a policy change
of the Federal Reserve Bank to pay interest to
depository institutions on reserve balances, and
assets acquired as a result of the Bear Stearns
merger. The increase in securities borrowed and
securities purchased under resale agreements was
related to assets acquired as a result of the Bear
Stearns merger and growth in demand from clients
for liquidity. The increase in securities sold
under repurchase agreements reflected higher
short-term funding requirements to fulfill clients 
demand for liquidity and finance the Firm s AFS
securities inventory, and the effect of the
liabilities assumed in connection with the Bear
Stearns merger. For additional information on the
Firm s Liquidity Risk Management, see pages 76 80
of this Annual Report.

Trading assets and liabilities   debt and equity instruments  
The Firm uses debt and equity trading instruments
for both market-making and proprietary risk-taking
activities. These instruments consist predominantly
of fixed income securities, including government
and corporate debt; equity, including convertible
securities; loans, including certain prime mortgage
and other loans warehoused by RFS and IB for sale
or securitization purposes and accounted for at
fair value under SFAS 159; and physical commodities
inventories. The decreases in trading assets and
liabilities   debt and equity instruments from
December 31, 2007, reflected the effect of the
challenging capital markets environment,
particularly for debt securities, partially offset
by positions acquired as a result of the Bear
Stearns merger. For additional information, refer
to Note 4 and Note 6 on pages 129 143 and
146 148, respectively, of this Annual Report.

Trading assets and liabilities   derivative
receivables and payables  
Derivative instruments enable end-users to
increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or
market risks. The value of a derivative is derived
from its reference to an underlying variable or
combination of variables such as interest rate,
credit, foreign exchange, equity or commodity
prices or indices. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in
derivatives for customers, is an end-user of
derivatives for its principal risk-taking
activities, and is also an end-user of derivatives
to hedge or manage risks of market and credit exposures,
modify the interest rate characteristics of related
balance sheet instruments or meet longer-term
investment objectives. The majority of the Firm s
derivatives are entered into for market-making
purposes. The increase in derivative receivables
and payables from December 31, 2007, was primarily
related to the decline in interest rates, widening
credit spreads and volatile foreign exchange rates
reflected in interest rate, credit and foreign
exchange derivatives, respectively. The increase
also included positions acquired in the Bear
Stearns merger. For additional information, refer
to derivative contracts, Note 4, Note 6 and Note 32
on pages 129 143, 146 148, and 202 205,
respectively, of this Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

Securities  
Almost all of the Firm s securities portfolio is
classified as AFS and is used predominantly to
manage the Firm s exposure to interest rate
movements, as well as to make strategic longer-term
investments. The AFS portfolio increased from
December 31, 2007, predominantly as a result of
purchases, partially offset by sales and
maturities. For additional information related to
securities, refer to the Corporate/Private Equity
segment discussion, Note 4 and Note 12 on pages
61 63, 129 143 and 158 162, respectively, of
this Annual Report.

Loans and allowance for loan losses  
The Firm provides loans to a variety of customers,
from large corporate and institutional clients to
individual consumers. Loans increased from December
31, 2007, largely due to loans acquired in the
Washington Mutual transaction, organic growth in
lending in the wholesale businesses, particularly
CB, and growth in the consumer prime mortgage
portfolio driven by the decision to retain, rather
than sell, new originations of nonconforming
mortgage loans.

Both the consumer and wholesale components of the
allowance for loan losses increased from the prior
year reflecting the addition of noncredit-impaired
loans acquired in the Washington Mutual
transaction, including an increase to conform the allowance applicable to assets acquired from Washington Mutual to the
Firm s loan loss methodologies. Excluding the
Washington Mutual transaction the consumer
allowance rose due to an increase in estimated
losses for home equity, subprime mortgage, prime
mortgage and credit card loans due to the effects
of continued housing price declines, rising
unemployment and a weakening economic environment.
Excluding the Washington Mutual transaction, the
increase in the wholesale allowance was due to the
impact of the transfer of $4.9 billion of funded
and unfunded leveraged lending loans in IB to the
retained loan portfolio from the held-for-sale loan
portfolio, the effect of a weakening credit environment and loan growth. For a more detailed
discussion of the loan portfolio and the allowance
for loan losses, refer to Credit Risk Management on
pages 80 99, and Notes 4, 5, 14 and 15 on pages
129 143, 144 146, 163 166 and 166 168,
respectively, of this Annual Report.

Accrued interest and accounts receivable; accounts
payable and other liabilities  
The Firm s accrued interest and accounts receivable
consist of accrued interest receivable from
interest-earning assets; receivables from customers
(primarily from activities related to IB s Prime
Services business);
receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing
organizations; and receivables from failed
securities sales. The Firm s accounts payable and
other liabilities consist of accounts payable to
customers (primarily from activities related to
IB s Prime Services business), payables to brokers,
dealers and clearing organizations; payables from
failed securities purchases; accrued expense,
including for interest-bearing liabilities; and all
other liabilities, including obligations to return
securities received as collateral. The increase in
accrued interest and accounts receivable from
December 31, 2007, was due largely to the Bear
Stearns merger, reflecting higher customer
receivables in IB s Prime Services business and the
Washington Mutual transaction. The increase in
accounts payable and other liabilities

was predominantly due to the Bear Stearns merger,
reflecting higher customer payables (primarily
related to IB s Prime Services business), as well
as higher obligations to return securities received
as collateral. For additional information, see Note
22 on page 190 of this Annual Report.

Goodwill  
Goodwill arises from business combinations and
represents the excess of the cost of an acquired
entity over the net fair value amounts assigned to
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The
increase in goodwill was due predominantly to the
dissolution of Chase Paymentech Solutions joint
venture, the merger with Bear Stearns, the purchase
of an additional equity interest in Highbridge and
tax-related purchase accounting adjustments
associated with the Bank One merger, which
increased goodwill attributed to IB. These
items were offset partially by a decrease in
goodwill attributed to TSS predominantly resulting
from the sale of a previously consolidated
subsidiary. For additional information, see Note 18
on pages 186 189 of this Annual Report.

Other intangible assets  
The Firm s other intangible assets consist of MSRs,
purchased credit card relationships, other credit
card-related intangibles, core deposit intangibles,
and other intangibles. MSRs increased due to the
Washington Mutual transaction and the Bear Stearns
merger; sales in RFS of originated loans; and
purchases of MSRs. These increases in MSRs were
partially offset by markdowns of the fair value of
the MSR asset due to changes to inputs and
assumptions in the MSR valuation model, including
updates to prepayment assumptions to reflect
current expectations, and to servicing portfolio
run-offs. The decrease in other intangible assets
reflects amortization expense associated with
credit card-related and core deposit intangibles,
partially offset by increases due to the
dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint
venture, the purchase of an additional equity
interest in Highbridge, and the acquisition of an
institutional global custody portfolio. For
additional information on MSRs and other intangible
assets, see Note 18 on pages 186 189 of this
Annual Report.

Other assets  
The Firm s other assets consist of private equity
and
other investments, collateral received, corporate
and bank-owned life insurance policies, premises
and equipment, assets acquired in loan satisfaction
(including real estate owned), and all other
assets. The increase in other assets from December
31, 2007, was due to the Bear Stearns merger, which
partly resulted in a higher volume of collateral
received from customers, the Washington Mutual
transaction, and the purchase of asset-backed
commercial paper from money market mutual funds in
connection with the Federal Reserve s Asset-Backed
Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity
Facility ( AML Facility ), which was established by
the Federal Reserve on September 19, 2008, as a
temporary lending facility to provide liquidity to
eligible MMMFs. For additional information
regarding the AML Facility, see Executive Overview
and Note 22 on pages 29 32 and 190 respectively,
of this Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Deposits  
The Firm s deposits represent a liability to
customers, both retail and wholesale, related to
non-brokerage funds held on their behalf. Deposits
are generally classified by location (U.S. and
non-U.S.), whether they are interest or
noninterest-bearing, and by type (i.e., demand,
money market deposit, savings, time or negotiable
order of withdrawal accounts). Deposits help
provide a stable and consistent source of funding
for the Firm. Deposits were at a higher level
compared with the level at December 31, 2007,
predominantly from the deposits assumed in the
Washington Mutual transaction, net increases in
wholesale interest- and noninterest-bearing
deposits in TSS, AM and CB. The increase in TSS was
driven by both new and existing clients, and due to
the deposit inflows related to the heightened
volatility and credit concerns affecting the
markets. For more information on deposits, refer to
the TSS and RFS segment discussions on pages 56 57
and 45 50, respectively, and the Liquidity Risk
Management discussion on pages 76 80 of this
Annual Report. For more information on wholesale
liability balances, including deposits, refer to
the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 54 55
and 56 57 of this Annual Report.

Commercial paper and other borrowed funds  
The Firm utilizes commercial paper and other
borrowed funds as part of its liquidity management
activities to meet short-term funding needs, and in
connection with a TSS liquidity management product
whereby excess client funds, are transferred into
commercial paper overnight sweep accounts. The
increase in other borrowed funds was predominantly
due to advances from Federal Home Loan Banks of
$70.2 billion (net of maturities of $10.4 billion)
that were assumed as part of the Washington Mutual
transaction and nonrecourse advances from the
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston ( FRBB ) to fund
purchases of asset-backed commercial paper from money market mutual
funds, and other borrowings from the Federal
Reserve under the Term Auction Facility program.
For additional information on the Firm s Liquidity
Risk Management and other borrowed funds, see pages
76 80 and Note 21 on page 190 of this Annual
Report.

Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities  
The Firm utilizes long-term debt and trust
preferred capital debt securities to provide
cost-effective and diversified sources of funds and
as critical components of the Firm s liquidity and
capital management. Long-term debt and trust
preferred capital debt securities increased from
December 31, 2007, predominantly due to debt
assumed in both the Bear Stearns merger and the
Washington Mutual transaction, and debt issuances
of $20.8 billion, which are guaranteed by the FDIC
under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program
(the  TLG Program ). These increases were partially
offset by net maturities and redemptions, including
IB structured notes, the issuances of which are
generally client-driven. For additional information
on the Firm s long-term debt activities, see the
Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages
76 80 and Note 23 on pages 191 192 of this Annual
Report.

Stockholders  equity  
The increase in total stockholders  equity from
December 31, 2007, was predominantly due to the
issuance of preferred and common equity securities
during 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008,
JPMorgan Chase participated in the Capital Purchase
Program and issued preferred stock and a warrant to
purchase common stock to the U.S. Treasury,
resulting in a $25.0 billion increase to
stockholders  equity. Additional preferred stock
issuances and a common stock issuance during 2008
increased equity by $19.3 billion. Equity from
issuances of stock awards under the Firm s employee
stock-based compensation plans, the Bear Stearns
merger, and net income for 2008 was more than
offset by the declaration of cash dividends and net
losses recorded within accumulated other
comprehensive income related to AFS securities and
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. For a
further discussion, see the Capital Management
section that follows, and Note 24 and Note 27 on
pages 193 194 and 196 197, respectively, of this
Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS

JPMorgan Chase is involved with several types
of off-balance sheet arrangements, including
special purpose entities ( SPEs ) and
lending-related financial instruments (e.g.,
commitments and guarantees).

Special-purpose entities 

The basic SPE structure involves a company
selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the
purchase of those assets by issuing securities to
investors in the form of commercial paper,
short-term asset-backed notes, medium-term notes
and other forms of interest. SPEs are generally
structured to insulate investors from claims on the
SPE s assets by creditors of other entities,
including the creditors of the seller of the
assets.

SPEs are an important part of the financial
markets, providing market liquidity by facilitating
investors  access to specific portfolios of assets
and risks. These arrangements are integral to the
markets for mortgage-backed securities, commercial
paper and other asset-backed securities.

JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity
for itself and its clients by securitizing
financial assets, and by creating investment
products for clients. The Firm is involved with
SPEs through multi-seller conduits and investor
intermediation activities, and as a result of its
loan securitizations, through qualifying special
purpose entities ( QSPEs ). This discussion focuses
mostly on multi-seller conduits and investor
intermediation. For a detailed discussion of all
SPEs with which the Firm is involved, and the
related accounting, see Note 1, Note 16 and Note 17
on pages 122 123, 168 176 and 177 186,
respectively of this Annual Report.

The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate,
against all SPE-related transactions and related
exposures, such as derivative transactions and
lending-related commitments and guarantees.

The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock
to support any SPE transaction, and its policies
require that transactions with SPEs be conducted
at arm s length and reflect market pricing.
Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase
employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with which
the Firm is involved where such investment would
violate the Firm s Code of Conduct. These rules
prohibit employees from self-dealing and acting on
behalf of the Firm in transactions with which they
or their family have any significant financial
interest.

Implications of a credit rating
downgrade to
JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A.  
For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm
could be required to provide funding if the
short-term credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., was downgraded below specific levels,
primarily  P-1 ,
 A-1  and  F1  for Moody s, Standard   Poor s and
Fitch,
respectively. The amount of these liquidity
commitments was $61.0 billion and $94.0 billion at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., were
downgraded, the Firm could be replaced by another
liquidity provider in lieu of providing funding
under the liquidity commitment, or in certain
circumstances,

the Firm could facilitate the sale or
refinancing of the assets in the SPE in order to
provide liquidity. These commitments are included
in other unfunded commitments to extend credit and
asset purchase agreements, as shown in the
Off-balance sheet lending-related financial
instruments and guarantees table on page 69 of this
Annual Report.

As noted above, the Firm is involved with three
types of SPEs. A summary of each type of SPE
follows.

Multi-seller conduits  
The Firm helps customers meet their financing needs
by providing access to the commercial paper markets
through variable interest entities ( VIEs ) known
as multi-seller conduits. Multi-seller conduit
entities are separate bankruptcy-remote entities
that purchase interests in, and make loans secured
by, pools of receivables and other financial assets
pursuant to agreements with customers of the Firm.
The conduits fund their purchases and loans through
the issuance of highly rated commercial paper to
third-party investors. The primary source of
repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flow
from the pools of assets. JPMorgan Chase receives
fees related to the structuring of multi-seller
conduit transactions and receives compensation from
the multi-seller conduits for its role as
administrative agent, liquidity provider, and
provider of program-wide credit enhancement.

Investor intermediation  
As a financial intermediary, the Firm creates
certain types of VIEs and also structures
transactions, typically derivative structures, with
these VIEs to meet investor needs. The Firm may
also provide liquidity and other support. The risks
inherent in derivative instruments or liquidity
commitments are managed similarly to other credit,
market and liquidity risks to which the Firm is
exposed. The principal types of VIEs the Firm uses
in these structuring activities are municipal bond
vehicles, credit-linked note vehicles and
collateralized debt obligation vehicles.

Loan securitizations  
JPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety of
loans, including residential mortgages, credit
cards, automobile, student, and commercial loans
(primarily related to real estate). JPMorgan
Chase-sponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as
part of the securitization process. These SPEs are
structured to meet the definition of a QSPE (as
discussed in Note 1 on page 122 of this Annual
Report); accordingly, the assets and liabilities of
securitization-related QSPEs are not reflected on
the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets (except for
retained interests, as described below). The
primary purpose of these vehicles is to meet
investor needs and generate liquidity for the Firm
through the
sale of loans to the QSPEs. These QSPEs are
financed through the issuance of fixed or
floating-rate asset-backed securities that are sold
to third-party investors or held by the Firm.

Consolidation and consolidation sensitivity analysis on capital  
For more information regarding these programs and
the Firm s other SPEs, as well as the Firm s
consolidation analysis for these programs, see Note
16 and Note 17 on pages 168 176 and 177 186,
respectively, of this Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Special-purpose entities revenue  
The following table summarizes certain revenue
information related to consolidated and
nonconsolidated VIEs and QSPEs with which the Firm
has significant involvement. The revenue reported
in the table below primarily represents contractual
servicing and credit fee income (i.e., for income
from acting as administrator, structurer, liquidity
provider). It does not include mark-to-market gains
and losses from changes in the fair value of
trading positions (such as derivative transactions)
entered into with VIEs. Those gains and losses are
recorded in principal transactions revenue.

Revenue from VIEs and QSPEs 

(a) 
       
     Includes revenue associated with consolidated VIEs and significant nonconsolidated
VIEs. 

(b) 
       
     Excludes the markdown on subprime CDO assets that was recorded in principal
transactions revenue in 2007. 

(c) 
       
     Excludes servicing revenue from loans sold to and securitized
by third parties. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. 

American Securitization Forum subprime
adjustable rate mortgage loans modifications  
In December 2007, the American Securitization Forum
( ASF ) issued the  Streamlined Foreclosure and
Loss Avoidance Framework for Securitized Subprime
Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans  ( the Framework ).
The Framework provides guidance for servicers to
streamline evaluation procedures of borrowers with
certain subprime adjustable rate mortgage ( ARM )
loans to more efficiently provide modification of
such loans with terms that are more appropriate for
the individual needs of such borrowers. The
Framework applies to all first-lien subprime ARM
loans that have a fixed rate of interest for an
initial period of 36 months or less; are included
in
securitized pools; were originated between January
1, 2005, and July 31, 2007; and have an initial
interest rate reset date between January 1, 2008,
and July 31, 2010. The Framework categorizes the
population of ASF Framework Loans into three
segments. Segment 1 includes loans where the
borrower is current and likely to be able to
refinance into any available mortgage product.
Segment 2 includes loans where the borrower is
current, unlikely to be able to refinance into any
readily available mortgage industry product and
meets certain defined criteria. Segment 3 includes
loans where the borrower is not current, as
defined, and does not meet the criteria for
Segments 1 or 2.
JPMorgan Chase adopted the Framework during the
first quarter of 2008. For those AFS Framework
Loans serviced by the Firm and owned by
Firm-sponsored QSPEs, the Firm modified principal
amounts of $1.7 billion of Segment 2 subprime
mortgages during the year ended December 31, 2008.
The following table presents selected information
relating to the principal amount of Segment 3
loans for the year ended December 31, 2008, including those that
have been modified, subjected to other loss mitigation activities or
have been prepaid by the borrower.

For additional discussion of the Framework,
see Note 16 on page 176 of this Annual Report.

Off-balance sheet lending-related financial
instruments and guarantees 

JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related
financial instruments (e.g., commitments and
guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its
customers. The contractual amount of these
financial instruments represents the maximum
possible credit risk should the counterparty draw
upon the commitment or the Firm be required to
fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and
the counterparty subsequently fail to perform
according to the terms of the contract. These
commitments and guarantees historically expire
without being drawn and even higher proportions
expire without a default. As a result, the total
contractual amount of these instruments is not, in
the Firm s view, representative of its actual
future credit exposure or funding requirements.
Further, certain commitments, primarily related to
consumer financings, are cancelable, upon notice,
at the option of the Firm. For further discussion
of lending-related commitments and guarantees and
the Firm s accounting for them, see
lending-related commitments in Credit Risk
Management on page 90 and Note 33 on pages
206 210 of this Annual Report.

Contractual cash obligations 

In the normal course of business, the Firm
enters into various contractual obligations that
may require future cash payments. Commitments for
future cash expenditures primarily include
contracts to purchase
future services and capital expenditures related to
real estate related obligations and equipment.

The accompanying table summarizes, by remaining
maturity, JPMorgan Chase s off-balance sheet
lending-related financial instruments and
significant contractual cash obligations at
December 31, 2008. Contractual purchases and
capital expenditures in the table below reflect
the minimum contractual obligation under legally
enforceable contracts with terms that are both
fixed and determinable. Excluded from the
following table are a number of obligations to be
settled in cash, primarily in under one year.
These obligations are reflected on the Firm s
Consolidated Balance Sheets and include federal
funds purchased and securities loaned or sold
under repurchase agreements; commercial paper;
other borrowed funds; purchases of debt and equity
instruments; derivative payables; and certain
purchases of instruments that resulted in
settlement failures. Also excluded are contingent
payments associated with certain acquisitions that
could not be estimated. For discussion regarding
long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt
securities, see Note 23 on pages 191 192 of this
Annual Report. For discussion regarding operating
leases, see Note 31 on page 201 of this Annual
Report.

Table of Contents   

The following table presents maturity information for off-balance sheet lending-related
financial instruments, guarantees and commitments.

Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees 

(a) 
       
     Includes credit card and home equity lending-related commitments of $623.7 billion
and $95.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008; and $714.8 billion and $74.2
billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007. These amounts for credit card and home equity
lending-related commitments represent the total available credit for these products. The
Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all available lines of credit for
these products will be utilized at the same time. The Firm can reduce or cancel these
lines of credit by providing the borrower prior notice or, in some cases, without notice
as permitted by law. 

(b) 
       
     Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $36.3 billion and $38.4 billion
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are not legally binding. In regulatory
filings with the Federal Reserve, unused advised lines are not reportable. See the
Glossary of terms, on page 218 of this Annual Report, for the Firm s definition of advised
lines of credit. 

(c) 
       
     Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $28.3 billion at
both December 31, 2008 and 2007. 

(d) 
       
     Excludes unfunded commitments to third-party private equity funds of $1.4 billion
and $881 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Also excluded unfunded
commitments for other equity investments of $1.0 billion and $903 million at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(e) 
       
     Includes commitments to investment and noninvestment grade counterparties in
connection with leveraged acquisitions of $3.6 billion and $8.2 billion at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(f) 
       
     Largely represents asset purchase agreements to the Firm s administered
multi-seller, asset-backed commercial paper conduits. The maturity is based upon the
weighted-average life of the underlying assets in the SPE, which are based upon the
remainder of each conduit transaction s committed liquidity plus either the expected
weighted average life of the assets should the committed liquidity expire without renewal,
or the expected time to sell the underlying assets in the securitization market. It also
includes $96 million and $1.1 billion of asset purchase agreements to other third-party
entities at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(g) 
       
     JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $31.0 billion and $31.5 billion of
these arrangements at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Prior periods have been
revised to conform to the current presentation. 

(h) 
       
     Includes unissued standby letters of credit commitments of $39.5 billion and $50.7
billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(i) 
       
     Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification
agreements was $170.1 billion and $390.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Securities lending collateral comprises primarily cash, securities issued by
governments that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
 and U.S. government agencies. 

(j) 
       
     Represents notional amounts of derivatives qualifying as guarantees. For further
discussion of guarantees, see Note 33 on pages 206 210 of this Annual Report. 

(k) 
       
     Included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in beneficial interests issued by
consolidated variable interest entities. 

(l) 
       
     Includes noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment used primarily
for banking purposes and for energy-related tolling service agreements. Excludes the
benefit of noncancelable sublease rentals of $2.3 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(m) 
       
     Includes deferred annuity contracts. Excludes the $1.3 billion discretionary
contribution to the Firm s U.S. defined benefit pension plan that was made on January 15,
2009 (for further discussion, see Note 9 on pages 149 155), and contributions to the U.S.
and non-U.S. other postretirement benefits plans, if any, as these contributions are not
reasonably estimable at this time. Also excluded are unrecognized tax benefits of $5.9
billion and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, as the timing and
amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

The Firm s capital management framework is
intended to ensure that there is capital sufficient
to support the underlying risks of the Firm s
business activities and to maintain
 well-capitalized  status under regulatory
requirements. In addition, the Firm holds capital
above these requirements in amounts deemed
appropriate to achieve the Firm s regulatory and
debt rating objectives. The process of assigning
equity to the lines of business is integrated into
the Firm s capital framework and is overseen by the
ALCO.

Line of business equity 

The Firm s framework for allocating capital is
based upon the following objectives:

integrate firmwide capital management activities with capital management activities
within each of the lines of business 

measure performance consistently across all lines of business 

provide comparability with peer firms for each of the lines of business 

Equity for a line of business represents the amount
the Firm believes the business would require if it
were operating independently, incorporating
sufficient capital to address economic risk
measures, regulatory capital requirements and
capital levels for similarly rated peers. Capital
is also allocated to each line of business for,
among other things, goodwill and other intangibles
associated with acquisitions effected by the line
of business. Return on common equity is measured
and internal targets for expected returns are
established as a key measure of a business
segment s performance.

Relative to 2007, line of business equity increased
during 2008, reflecting growth across the
businesses. In addition, at the end of the third
quarter of 2008, equity was increased for each line
of business in anticipation of the future
implementation of the new Basel II capital rules.
For further details on these rules, see Basel II on
page 72 of this Annual Report. Finally, during
2008, capital allocated to RFS, CS, and CB was
increased as a result of the Washington Mutual
transaction; capital allocated to AM was increased
due to the Bear Stearns merger and the purchase of
the additional equity interest in Highbridge; and
capital allocated to IB was increased due to the
Bear Stearns merger.

In accordance with SFAS 142, the lines of
business perform the required goodwill impairment
testing. For a further discussion of goodwill and
impairment testing, see Critical Accounting
Estimates Used by the Firm and Note 18 on pages
107 111 and 186 189, respectively, of this
Annual Report.

Economic risk capital 

JPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy
relative to the risks underlying the Firm s
business activities, utilizing internal
risk-assessment methodologies. The Firm assigns
economic capital primarily based upon four risk
factors: credit risk, market risk, operational risk
and private equity risk. In 2008, the growth in
economic risk capital was driven by higher credit
risk capital, which was increased primarily due to
a combination of higher derivative exposure, a
weakening credit environment, and asset growth
related to the Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual
transactions.

(a) 
       
     Reflects additional capital required, in the Firm s view, to meet its regulatory
and debt rating objectives. 

Table of Contents   

Credit risk capital  
Credit risk capital is estimated separately for the
wholesale businesses (IB, CB, TSS and AM) and
consumer businesses (RFS and CS).

Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale
credit portfolio is defined in terms of unexpected
credit losses, both from defaults and declines in
the portfolio value due to credit deterioration,
measured over a one-year period at a confidence
level consistent with an  AA  credit rating
standard. Unexpected losses are losses in excess of
those for which provisions for credit losses are
maintained. The capital methodology is based upon
several principal drivers of credit risk: exposure
at default (or loan-equivalent amount), default
likelihood, credit spreads, loss severity and
portfolio correlation.

Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is
based upon product and other relevant risk
segmentation. Actual segment level default and
severity experience are used to estimate unexpected
losses for a one-year horizon at a confidence level
consistent with an  AA  credit rating standard.
Statistical results for certain segments or
portfolios are adjusted to ensure that capital is
consistent with external benchmarks, such as
subordination levels on market transactions or
capital held at representative monoline
competitors, where appropriate.

Market risk capital  
The Firm calculates market risk capital guided by
the principle that capital should reflect the risk
of loss in the value of portfolios and financial
instruments caused by adverse movements in market
variables, such as interest and foreign exchange
rates, credit spreads, securities prices and
commodities prices. Daily Value-at-Risk ( VaR ),
biweekly stress-test results and other factors are
used to determine appropriate capital levels. The
Firm allocates market risk capital to each business
segment according to a formula that weights that
segment s VaR and stress-test exposures. See Market
Risk Management on pages 99 104 of this Annual
Report for more information about these market risk
measures.

Operational risk capital  
Capital is allocated to the lines of business for
operational risk using a risk-based capital
allocation methodology which estimates operational
risk on a bottom-up basis. The operational risk
capital model is based upon actual losses and
potential scenario-based stress losses, with
adjustments to the capital calculation to reflect
changes in the quality of the control environment
or the use of risk-transfer products. The Firm
believes its model is consistent with the new Basel
II Framework.

Private equity risk capital  
Capital is allocated to privately and publicly held
securities, third-party fund investments and
commitments in the private equity portfolio to
cover the potential loss associated with a decline
in equity markets and related asset devaluations.
In addition to negative market fluctuations,
potential losses in private equity investment
portfolios can be magnified by liquidity risk. The
capital allocation for the private equity portfolio
is based upon measurement of the loss experience
suffered by the Firm and other market participants
over a prolonged period of adverse equity market
conditions.

Regulatory capital 

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (the  Federal Reserve ) establishes capital
requirements, including well-capitalized standards
for the consolidated financial holding company. The
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC )
establishes similar capital requirements and
standards for the Firm s national banks, including
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A.

The Federal Reserve granted the Firm, for a period
of 18
months following the Bear Stearns merger, relief up
to a certain specified amount and subject to certain
conditions from the Federal Reserve s risk-based
capital and leverage requirements with respect to
Bear Stearns  risk-weighted assets and other
exposures acquired. The amount of such relief is
subject to reduction by one-sixth each quarter
subsequent to the merger and expires on October 1,
2009. The OCC granted JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
similar relief from its risk-based capital and
leverage requirements.

JPMorgan Chase maintained a well-capitalized
position, based upon Tier 1 and Total capital
ratios at December 31, 2008 and 2007, as indicated
in the tables below. For more information, see
Note 30 on pages 200 201 of this Annual Report.

Risk-based capital components and assets 

(a) 
       
     The FASB has been deliberating certain amendments to both
SFAS 140 and FIN 46R that may impact the accounting for
transactions that involve QSPEs and VIEs. Based on the provisions of
the current proposal and the Firm's interpretation of the proposal,
the Firm estimates that the impact of consolidation could be up to
$70 billion of credit card receivables, $40 billion of
assets related to Firm-sponsored multi-seller conduits, and
$50 billion of other loans (including residential mortgages);
the decrease in the Tier 1 capital ratio could be approximately
80 basis points. The ultimate impact could differ significantly
due to the FASB's continuing deliberations on the final requirements
of the rule and market conditions. 

Tier 1 capital was $136.1 billion at December
31, 2008, compared with $88.7 billion at December
31, 2007, an increase of $47.4 billion.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

The following table presents the changes in
Tier 1 capital for the year ended December 31,
2008.

Additional information regarding the Firm s
capital ratios and the federal regulatory capital
standards to which it is subject, and the capital
ratios for the Firm s significant banking
subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, are
presented in Note 30 on pages 200 201 of this
Annual Report.

Capital Purchase Program  
Pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, on
October 28, 2008, the Firm issued to the U.S.
Treasury, for total proceeds of $25.0 billion,
(i)
2.5 million shares of Series K Preferred Stock, and
(ii) a Warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 shares
of the Firm s common stock, at an exercise price of
$42.42 per share, subject to certain antidilution
and other adjustments. The Series K Preferred Stock
qualifies as Tier 1 capital.

The Series K Preferred Stock bears cumulative
dividends at a rate of 5% per year for the first
five years and 9% per year thereafter. The Series K Preferred
Stock ranks equally with the Firm s existing 6.15%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 
5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 
5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 
Fixed-to-Floating Rate Noncumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, Series  and 8.63%
Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series
J, in terms of dividend payments and upon
liquidation of the Firm.

Any accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series K
Preferred Stock must be fully paid before dividends
may be declared or paid on stock ranking junior or
equally with the Series K Preferred Stock. Pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, until October 28, 2011, the U.S. Treasury s consent
 is required for any increase in dividends on the Firm s common
stock from the amount of the last quarterly stock dividend declared
by the Firm prior to October 14, 2008, unless the Series K
Preferred Stock is redeemed in whole before then, or the U.S.
Treasury has transferred all of the Series K Preferred Stock it
owns to third parties.

The Firm may not repurchase or redeem any common
stock or other equity securities of the Firm, or
any trust preferred securities issued by the Firm
or any of its affiliates, without the prior
consent of the U.S. Treasury (other than (i)
repurchases of the Series K Preferred Stock and
(ii) repurchases of junior preferred shares or
common stock in connection with any employee
benefit plan in the ordinary course of business
consistent with past practice).

Basel II  
The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted
by the U.S. federal banking agencies follow the
Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision. In 2004, the Basel Committee published
a revision to the Accord ( Basel II ). The goal of
the new Basel II Framework is to provide more
risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and
promote enhanced risk management practices among
large, internationally active banking
organizations. U.S. banking regulators published a
final Basel II rule in December 2007, which will
require JPMorgan Chase to implement Basel II at the
holding company level, as well as at certain of its
key U.S. bank subsidiaries.

Prior to full implementation of the new Basel II
Framework, JPMorgan Chase will be required to
complete a qualification period of four consecutive
quarters during which it will need to demonstrate
that it meets the requirements of the new rule to
the satisfaction of its primary U.S. banking
regulators. The U.S. implementation timetable
consists of the qualification period, starting any
time between April 1, 2008, and April 1, 2010,
followed by a minimum transition period of three
years. During the transition period, Basel II
risk-based capital requirements cannot fall below
certain floors based on current ( Basel l )
regulations. JPMorgan Chase expects to be in
compliance with all relevant Basel II rules within
the established timelines. In addition, the Firm
has adopted, and will continue to adopt, based upon
various established timelines, Basel II in certain
non-U.S. jurisdictions, as required.

Broker-dealer regulatory capital  
JPMorgan Chase s principal U.S. broker-dealer
subsidiaries are J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
( JPMorgan Securities ) and J.P. Morgan Clearing
Corp. (formerly known as Bear Stearns Securities
Corp.). JPMorgan Securities and J.P. Morgan
Clearing Corp. are each subject to Rule 15c3-1
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Net
Capital Rule ). JPMorgan Securities and J.P. Morgan
Clearing Corp. are also registered as futures
commission merchants and subject to Rule 1.17
under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
( CFTC ).

JPMorgan
Securities and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. have elected to compute
their minimum net capital requirements in accordance with
the  Alternative Net Capital Requirement  of the Net
Capital Rule. At December 31, 2008, JPMorgan
Securities  net capital, as defined by the Net
Capital Rule, of $7.2 billion exceeded the minimum
requirement by $6.6 billion. In addition to its net
capital requirements, JPMorgan Securities is
required to

Table of Contents   

hold tentative net capital in excess of $1.0
billion and is also required to notify the
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) in the
event that tentative net capital is less than $5.0
billion in accordance with the market and credit
risk standards of Appendix E of the
Net Capital Rule. As of December 31, 2008, JPMorgan
Securities had tentative net capital in excess of
the minimum and the notification requirements. On
October 1, 2008, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. merged
with and into Bear, Stearns   Co. Inc., and the
surviving entity changed its name to J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc.

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp., a subsidiary of
JPMorgan Securities provides clearing and
settlement services. At December 31, 2008, J.P.
Morgan Clearing Corp. s net capital, as defined by
the Net Capital Rule, of $4.7 billion exceeded the
minimum requirement by $3.3 billion.

Dividends 

On
February 23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the
Firm s quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 per
share, effective for the dividend payable April 30, 2009 to
shareholders of record on April 6, 2009. JPMorgan Chase declared
quarterly cash dividends on its commons stock in the amount of $0.38
for each quarter of 2008 and the second, third and fourth quarters of
2007, and $0.34 per share for the first quarter of 2007 and for each
quarter of 2006.

The Firm s common stock dividend policy
reflects JPMorgan Chase s earnings outlook, desired
dividend payout ratios, need to maintain an
adequate capital level and alternative investment
opportunities. The Firm s ability
to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. For
information regarding such restrictions, see page
72 and Note 24 and Note 29 on pages 193 194 and
199, respectively, of this Annual Report and for additional
information regarding the reduction of the dividend, see page 32.

The following table shows the common dividend
payout ratio based upon reported net income.

Common dividend payout ratio 

Issuance 

The Firm issued $6.0 billion and $1.8 billion
of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock on April
23, 2008, and August 21, 2008, respectively.
Pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, on
October 28, 2008, the Firm issued to the U.S.
Treasury $25.0 billion of cumulative preferred
stock and a warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697
shares of the Firm s common stock. For additional
information regarding preferred stock, see Note 24
on pages 193 194 of this Annual Report.

On September 30, 2008, the Firm issued $11.5
billion, or 284 million shares, of common stock at
$40.50 per share. For additional information
regarding common stock, see Note 25 on pages
194 195 of this Annual Report.

Stock repurchases 

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the
Firm did not repurchase any shares of its common
stock. During 2007, under the respective stock
repurchase programs then in effect, the Firm
repurchased 168 million shares for $8.2 billion at
an average price per share of $48.60.

The Board of Directors approved in April 2007, a
stock
repurchase program that authorizes the repurchase
of up to $10.0 billion of the Firm s common shares,
which superseded an $8.0 billion stock repurchase
program approved in 2006. The $10.0 billion
authorization includes shares to be repurchased to
offset issuances under the Firm s employee
stock-based plans. The actual number of shares that
may be repurchased is subject to various factors,
including market conditions; legal considerations
affecting the amount and timing of repurchase
activity; the Firm s capital position (taking into
account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital
generation; and alternative potential investment
opportunities. The repurchase program does not
include specific price targets or timetables; may
be executed through open market purchases or
privately negotiated transactions, or utilizing
Rule 10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any
time. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm
to repurchase shares during periods when it would
not otherwise be repurchasing common stock   for
example, during internal trading  black-out
periods.  All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan
must be made according to a predefined plan that is
established when the Firm is not aware of material
nonpublic information.

As of December 31, 2008, $6.2 billion of
authorized repurchase capacity remained under
the current stock repurchase program.

For a discussion of restrictions on stock
repurchases, see Capital Purchase Program on page
72 and Note 24 on pages 193 194 of this Annual
Report.

For additional information regarding repurchases of
the Firm s equity securities, see Part II, Item 5,
Market for registrant s common equity, related
stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity
securities, on page 17 of JPMorgan Chase s 2008
Form 10-K.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

RISK MANAGEMENT

Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase s
business activities. The Firm s risk management
framework and governance structure are intended to
provide comprehensive controls and ongoing
management of the major risks inherent in its
business activities. The Firm s ability to properly
identify, measure, monitor and report risk is
critical to both its soundness and profitability.

Risk identification: The Firm s exposure to risk through its daily business
dealings, including lending, trading and capital markets activities, is identified and
aggregated through the Firm s risk management infrastructure. In addition, individuals who
manage risk positions, particularly those positions that are complex, are responsible for
identifying and estimating potential losses that could arise from specific or unusual
events, that may not be captured in other models, and those risks are communicated to
senior management. 

Risk measurement: The Firm measures risk using a variety of methodologies, including
calculating probable loss, unexpected loss and value-at-risk, and by conducting stress
tests and making comparisons to external benchmarks. Measurement models and related
assumptions are routinely reviewed with the goal of ensuring that the Firm s risk
estimates are reasonable and reflect underlying positions. 

Risk monitoring/control: The Firm s risk management policies and procedures
incorporate risk mitigation strategies and include approval limits by customer, product,
industry, country and business. These limits are monitored on a daily, weekly and monthly
basis, as appropriate. 

Risk reporting: Risk reporting is executed on a line of business and consolidated
basis. This information is reported to management on a daily, weekly and monthly basis, as
appropriate. There are eight major risk types identified in the business activities of the
Firm: liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, private equity risk,
operational risk, legal and fiduciary risk, and reputation risk. 

Risk governance  
The Firm s risk governance structure starts with
each line of business being responsible for
managing its own risks. Each line of business works
closely with Risk Management through its own risk
committee and, in most cases, its own chief risk
officer to manage risk. Each line of business risk
committee is responsible for decisions regarding
the business  risk strategy, policies and controls.

Overlaying the line of business risk management are
four corporate functions with risk
management related responsibilities: Treasury, the
Chief Investment Office, Legal and Compliance and
Risk Management.

Risk Management is headed by the Firm s Chief Risk
Officer, who is a member of the Firm s Operating
Committee and who reports to the Chief Executive
Officer and the Board of Directors, primarily
through the Board s Risk Policy Committee. Risk
Management is responsible for providing a firmwide
function of risk management and controls. Within
Risk Management are units responsible for credit
risk, market risk, operational risk and private
equity risk, as well as Risk Management Services
and Risk Technology and Operations. Risk Management
Services is responsible for risk policy and
methodology, risk reporting and risk education; and
Risk Technology and Operations is responsible for
building
the information technology infrastructure used to
monitor and manage risk.

Treasury and the Chief Investment Office are
responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting
and managing the Firm s liquidity, interest rate
and foreign exchange risk.

Legal and Compliance has oversight for legal and fiduciary risk.

In addition to the risk committees of the lines of
business and the above-referenced corporate
functions, the Firm also has an Investment
Committee, ALCO and two other risk-related
committees, namely, the Risk Working Group and the
Markets Committee. The members of these committees
are composed of senior management of the Firm,
including representatives of line of business, Risk
Management, Finance and other senior executives.
Members of these risk committees meet frequently to
discuss a broad range of topics including, for
example, current market conditions and other
external events, current risk exposures and
concentrations to ensure that the impact of current
risk factors are considered broadly across the
Firm s businesses.

Table of Contents   

The Investment Committee oversees global
merger and acquisition activities undertaken by
JPMorgan Chase for its own account that fall
outside the scope of the Firm s private equity and
other principal finance activities.

The Asset-Liability Committee is responsible for
approving the Firm s liquidity policy, including
contingency funding planning and exposure to SPEs
(and any required liquidity support by the Firm of
such SPEs). The Asset-Liability Committee also
oversees the Firm s capital management and funds
transfer pricing policy (through which lines of
business  transfer  interest and foreign exchange
risk to Treasury in the Corporate/Private Equity
segment).

The Risk Working Group meets monthly to review
issues such as risk policy, risk methodology, Basel
II and regulatory issues and topics referred to it
by any line of business risk committee. The Markets
Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer,
meets at least weekly to review and determine appropriate
courses of action with respect to significant risk
matters, including but not limited to: limits;
credit, market and operational risk; large, high
risk transactions; and hedging strategies.

The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of
risk management, principally through the Board s
Risk Policy Committee and Audit Committee. The Risk
Policy Committee oversees senior management
risk-related responsibilities, including reviewing
management policies and performance against these
policies and related benchmarks. The Audit
Committee is responsible for oversight of
guidelines and policies that govern the process by
which risk assessment and management is undertaken.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews
with management the system of internal controls and
financial reporting that is relied upon to provide
reasonable assurance of compliance with the Firm s
operational risk management processes.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT

The ability to maintain a sufficient level
of liquidity is crucial to financial services
companies, particularly maintaining appropriate
levels of liquidity during periods of adverse
conditions. The Firm s funding strategy is to
ensure liquidity and diversity of funding sources
to meet actual and contingent liabilities through
both stable and adverse conditions.

JPMorgan Chase uses a centralized approach for
liquidity risk management. Global funding is
managed by Corporate Treasury, using regional
expertise as appropriate. Management believes that
a centralized framework maximizes liquidity access,
minimizes funding costs and permits identification
and coordination of global liquidity risk.

Recent events  
During the second half of 2008, global markets
exhibited extraordinary levels of volatility and
increasing signs of stress. Throughout this period,
access by market participants to the debt, equity,
and consumer loan securitization markets was
constrained and funding spreads widened sharply. In
response to strains in financial markets, U.S.
government and regulatory agencies introduced
various programs to inject liquidity into the
financial system. JPMorgan Chase participated in a
number of these programs, two of which were the
Capital Purchase Program and the FDIC s TLG
Program. On October 28, 2008, JPMorgan Chase issued
$25.0 billion of preferred stock as well as a
warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 shares of the
Firm s common stock to the U.S. Treasury under the
Capital Purchase Program, which enhanced the Firm s
capital and liquidity positions. In addition, on
December 4, 2008, JPMorgan Chase elected to
continue to participate in the FDIC s TLG Program,
which facilitated long-term debt issuances at rates
(including the guarantee fee charged by the FDIC)
more favorable than those for non-FDIC guaranteed
debt issuances. Under the TLG Program, the FDIC
guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of
JPMorgan Chase, and in return for the guarantees,
the FDIC is paid a fee based on the amount and
maturity of the debt. Under the TLG Program, the
FDIC will pay the unpaid principal and interest on
an FDIC-guaranteed debt instrument upon the uncured
failure of the participating entity to make a
timely payment of principal or interest in
accordance with the terms of the instrument. During
the fourth quarter of 2008, pursuant to the TLG
Program, the Firm issued $20.8 billion of bonds
guaranteed by the FDIC, further enhancing the
Firm s liquidity position. At December 31, 2008,
all of the FDIC-guaranteed debt
was outstanding and had a carrying value of $21.0
billion, net of hedges. In the interest of
promoting deposit stability, during the fourth
quarter, the FDIC also (i) temporarily increased,
through 2009, insurance coverage on bank deposits
to $250,000 per customer from $100,000 per
customer, and (ii) for qualified institutions who
participated in the TLG Program (such as the Firm),
provided full deposit insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts.

During the second half of 2008, the Firm s
deposits (excluding those assumed in connection
with the Washington Mutual transaction) increased
substantially, as the Firm benefited from the
heightened volatility and credit concerns
affecting the markets.

On May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase completed the
merger with Bear Stearns. Due to the structure of
the transaction and the de-risking of positions
over time, the merger with Bear Stearns had no
material impact on the Firm s liquidity. On
September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the
banking operations of Washington Mutual from the
FDIC. As part of the Washington Mutual transaction,
JPMorgan Chase assumed Washington Mutual s deposits
as well as its obligations to its credit card
securitization-related master trusts, covered
bonds, and liabilities to certain Federal Home Loan
Banks. The Washington Mutual transaction had an
insignificant impact on the Firm s overall
liquidity position.

Both S P and Moody s lowered the Firm s ratings one
notch on December 19, 2008 and January 15, 2009,
respectively. These rating actions did not have a
material impact on the cost or availability of
funding to the Firm. For a further discussion of
credit ratings, see the Credit Ratings caption of
this Liquidity Risk Management section on pages 79-80 of
this Annual Report.

Notwithstanding the market events during the latter
half of 2008, the Firm s liquidity position
remained strong based on its liquidity metrics as
of December 31, 2008. The Firm believes that its
unsecured and secured funding capacity is
sufficient to meet on- and off-balance sheet
obligations. JPMorgan Chase s long-dated funding,
including core liabilities, exceeded illiquid
assets. In addition, during the course of 2008, the
Firm raised funds at the parent holding company in
excess of its minimum threshold to cover its
obligations and those of its nonbank subsidiaries
that mature over the next 12 months.

Governance  
The Asset-Liability Committee approves and oversees
the execution of the Firm s liquidity policy and
contingency funding plan. Corporate Treasury
formulates the Firm s liquidity and contingency
planning strategies and is responsible for
measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the
Firm s liquidity risk profile.

Liquidity monitoring  
The Firm monitors liquidity trends, tracks
historical and prospective on- and off-balance
sheet liquidity obligations, identifies and
measures internal and external liquidity warning
signals to permit early detection of liquidity
issues, and manages contingency planning
(including identification and testing of various
company-specific and market-driven stress
scenarios). Various tools, which together
contribute to an overall firmwide liquidity
perspective, are used to monitor and manage
liquidity. Among others, these include: (i)
analysis of the timing of liquidity sources versus
liquidity uses (i.e., funding gaps) over periods
ranging from overnight to one year; (ii) management
of debt and capital issuances to ensure that the
illiquid portion of the balance sheet can be funded
by equity, long-term debt, trust preferred capital
debt securities and deposits the Firm believes to
be stable; and (iii) assessment of the Firm s
capacity to raise incremental unsecured and secured
funding.

Liquidity of the parent holding company and its
nonbank subsidiaries is monitored independently as
well as in conjunction with the liquidity

Table of Contents   

of the Firm s bank subsidiaries. At the parent
holding company level, long-term funding is managed
to ensure that the parent holding company has, at a
minimum, sufficient liquidity to cover its
obligations and those of its nonbank subsidiaries
within the next 12 months. For bank subsidiaries,
the focus of liquidity risk management is on
maintenance of unsecured and secured funding
capacity sufficient to meet on- and off-balance
sheet obligations.

A component of liquidity management is the Firm s
contingency funding plan. The goal of the plan is
to ensure appropriate liquidity during normal and
stress periods. The plan considers various
temporary and long-term stress scenarios where
access to unsecured funding is severely limited or
nonexistent, taking into account both on-and
off-balance sheet exposures, and separately
evaluates access to funds by the parent holding
company and the Firm s banks.

Funding 

Sources of funds  
The deposits held by the RFS, CB, TSS and AM lines
of business are a generally consistent source of
funding for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. As of
December 31, 2008, total deposits for the Firm were
$1.0 trillion, compared with $740.7 billion at
December 31, 2007. A significant portion of the
Firm s deposits are retail deposits, which are less
sensitive to interest rate changes or market
volatility and therefore are considered more stable
than market-based (i.e., wholesale) liability
balances. The Washington Mutual transaction added
approximately $159.9 billion of deposits to the
Firm, a significant majority of which are retail
deposits. In addition, through the normal course of
business, the Firm benefits from substantial
liability balances originated by RFS, CB, TSS and AM.
These franchise-generated liability balances
include deposits and funds that are swept to
on-balance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial
paper, federal funds purchased and securities
loaned or sold under repurchase agreements), a
significant portion of which are considered to be
stable and consistent sources of funding due to the
nature of the businesses from which
they are generated. For further discussions of
deposit and liability balance trends, see the
discussion of the results for the Firm s business
segments and the Balance sheet analysis on pages
42 60 and 64 66, respectively, of this Annual
Report.

Additional sources of funding include a variety of
unsecured short-and long-term instruments,
including federal funds purchased, certificates of
deposits, time deposits, bank notes, commercial
paper, long-term debt, trust preferred capital debt
securities, preferred stock and common stock.
Secured sources of funding include securities
loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, asset
securitizations, borrowings from the Federal
Reserve (including discount window borrowings, the
Primary Dealer Credit Facility and the Term Auction
Facility) and borrowings from the Chicago,
Pittsburgh and, as a result of the Washington
Mutual transaction, the San Francisco Federal Home
Loan Banks. However, the Firm does not view
borrowings from the Federal Reserve as a primary
means of funding the Firm.

Issuance  
Funding markets are evaluated on an ongoing basis
to achieve an appropriate global balance of
unsecured and secured funding at favorable rates.
Generating funding from a broad range of sources in
a variety of geographic locations enhances
financial flexibility and limits dependence on any
one source.

During 2008, JPMorgan Chase issued approximately
$42.6 billion of long-term debt for funding or
capital management purposes, including $20.8
billion of FDIC-guaranteed notes issued under the
TLG Program. The Firm also issued $28.0 billion of
IB structured notes, the issuances of which are
generally client-driven and not for funding or
capital management purposes, as the proceeds from
such transactions are generally used to purchase
securities to mitigate the risk associated with
structured note exposure. In addition, during the
year, the Firm issued $1.8 billion of trust
preferred capital debt securities. During the same
period, the Firm redeemed or had maturities of
$62.7 billion of securities, including $35.8
billion of IB structured notes.

Preferred stock issuances included $6.0 billion and
$1.8 billion of noncumulative perpetual preferred
stock issued on April 23 and August 21, 2008,
respectively, as well as preferred stock issued to
the U.S. Treasury on October 28, 2008, under the
Capital Purchase Program. In connection with
preferred stock issuance under the Capital Purchase
Program, the Firm also issued to the U.S. Treasury
on October 28, 2008, a warrant to purchase up to
88,401,697 shares of the Firm s common stock, at an
exercise price of $42.42 per share, subject to
certain antidilution and other adjustments. The
Firm has in the past, and may continue in the
future, to repurchase from time to time its debt or
trust preferred capital debt securities in open
market purchases or privately negotiated
transactions subject to regulatory and contractual
restrictions.

Finally, during 2008, the Firm securitized $21.4
billion of credit card loans. The ability to
securitize loans, and the associated gains on those
securitizations, are principally
dependent upon the credit quality and other
characteristics of the assets securitized as well
as upon prevailing market conditions. Given the
volatility and stress in the financial markets in
the second half of 2008, the Firm did not
securitize any residential mortgage loans, auto
loans or student loans during 2008.

Replacement Capital Covenants  
In connection with the issuance of certain of its
trust preferred capital debt securities and
noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, the Firm
entered into Replacement Capital Covenants ( RCCs )
granting certain rights to the holders of  covered
debt,  as defined in the RCCs, that prohibit the
repayment, redemption or purchase of the trust
preferred capital debt securities and noncumulative
perpetual preferred stock except, with limited
exceptions, to the extent that JPMorgan Chase has
received, in each such case, specified amounts of
proceeds from the sale of certain qualifying
securities. Currently the Firm s covered debt is
its 5.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest
Debentures, Series O, due in 2035. For more
information regarding these covenants, reference is
made to the respective RCCs entered into by the
Firm in connection with the issuances of such trust
preferred capital debt securities and noncumulative
perpetual

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

preferred stock, which are filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission under cover of
Forms 8-K.

Cash flows  
For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, cash and due from banks decreased $13.2
billion, $268 million, and increased
$3.7 billion, respectively. The following
discussion highlights the major activities and
transactions that affected JPMorgan Chase s cash
flows during 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities  
JPMorgan Chase s operating assets and liabilities
support the Firm s capital markets and lending
activities, including the origination or purchase
of loans initially designated as held-for-sale.
The operating assets and liabilities can vary
significantly in the normal course of business due
to the amount and timing of cash flows, which are
affected by client-driven activities, market
conditions and trading strategies. Management
believes cash flows from operations, available
cash balances and the Firm s ability to generate
cash through short-and long-term borrowings are
sufficient to fund the Firm s operating liquidity
needs.

For the year ended December 31, 2008, net cash
provided by operating activities was $23.1 billion,
while for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
2006, net cash used in operating activities was
$110.6 billion and $49.6 billion, respectively. In
2008, net cash generated from operating activities
was higher than net income,
largely as a result of adjustments for operating
items such as the provision for credit losses,
depreciation and amortization, stock-based
compensation, and certain other expense. During
2006, 2007 and 2008,
cash was used to fund loans held-for-sale,
primarily in IB and RFS. During 2008, proceeds
from sales of loans originated or purchased with an
initial intent to sell were slightly higher than
cash used to acquire such loans; but the cash flows
from these activities were at a significantly lower
level than for the same periods in 2007 and 2006 as
a result of current market conditions. In 2007 and
2006, cash used to acquire such loans was slightly
higher than proceeds from sales.

For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
net cash used in operating activities supported
growth in the Firm s lending and capital markets
activities. In 2007, when compared with 2006, there
was a significant decline in cash flows from IB
loan originations/purchases and sale/securitization
activities as a result of the difficult wholesale
securitization market and capital markets for
leveraged financings, which were affected by a
significant deterioration in liquidity in the
second half of 2007. Cash flows in 2007 associated
with RFS residential mortgage activities grew,
reflecting an increase in originations.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities  
The Firm s investing activities predominantly
include originating loans to be held for investment,
other receivables, the available-for-sale
investment portfolio and other short-term
investment vehicles. For the year ended December
31, 2008, net cash of $286.3 billion was used in
investing activities, primarily for: purchases of
investment securities in Corporate s AFS portfolio
to manage the Firm s exposure to interest

rate movements, as well as to make strategic
longer-term investments; increased deposits with
banks as the result of the availability of excess
cash for short-term investment opportunities
through inter-bank lending, and from deposits with
the Federal Reserve (which is now an investing
activity, reflecting a policy change of the Federal
Reserve to pay interest to depository institutions
on reserve balances); net additions to the
wholesale loan portfolio, from organic growth in
CB; additions to the consumer prime mortgage
portfolio as a result of the decision to retain,
rather than sell, new originations of nonconforming
prime mortgage loans; an increase in securities
purchased under resale agreements reflecting growth
in demand from clients for liquidity; and net
purchases of asset-backed commercial paper from
money market mutual funds in connection with a
temporary Federal Reserve Bank of Boston lending
facility. Partially offsetting these uses of cash
were proceeds from sales and maturities of AFS
securities; loan sales and credit card
securitization activities, which were at a lower
level than for the same periods in 2007 as a result
of the adverse market conditions that have
continued since the last half of 2007; and net cash
received from acquisitions and the sale of an
investment. Additionally, in June 2008, in
connection with the merger
with Bear Stearns, the Firm sold assets acquired
from Bear Stearns to the FRBNY and received cash
proceeds of $28.85 billion (for additional
information see Note 2 on page 123 128 of this
Annual Report).

For the year ended December 31, 2007, net cash of
$73.1 billion was used in investing activities,
primarily to fund purchases in the AFS securities
portfolio to manage the Firm s exposure to interest
rate movements; net additions to the wholesale
retained loan portfolios in IB, CB and AM, mainly
as a result of business growth; a net increase in
the consumer retained loan portfolio, primarily
reflecting growth in RFS in home equity loans and
net additions to RFS  subprime mortgage loans
portfolio (which was affected by management s
decision in the third quarter to retain (rather
than sell) new subprime mortgages), and growth in
prime mortgage loans originated by RFS and AM that
cannot be sold to U.S. government agencies or U.S.
government-sponsored enterprises; and increases in
securities purchased under resale agreements as a
result of a higher level of cash that was available
for short-term investment opportunities in
connection with the Firm s efforts to build
liquidity. These net uses of cash were partially
offset by cash proceeds received from sales and
maturities of AFS securities; and credit card,
residential mortgage, student and wholesale loan
sales and securitization activities, which grew in
2007 despite the difficult conditions in the credit
markets.

For the year ended December 31, 2006, net cash of
$99.6 billion was used in investing activities. Net
cash was invested to fund net additions to the
retained wholesale loan portfolio, mainly resulting
from capital markets activity in IB leveraged
financings; increases in CS loans reflecting strong
organic growth; net additions in retail home equity
loans; the acquisition of private-label credit card
portfolios from Kohl s, BP and Pier 1 Imports,
Inc.; the acquisition of Collegiate Funding
Services; and purchases of AFS securities in
connection with repositioning the portfolio in
response to changes in interest rates. These uses
of cash were partially offset by cash proceeds
provided from credit card, residential mortgage,
auto and

Table of Contents   

wholesale loan sales and securitization
activities; sales and maturities of AFS
securities; the net decline in auto loans, which
was caused partially by management s decision to
de-emphasize vehicle leasing; and the sale of the
insurance business at the beginning of the second
quarter.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities  
The Firm s financing activities primarily reflect
cash flows related to customer deposits, issuances
of long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt
securities, and issuances of preferred and common
stock. In 2008, net cash provided by financing
activities was $250.5 billion due to: growth in
wholesale deposits, in particular, interest-and
noninterest-bearing deposits in TSS (driven by both
new and existing clients, and due to the deposit
inflows related to the heightened volatility and
credit
concerns affecting the global markets), as well as
increases in AM and CB (due to organic growth);
proceeds of
$25.0 billion from the issuance of preferred stock
and a warrant to the U.S. Treasury under the
Capital Purchase Program; additional issuances of
common stock and preferred stock used for general
corporate purposes; an increase in other borrowings
due to nonrecourse secured advances from the
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston to fund the purchase
of asset-backed commercial paper from money market
mutual funds; increases in federal funds purchased
and securities loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements in connection with higher short-term
requirements to fulfill client demand for liquidity
and finance the Firm s AFS securities inventory;
and a net increase in long-term debt due to a
combination of non-FDIC guaranteed debt and trust
preferred capital debt securities issued prior to
December
4, 2008, and the issuance of $20.8 billion of
FDIC-guaranteed long-term debt issued during the
fourth quarter of 2008. The fourth-quarter
FDIC-guaranteed issuance was offset partially by
maturities of non-FDIC guaranteed long-term debt
during the same period. The increase in long-term
debt and trust preferred capital debt securities
was used primarily to fund certain illiquid assets
held by the parent holding company and build
liquidity. Cash was also used to pay dividends on
common and preferred stock. The Firm did not
repurchase any shares of its common stock in the
open market during 2008 in order to maintain its
capital objectives.

In 2007, net cash provided by financing activities
was $183.0 billion due to a net increase in
wholesale deposits from growth in business volumes,
in particular, interest-bearing deposits at TSS, AM
and CB;

net issuances of long-term debt and trust preferred
capital debt securities primarily to fund certain
illiquid assets held by the parent holding company
and build liquidity, and by IB from client-driven
structured notes transactions; and growth in
commercial paper issuances and other borrowed funds
due to growth in the volume of liability balances
in sweep accounts in TSS and CB, and to fund
trading positions and to further build liquidity.
Cash was used to repurchase common stock and pay
dividends on common stock, including an increase in
the quarterly dividend in the second quarter of
2007.

In 2006, net cash provided by financing activities
was $152.7 billion due to net cash received from
growth in deposits, reflecting new retail account
acquisitions and the ongoing expansion of the
retail branch distribution network; higher
wholesale business volumes; increases in securities
sold under repurchase agreements to fund trading
positions and higher AFS securities positions; and
net issuances of long-term debt and trust preferred
capital debt securities. The net cash provided was
offset partially by the payment of cash dividends
on stock and common stock repurchases.

Credit ratings  
The cost and availability of financing are
influenced by credit ratings. Reductions in these
ratings could have an adverse effect on the Firm s
access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of
funds, trigger additional collateral or funding
requirements and decrease the number of investors
and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm.
Additionally, the Firm s funding requirements for
VIEs and other third-party commitments may be
adversely affected. For additional information on
the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the
funding requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives
and collateral agreements, see Special-purpose
entities on pages 67 68 and Ratings profile of
derivative receivables marked to market ( MTM ) on
page 88 of this Annual Report.

Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings
include a stable and diverse earnings stream,
strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and
risk management controls, diverse funding sources,
and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures.

The credit ratings of the parent holding company and each of the Firm s significant banking
subsidiaries as of January 15, 2009, were as follows.

Short-term debt 
       
     Senior long-term debt 

Moody s 
       
     S P 
       
     Fitch 
       
     Moody s 
       
     S P 
       
     Fitch 

JPMorgan Chase   Co.

P-1 

A-1  

F1  

Aa3 

A   

AA- 

JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A.

P-1 

A-1  

F1  

Aa1 
       
     AA- 
       
     AA- 

Chase Bank USA, N.A.

P-1 

A-1  

F1  

Aa1 
       
     AA- 
       
     AA- 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

On December 19, 2008, S P lowered the senior
long-term debt ratings on JPMorgan Chase   Co. and
its principal bank subsidiaries one notch from
 AA-  and  AA , respectively; lowered the
short-term debt rating of JPMorgan Chase   Co. from
 A-1   and affirmed the short-term debt ratings of
its principal bank subsidiaries. These actions were
primarily the result of S P s belief that the
Firm s earnings are likely to decline over the next
couple of years in response to increasing loan
losses associated with the Firm s exposure to
consumer lending, as well as declining business
volumes. S P s current outlook is negative. On
January 15, 2009, Moody s lowered the senior
long-term debt ratings on JPMorgan Chase   Co. and
its principal bank subsidiaries from  Aa2  and
 Aaa , respectively. These actions were primarily
the result of Moody s view that, in the current
economic environment, the Firm may experience
difficulties generating capital and could face
significant earnings pressure. Moody s affirmed the
short-term debt ratings of JPMorgan Chase  

Co. and its principal bank subsidiaries at  P-1 .
Moody s also revised the outlook to stable from
negative due to the Firm s strong capital ratios,
significant loan loss reserves, and strong
franchise. Ratings from Fitch on JPMorgan Chase  
Co. and its principal bank subsidiaries remained
unchanged from December 31, 2007, and Fitch s
outlook remained stable. The recent rating actions
by S P and Moody s did not have a material impact
on the cost or availability of the Firm s funding. If the
Firm s senior long-term debt ratings were
downgraded by one additional notch, the Firm
believes the incremental cost of funds or loss of funding would be
manageable within the context of current market conditions and the
Firm s liquidity resources. JPMorgan Chase s unsecured
debt, other than in certain cases the IB structured notes, does not contain requirements that would call
for an acceleration of payments, maturities or
changes in the structure of the existing debt, nor
contain collateral provisions or the creation of an
additional financial obligation, based on
unfavorable changes in the Firm s credit ratings,
financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock
price. To the extent any IB structured notes do contain such
provisions, the Firm believes that, in the event of an acceleration
of payments or maturities or provision of collateral, the securities
used by the Firm to risk manage such structured notes, together with
other liquidity resources, are expected to generate funds sufficient
to satisfy the Firm s obligations.

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT

Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or
counterparty default. The Firm provides credit (for
example, through loans, lending-related commitments
and derivatives) to a variety of customers, from
large corporate and institutional clients to the
individual consumer. For the wholesale business,
credit risk management includes the distribution of
syndicated loans originated by the Firm into the
marketplace (primarily to IB clients), with
exposure held in the retained portfolio averaging
less than 10% of the total originated loans.
Wholesale loans generated by CB and AM are
generally retained on the balance sheet. With
regard to the consumer credit market, the Firm
focuses on creating a portfolio that is diversified
from both a product and a geographic perspective.
Loss mitigation strategies are being employed for all
home lending portfolios. These strategies include
rate reductions, principal forgiveness, forbearance
and other actions intended to minimize the economic
loss and avoid foreclosure. In the mortgage
business, originated loans are either retained in
the mortgage portfolio or securitized and sold to
U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises.

Credit risk organization  
Credit risk management is overseen by the Chief
Risk Officer and implemented within the lines of
business. The Firm s credit risk management
governance consists of the following functions:

establishing a comprehensive credit risk policy framework 

monitoring and managing credit risk across all portfolio segments, including
transaction and line approval 

assigning and managing credit authorities in connection with the approval of all
credit exposure 

managing criticized exposures 

calculating the allowance for credit losses and ensuring appropriate credit
risk-based capital management 

Risk identification  
The Firm is exposed to credit risk through lending
and capital markets activities. The credit risk
management organization works in partnership with the
business segments in identifying and aggregating
exposures across all lines of business.

Risk measurement  
To measure credit risk, the Firm employs several
methodologies for estimating the likelihood of
obligor or counterparty default. Methodologies for
measuring credit risk vary depending on several
factors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer
installment versus wholesale loan), risk
measurement parameters (e.g., delinquency status
and credit bureau score versus wholesale risk
rating) and risk management and collection
processes (e.g., retail collection center versus
centrally managed workout groups). Credit risk
measurement is based upon the amount of exposure
should the obligor or the counterparty default, the
probability of default and the loss severity given
a default event. Based upon these factors and
related market-based inputs, the Firm estimates
both probable and unexpected losses for the
wholesale and consumer portfolios. Probable losses,
reflected in the provision for credit losses, are
based primarily upon statistical estimates of
credit losses as a result of obligor or
counterparty default. However, probable losses are
not the sole indicators of risk. If losses were
entirely predictable, the probable loss rate could
be factored into pricing and covered as a normal
and recurring cost of doing business. Unexpected
losses, reflected in the allocation of credit risk
capital, represent the potential volatility of
actual losses relative to the probable level of
losses. Risk measurement for the wholesale
portfolio is assessed primarily on a risk-rated
basis; for the consumer portfolio, it is assessed
primarily on a credit-scored basis.

Table of Contents   

Risk-rated exposure  
For portfolios that are risk-rated (generally held
in IB, CB, TSS and AM), probable and unexpected
loss calculations are based upon estimates of
probability of default and loss given default.
Probability of default is the expected default
calculated on an obligor basis. Loss given default
is an estimate of losses given a default event and
takes into consideration collateral and structural
support for each credit facility. Calculations and
assumptions are based upon management information
systems and methodologies which are under continual
review. Risk ratings are assigned to differentiate
risk within the portfolio and are reviewed on an
ongoing basis by credit risk management and
revised, if needed, to reflect the borrowers 
current risk profiles and the related collateral
and structural positions.

Credit-scored exposure  
For credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS
and CS), probable loss is based upon a statistical
analysis of inherent losses over discrete periods
of time. Probable losses are estimated using
sophisticated portfolio modeling, credit scoring
and decision-support tools to project credit risks
and establish underwriting standards. In addition,
common measures of credit quality derived from
historical loss experience are used to predict
consumer losses. Other risk characteristics
evaluated include recent loss experience in the
portfolios, changes in origination sources,
portfolio seasoning, loss severity and underlying
credit practices, including charge-off policies.
These analyses are applied to the Firm s current
portfolios in order to estimate delinquencies and
severity of losses, which determine the amount of
probable losses. These factors and analyses are
updated at least on a quarterly basis or more
frequently as market conditions dictate.

Risk monitoring  
The Firm has developed policies and practices that
are designed to preserve the independence and
integrity of the approval and decision making of
extending credit and are intended to ensure credit
risks are assessed accurately, approved properly,
monitored regularly and managed actively at both
the transaction and portfolio levels. The policy
framework establishes credit approval authorities,
concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies,
portfolio review parameters and guidelines for
management of distressed exposure. Wholesale credit
risk is monitored regularly on both an aggregate
portfolio level and on an individual customer
basis. Management of the Firm s wholesale exposure
is accomplished through a number of means including
loan syndication and participations, loan sales,
securitizations, credit derivatives, use of master
netting agreements and collateral and other
risk-reduction techniques, which are further
discussed in the following risk sections. For
consumer credit risk, the key focus items are
trends and concentrations at the portfolio level,
whereby potential problems can be remedied through
changes in underwriting policies and portfolio
guidelines. Consumer Credit Risk Management
monitors trends against business expectations and
industry benchmarks.

Risk reporting  
To enable monitoring of credit risk and
decision-making, aggregate credit exposure, credit
quality forecasts, concentrations levels and risk
profile changes are reported regularly to senior
credit risk management. Detailed portfolio
reporting of industry, customer and geographic
concentrations occurs monthly, and the
appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses
is reviewed by senior management at least on a
quarterly basis. Through the risk reporting and
governance structure, credit risk trends and limit
exceptions are provided regularly to, and discussed
with, senior management, for further information,
see page 74 of this Annual Report.

2008 Credit risk overview  
During 2008, credit markets experienced
deterioration and increased defaults and downgrades
reflecting,
among other things, reduced liquidity. The
liquidity and credit crisis has adversely affected
many financial institutions, resulting in the
failure of some in both the U.S. and Europe, and
has impacted the functioning of credit markets,
particularly, the loan syndication and asset-backed
securitization markets. The Firm s credit portfolio
was affected by these market conditions and
experienced deteriorating credit quality,
especially in the latter part of the year,
generally consistent with the market. In 2008, for
the wholesale portfolio, criticized assets and NPAs
increased, from historical lows, 301% and 525%,
respectively, from the previous year. Charge-offs,
which typically lag other portfolio deterioration,
have increased from historical lows by 458% over
2007. The Firm has remained focused on aggressively
managing the portfolio, including ongoing, in-depth
reviews of credit quality, as well as of revisions
of industry, product and client concentrations.
Risk levels are adjusted as needed to reflect the
Firm s risk tolerance.
Underwriting standards across all areas of lending
have been strengthened, consistent with evolving
market conditions in order to permit the Firm to
lend in a safe and prudent manner. In light of the
current market conditions, the wholesale allowance
for loan loss coverage ratio has been strengthened
to 2.64%, from 1.67% at the end of 2007.

Consumer portfolio credit performance continues to
be negatively affected by the economic environment,
particularly the weak labor market and the decline
in housing prices which occurred nationally. As a
result, the Firm took actions throughout the year
to reduce risk exposure by tightening underwriting
and loan qualification standards in those markets
most affected by the housing downturn. In the
fourth quarter of 2008, the Firm announced plans to
significantly expand loss mitigation efforts
related to its mortgage and home equity portfolios.
During the implementation period of these expanded
loss mitigation efforts, which was substantially in
place in early 2009, the Firm did not place loans
into foreclosure. These loss mitigation efforts are
expected to result in additional increases in the
balance of modified loans carried on the Firm s
balance sheet, including loans accounted for as
troubled debt restructurings, while minimizing the
economic loss to the Firm and assisting homeowners
to remain in their homes.

More detailed discussion of the domestic consumer
credit environment can be found on pages 91 92
of this Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

CREDIT PORTFOLIO

The following table presents JPMorgan Chase s
credit portfolio as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.
Total credit exposure at December 31, 2008,
increased $198.8 billion from December 31, 2007,
reflecting an increase of $115.0 billion in the
consumer credit portfolio and $83.8 billion in the
wholesale credit portfolio. The increase in total
credit exposure from the prior year reflects $319.2
billion and $54.3 billion of additional credit exposure acquired in
connection with the Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns transactions,
respectively.
The exposure from the Washington Mutual transaction consisted of $271.7 billion in the
consumer portfolio and $47.5 billion in the
wholesale portfolio, which was primarily commercial
lending. The exposure from the Bear Stearns acquisition was included
in the wholesale portfolio. Excluding these two
transactions, there was a decrease of $174.7 billion
in overall credit exposure, which was largely
driven by decreases in lending-related commitments,
partly offset by increases in derivative
receivables and managed loans.

While overall portfolio exposure declined when
excluding the Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns
transactions, the Firm provided over $150 billion
in new loans and lines of credit to retail and
wholesale clients in the fourth quarter of 2008,
including individual consumers, small businesses,
large corporations, not-for-profit organizations,
states and municipalities, and other financial
institutions.

In the table below, reported loans include loans
accounted for at fair value and loans
held-for-sale, which are carried at lower of cost
or fair value, with changes in value recorded in
noninterest revenue. However, these held-for-sale
loans and loans accounted for at fair value are
excluded from the average loan balances used for
the net charge-off rate calculations.

Total credit portfolio 

(a) 
       
     Loans (other than those for which the SFAS 159 fair value option has been elected) are
presented net of unearned income and net deferred loan fees of $694 million and $1.0
billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(b) 
       
     Represents securitized credit card receivables. For further discussion of credit card
securitizations, see Card Services on pages 51 53 of this Annual Report. 

(c) 
       
     Primarily represents margin loans to prime and retail brokerage customers included in
accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

(d) 
       
     Includes credit card and home equity lending-related commitments of $623.7 billion
and $95.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008, and $714.8 billion and $74.2
billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007. These amounts for credit card and home equity
lending-related commitments represent the total available credit for these products. The
Firm has not experienced, nor does it anticipate, all available lines of credit being used
at the same time. The Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by providing the
borrower prior notice or, in some cases, without notice as permitted by law. 

(e) 
       
     Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $36.3 billion and $38.4 billion at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are not legally binding. In regulatory
filings with the Federal Reserve, unused advised lines are not reportable. See the
Glossary of Terms on page 218 of this Annual Report for the Firm s definition of advised
lines of credit. 

(f) 
       
     Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name
and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives do
not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133. For additional
information, see page 89
of this Annual Report. 

(g) 
       
     Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(h) 
       
     Excludes nonperforming assets related to (1) loans eligible for repurchase as well as
loans repurchased from GNMA pools that are insured by U.S. government agencies of $3.3
billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively, and (2) student
loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government
agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, of $437 million and $417 million
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts for GNMA and student loans are
excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 

(i) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the policy for classifying subprime mortgage and
home equity loans as nonperforming was changed to conform to all other home lending
products. Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect this change. 

(j) 
       
     Excludes home lending purchased credit-impaired home loans accounted for under SOP
03-3 that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction. These loans are
accounted for on a pool basis and the pools are considered to be performing under SOP
03-3. Also excludes loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value. 

(k) 
       
     Includes $1.5 billion of assets acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction. 

Table of Contents   

WHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO

As of December 31, 2008, wholesale exposure
(IB, CB, TSS and AM) increased $83.8 billion from
December 31, 2007, primarily due to the Bear
Stearns merger, which added $54.3 billion of wholesale exposure in the
second quarter of 2008 ($26.0 billion of
receivables from customers, $18.9 billion of
derivative receivables, $5.0 billion of
lending-related commitments and $4.4 billion of
loans) and the Washington Mutual transaction (which
added $47.5 billion of wholesale exposure in the third
quarter of 2008, mainly consisting of loans).
Excluding these two transactions,
the portfolio decreased $18.0 billion, largely
driven by decreases of $73.7 billion in
lending-related commitments and $9.9 billion in
receivables from customers. Partly offsetting these
decreases was an increase of $65.5 billion in
derivative receivables. The decrease in

lending-related commitments was largely related to
a reduction in multi-seller conduit-related
commitments. The increase in derivative receivables
was primarily related to the decline in interest
rates, widening credit spreads and volatile foreign
exchange rates reflected in interest rate, credit
and foreign exchange derivatives, respectively. For
additional information regarding conduit-related
commitments, see Note 17 on pages 177 186 of this
Annual Report.

Excluding the Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns
transactions, retained loans increased $11.0
billion reflecting increases in traditional lending activity while loans held-for-sale and loans at fair
value decreased reflecting sales, reduced carrying values
and lower volumes in the syndication market.

Wholesale 

(a) 
       
     Includes $224 million of purchased credit-impaired loans at December 31, 2008, which
are accounted for in accordance with SOP 03-3. They are considered nonperforming loans
because the timing and amount of expected future cash flows is not reasonably estimable.
For additional information, see Note 14 on pages 163 166 of this Annual Report. 

(b) 
       
     Primarily represents margin loans to prime and retail brokerage customers, which are
included in accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

(c) 
       
     Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $36.3 billion and $38.4 billion at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are not legally binding. In regulatory
filings with the Federal Reserve, unused advised lines are not reportable. 

(d) 
       
     Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name
and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives do
not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133. For additional information, see page 89
of this Annual Report. 

(e) 
       
     Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(f) 
       
     Assets acquired in loan satisfactions have been excluded in this presentation. See
the wholesale nonperforming assets by line of business segment table for additional
information. 

The following table presents net charge-offs
(excluding gains from sales of nonperforming
loans), for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
2007.

Net charge-offs 

The following table presents the change in the
wholesale nonperforming loan portfolio for the
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Nonperforming loan activity 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

The following table presents the wholesale nonperforming assets by business segment as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007.

The following table presents summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale
portfolio as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. The increase in the proportion of loans maturing after
five years was predominantly due to the Washington Mutual transaction. The ratings scale is based
upon the Firm s internal risk ratings and generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S P and
Moody s.

Wholesale credit exposure   maturity and ratings profile 

(a) 
       
     Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value relate primarily to syndicated loans and loans transferred from
the retained portfolio. 

(b) 
       
     Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold of single-name
and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives do
not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133. 

(c) 
       
     The maturity profile of loans and lending-related commitments is based upon the
remaining contractual maturity. The maturity profile of derivative receivables is based
upon the maturity profile of average exposure. See page 87 of this Annual Report for a
further discussion of average exposure. 

Table of Contents   

Wholesale credit exposure   selected industry concentration 

The Firm focuses on the management and
diversification of its industry concentrations,
with particular attention paid to industries with
actual or potential credit concerns. At December
31, 2008, the top 15 industries to which the Firm
is exposed remained largely unchanged from December
31, 2007. The Firm s real estate industry exposure
increased from the prior year due to the Washington
Mutual transaction. Customer receivables
of $16.1 billion in the table below represents primarily margin

loans to prime and retail brokerage clients acquired in the Bear Stearns merger. These
margin loans are generally fully collateralized by
cash or highly liquid securities to satisfy daily
minimum collateral requirements. For additional
information on industry concentrations, see Note 34
on pages 210 211 of this Annual Report.

Wholesale credit exposure   selected industry concentration 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

(a) 
       
     Rankings are based upon exposure at December 31, 2008. The industries presented in
2007 table reflect the rankings in the 2008 table. 

(b) 
       
     For more information on exposures to SPEs included in all other, see Note 17 on
pages 177 186 of this Annual Report. 

(c) 
       
     Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value relate primarily to syndicated loans and loans transferred
from the retained portfolio. 

(d) 
       
     Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit
derivative hedges and collateral held against derivative receivables or loans. 

(e) 
       
     Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these
derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133. 

(f) 
       
     Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Wholesale criticized exposure 

Exposures deemed criticized generally represent a
ratings profile similar to a rating of
 CCC "/ Caa1  and lower, as defined by S P and
Moody s. The total criticized component of the
portfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale and loans
at fair value, increased to $26.0 billion at
December 31, 2008, from $6.8 billion at year-end
2007. The increase was driven primarily by
downgrades in the wholesale portfolio.

Industry concentrations for wholesale
criticized exposure as of December 31, 2008
and 2007, were as follows.

(a) 
       
     Rankings are based upon exposure at December 31, 2008. The industries presented in
the 2007 table reflect the rankings in the 2008 table. 

(b) 
       
     Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value relate primarily
to syndicated loans
and loans transferred from the retained portfolio. 

Presented below is a discussion of several
industries to which the Firm has significant
exposure, as well as industries the Firm continues
to monitor because of actual or potential credit
concerns. For additional information, refer to the
tables above and on the preceding page.

Real estate: Exposure to this industry grew in 2008 due to the Washington Mutual
transaction, with approximately 70% of this increase consisting of
exposure to multi-family lending. Approximately 45% of the real estate exposure is to large real estate companies and
institutions (e.g. REITS), professional real estate developers, owners, or service
providers, and generally involves real estate leased to third-party tenants. Commercial
construction and development accounted for approximately 13% of the real estate
portfolio at 2008 year-end. Exposure to national and regional single family homebuilders
decreased by 31% from 2007 and represented 5% of the portfolio at 2008 year-end. The increase
in criticized exposure was largely a result of downgrades to select names within the
portfolio, primarily in IB, reflecting the weakening credit environment. The remaining
increase in criticized exposure reflected exposures acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction. 

Banks and finance companies: Exposure to this industry increased primarily as a
result of higher derivative exposure to commercial banks due to higher volatility and
greater trade volume and to the addition of derivative positions from the Bear Stearns
merger. The percentage of the portfolio that is investment grade has declined slightly
from 2007 as a result of the impact of the weakening credit environment on financial
counterparties. The growth in criticized exposure was primarily a result of downgrades
to specialty finance companies, reflected in loans and lending-related commitments. 

Automotive: Industry conditions deteriorated significantly in 2008, particularly in
North America, and are expected to remain under pressure in 2009. The largest percentage
of the Firm s wholesale criticized exposure in this segment is related to Original
Equipment Manufacturers. However, a majority of the year-over-year increase in criticized
exposure related to automotive suppliers which were negatively
affected by
significant declines in automotive production. Most of the Firm s criticized exposure in
this segment remains performing and is substantially secured. 

Asset Managers: Exposure in this industry grew from 2007 as a result of increased
derivative exposure to primarily investment grade funds and the
acquisition of loans and lending-related commitments to this industry
due to the Bear Stearns merger. 

All other: All other in the wholesale credit exposure concentration table on page 85
of this Annual Report at December 31, 2008 included $278.1 billion of credit exposure to 17 industry segments.
    Exposures related to SPEs and high-net-worth individuals were 37% and 19%, respectively, of
this
category. SPEs provide secured financing (generally backed by receivables, loans or 

Table of Contents   

bonds on a bankruptcy-remote, nonrecourse or
limited-recourse basis) originated by a diverse
group of companies in industries that are not
highly correlated. For further discussion of
SPEs, see Note 17 on pages 177 186 of this
Annual Report. The remaining all other exposure
is well-diversified across industries and none
comprise more than 2% of total exposure. 

Derivative contracts 

In the normal course of business, the Firm uses
derivative instruments to meet the needs of
customers; generate revenue through trading
activities; manage exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates, currencies and other markets; and
manage the Firm s credit exposure. The notional
amount of the Firm s derivative contracts
outstanding significantly exceeded, in the Firm s
view, the possible credit losses that could arise
from such transactions. For most derivative
transactions, the notional amount does not change
hands; it is used simply as a reference to
calculate payments. For further discussion of these
contracts, see Note 32 and Note 34 on pages
202 205 and 210 211 of this Annual Report.

The following tables summarize the aggregate
notional amounts and the net derivative receivables
MTM for the periods presented.

Notional amounts of derivative contracts 

(a) 
       
     Represents the sum of gross long and gross short third-party notional derivative
contracts. 

(b) 
       
     Includes cross currency swap contract notional amounts of $1.7 trillion and $1.4
trillion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(c) 
       
     Written options do not result in counterparty credit risk. 

Derivative receivables marked to market ( MTM ) 

The amount of derivative receivables reported
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets of $162.6
billion and $77.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively, is the amount of the
mark-to-market value ( MTM ) or fair value of the
derivative contracts after giving effect to legally
enforceable master netting agreements and cash
collateral held by the Firm. These amounts
represent the cost to the Firm to replace the
contracts at current market rates should the
counterparty default. However, in management s
view, the appropriate measure of current credit
risk should also reflect additional liquid
securities held as collateral by the Firm of $19.8
billion and $9.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively, resulting in total exposure,
net of all collateral, of $142.8 billion and $67.3
billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Derivative receivables, net of
collateral, increased $75.5 billion from December
31, 2007, primarily related to the decline in
interest rates, widening credit spreads and
volatile foreign exchange rates reflected in
interest rate, credit and foreign exchange
derivatives, respectively. The increase in 2008
also included positions acquired in the Bear
Stearns merger.

The Firm also holds additional collateral delivered
by clients at the initiation of transactions, and
although this collateral does not reduce the
balances noted in the table above, it is available
as security against potential exposure that could
arise should the MTM of the client s transactions
move in the Firm s favor. As of December 31, 2008
and 2007, the Firm held $22.2 billion and $17.4
billion of this additional collateral,
respectively. The derivative receivables MTM also
do not include other credit enhancements in the
form of letters of credit.

While useful as a current view of credit exposure,
the net MTM value of the derivative receivables
does not capture the potential future variability
of that credit exposure. To capture the potential
future variability of credit exposure, the Firm
calculates, on a client-by-client basis, three
measures of potential derivatives-related credit
loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent ( DRE ), and
Average exposure ( AVG ). These measures all
incorporate netting and collateral benefits, where
applicable.

Peak exposure to a counterparty is a
measure of exposure calculated at a 97.5%
confidence level. Derivative Risk Equivalent
exposure is a measure that expresses the risk of
derivative exposure on a basis intended to be
equivalent to the risk of loan exposures. The
measurement is done by equating the unexpected
loss in a derivative counterparty exposure (which
takes into consideration

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

both the loss volatility and the credit rating
of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in a
loan exposure (which takes into consideration only
the credit rating of the counterparty). DRE is a
less extreme measure of potential credit loss than
Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm
for credit approval of derivative transactions.

Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected MTM value
of the Firm s derivative receivables at future time
periods, including the benefit of collateral. AVG
exposure over the total life of the derivative
contract is used as the primary metric for pricing
purposes and is used to calculate credit capital
and the Credit Valuation Adjustment ( CVA ), as
further described below. Average exposure was $83.7
billion and
$47.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, compared with derivative
receivables MTM, net of all collateral, of $142.8
billion and $67.3 billion at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively.

The MTM value of the Firm s derivative receivables
incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, to reflect
the credit quality of counterparties. The CVA is
based upon the Firm s AVG to a counterparty and
the counterparty s credit spread in the credit
derivatives market. The primary components of
changes in CVA are credit spreads, new deal
activity or unwinds, and changes in the underlying
market environment. The Firm believes that active
risk management is essential to

controlling the dynamic credit risk in the
derivatives portfolio. In addition, the Firm takes
into consideration the potential for correlation
between the Firm s AVG to a counterparty and the
counterparty s credit quality within the credit
approval process. The Firm risk manages exposure
to changes in CVA by entering into credit
derivative transactions, as well as interest rate,
foreign exchange, equity and commodity derivative
transactions.

The graph below shows exposure profiles to
derivatives over the next ten years as calculated
by the DRE and AVG metrics. The two measures
generally show declining exposure after the first
year, if no new trades were added to the portfolio.

Exposure profile of derivatives measures 

The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm s derivative receivables MTM,
net of other liquid securities collateral, for the dates indicated.

Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM 

Table of Contents   

The increase in noninvestment grade derivative
receivables reflects a weakening credit
environment. The Firm actively pursues the use of
collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty
credit risk in derivatives. The percentage of the
Firm s derivatives transactions subject to
collateral agreements was 83% as of December 31,
2008, largely unchanged from 82% at December
31, 2007.

The Firm posted $99.1 billion and $33.5
billion of collateral at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively.

Certain derivative and collateral agreements
include provisions that require the counterparty
and/or the Firm, upon specified downgrades in their
respective credit ratings, to post collateral for
the benefit of the other party. The impact of a
single-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., from its rating of  AA-  to  A   at
December 31, 2008, would have required $2.2 billion
of additional collateral to be posted by the Firm.
The impact of a six-notch ratings downgrade (from  AA-  to
 BBB- ) would have required $6.4 billion of additional collateral. Certain derivative contracts also provide for
termination of the contract, generally upon a
downgrade of either the Firm or the counterparty,
at the then-existing MTM value of the derivative
contracts.

Credit derivatives  
Credit derivatives are financial contracts that
isolate credit risk from an underlying instrument
(such as a loan or security) and transfer that risk
from one party (the buyer of credit protection) to
another (the seller of credit protection). The Firm
is both a purchaser and seller of credit
protection. As a purchaser of credit protection,
the Firm has risk that the counterparty providing
the credit protection will default. As a seller of
credit protection, the Firm has risk that the
underlying instrument referenced in the contract
will be subject to a credit event. Of the Firm s $162.6 billion of total derivative receivables MTM
at December 31, 2008, $44.7 billion, or 27%, was
associated with credit derivatives, before the
benefit of liquid securities collateral.

One type of credit
derivatives the Firm enters into with counterparties are credit
defaults swaps ( CDS ). For
further detailed discussion of these and other
types of credit derivatives, see Note 32 on pages
202 205 of this Annual Report. The large majority of CDS are subject to
collateral arrangements to protect the Firm from
counterparty credit risk. In 2008, the frequency
and size of defaults for both trading
counterparties and the underlying debt referenced
in credit derivatives were well above
historical norms. The use of collateral to
settle against defaulting counterparties generally
performed as designed in significantly mitigating
the Firm s exposure to these counterparties.

During 2008, the Firm worked with other significant
market participants to develop mechanisms to reduce
counterparty credit risk, including the
cancellation of offsetting trades. In 2009, it is
anticipated that one or more central counterparties
for CDS will be established and JPMorgan Chase will
face these central counterparties, or clearing
houses, for an increasing
portion of its CDS business.

The Firm uses
credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first,
in its capacity as a market-maker in the
dealer/client business to meet the needs of
customers; and second, in order to mitigate the
Firm s own credit risk associated with its overall
derivative receivables and traditional commercial
credit lending exposures (loans and unfunded
commitments), as well as its exposure to
residential and commercial mortgages.

The following table presents the Firm s notional
amounts of credit derivatives protection purchased
and sold as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
distinguishing between dealer/client activity and
credit portfolio activity.

(a) 
       
     Includes $3.9 trillion at December 31, 2008, of notional exposure within protection purchased and
protection sold where the underlying reference instrument is identical. The remaining
exposure includes single name and index CDS which the Firm purchased to manage the
remaining net protection sold. For a further discussion on credit derivatives, see Note 32
on pages 202 205 of this Annual Report. 

(b) 
       
     Includes $34.9 billion and $31.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, that represented the notional amount for structured portfolio protection;
the Firm retains a minimal first risk of loss on this portfolio. 

Dealer/client business  
Within the dealer/client business, the Firm
actively utilizes credit derivatives by buying and
selling credit protection, predominantly on
corporate debt obligations, in response to client
demand for credit risk protection on the underlying
reference instruments. Protection may be bought or
sold by the Firm on single reference debt
instruments ( single-name  credit derivatives),
portfolios of referenced instruments ( portfolio 
credit derivatives) or quoted indices ( indexed 
credit derivatives). The risk positions are largely
matched as the Firm s exposure to a given reference
entity under a contract to sell protection to a
counterparty may be offset partially, or entirely,
with a contract to purchase protection from another
counterparty on the same underlying instrument. Any
residual default exposure and spread risk is
actively managed by the Firm s various trading
desks.

At December 31, 2008, the total notional amount of
protection purchased and sold increased $421
billion from year-end 2007. The increase was
primarily as a result of the merger with Bear
Stearns, partially offset by the impact of
industry efforts to reduce offsetting trade
activity.

Credit portfolio activities  
In managing its wholesale credit exposure the Firm
purchases protection through single-name and
portfolio credit derivatives to manage the credit
risk associated with loans, lending-related
commitments and derivative receivables. Gains or
losses on the credit derivatives are expected to
offset the unrealized increase or decrease in

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

credit risk on the loans, lending-related
commitments or derivative receivables. This
activity does not reduce the reported level of
assets on the balance sheet or the level of
reported off-balance sheet commitments, though it
does provide the Firm with credit risk protection.
The Firm also diversifies its exposures by selling
credit protection, which increases exposure to
industries or clients where the Firm has little or
no client-related exposure, however, this activity is not material to
the Firm s overall credit exposure.

Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives 

(a) 
       
     Included $34.9 billion and $31.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, that represented the notional amount for structured portfolio protection;
the Firm retains a first risk of loss on this portfolio. 

The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase
for credit portfolio management activities do not
qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, and
therefore, effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 is
not performed. Loan interest and fees are generally
recognized in net interest income, and impairment
is recognized in the provision for credit losses.
This asymmetry in accounting treatment between
loans and lending-related commitments and the
credit derivatives utilized in credit portfolio
management activities causes earnings volatility
that is not representative, in the Firm s view, of
the true changes in value of the Firm s overall
credit exposure. The MTM related to the Firm s
credit derivatives used for managing credit
exposure, as well as the MTM related to the CVA,
which reflects the credit quality of derivatives
counterparty exposure, are included in the table
below. These results can vary from period to period
due to market conditions that impact specific
positions in the portfolio. For a further
discussion of credit derivatives, see Note 32 on
pages 202 205 of this Annual Report.

The Firm also actively manages wholesale credit
exposure through IB and CB loan and commitment
sales. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, these sales of
$3.9 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.0 billion of
loans and commitments, respectively, resulted in
losses of $41 million and $7 million in 2008 and
2007 and gains of $83 million in 2006,
respectively. These results include gains on sales
of nonperforming loans, as discussed on page 83 of
this Annual Report. These activities are not
related to the Firm s securitization activities,
which are undertaken for liquidity and balance
sheet management purposes. For a further discussion
of securitization activity, see Liquidity Risk
Management

and Note 16 on pages 76 80 and 168 176,
respectively, of this Annual Report.

Lending-related commitments  
Wholesale lending-related commitments were
$379.9 billion at December 31, 2008, compared with
$446.7 billion at December 31, 2007. The decrease
was largely related to a reduction in multi-seller
conduit-related commitments. In the Firm s view,
the total contractual amount of these instruments
is not representative of the Firm s actual credit
risk exposure or funding requirements. In
determining the amount of credit risk exposure the
Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments,
which is used as the basis for allocating credit
risk capital to these instruments, the Firm has
established a  loan-equivalent  amount for each
commitment; this amount represents the portion of
the unused commitment or other contingent exposure
that is expected, based upon average portfolio
historical experience, to become outstanding in the
event of a default by an obligor. The
loan-equivalent amount of the Firm s
lending-related commitments was $204.3 billion and
$238.7 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Emerging markets country exposure  
The Firm has a comprehensive internal process
for measuring and managing exposures to emerging
markets countries. There is no common definition of
emerging markets but the Firm generally, though not
exclusively, includes in its definition those
countries whose sovereign debt ratings are
equivalent to  A   or lower. Exposures to a country
include all credit-related lending, trading and
investment activities, whether cross-border or
locally funded. In addition to monitoring country
exposures, the Firm uses stress tests to measure
and
manage the risk of extreme loss associated with
sovereign crises.

The following table presents the Firm s exposure to
the top five emerging markets countries. The
selection of countries is based solely on the
Firm s largest total exposures by country and not
the Firm s view of any actual or potentially
adverse credit conditions. Exposure is reported
based upon the country where the assets of the
obligor, counterparty or guarantor are located.
Exposure amounts are adjusted for collateral and
for credit enhancements (e.g., guarantees and
letters of credit) provided by third parties;
outstandings supported by a guarantor outside the
country or backed by collateral held outside the
country are assigned to the country of the
enhancement provider. In addition, the effects of
credit derivative hedges and other short credit or
equity trading positions are reflected in the
following table. Total exposure includes exposure
to both government and private sector entities in a
country.

Table of Contents   

Top 5 emerging markets country exposure 

(a) 
       
     Lending includes loans and accrued interest receivable, interest-bearing deposits
with banks, acceptances, other monetary assets, issued letters of credit net of
participations, and undrawn commitments to extend credit. 

(b) 
       
     Trading includes: (1) issuer exposure on cross-border debt and equity instruments,
held both in trading and investment accounts, adjusted for the impact of issuer hedges,
including credit derivatives; and (2) counterparty exposure on derivative and foreign
exchange contracts as well as security financing trades (resale agreements and securities
borrowed). 

(c) 
       
     Other represents mainly local exposure funded cross-border. 

(d) 
       
     Local exposure is defined as exposure to a country denominated in local currency,
booked and funded locally. Any exposure not meeting these criteria is defined as
cross-border exposure. 

CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO

JPMorgan Chase s consumer portfolio consists
primarily of residential mortgages, home equity
loans, credit cards, auto loans, student loans and
business banking loans, with a primary focus on
serving the prime
consumer credit market. The consumer credit
portfolio also includes certain loans acquired in
the Washington Mutual transaction, primarily
mortgage, home equity and credit card loans. The
RFS portfolio includes home equity lines of credit
and mortgage loans with interest-only payment
options to predominantly prime borrowers, as well
as certain payment option loans acquired from
Washington Mutual that may result in negative
amortization.

A substantial portion of the consumer loans
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction were
identified as credit-impaired in the third quarter
of 2008 based on a preliminary analysis of the
acquired portfolio. In addition, as of the
acquisition date, a $1.4 billion accounting
conformity provision was recorded to reflect the
Firm s preliminary estimate of incurred losses
related to the portion of the acquired consumer
loans that were not considered to be
credit-impaired. During the fourth quarter of 2008,
the analysis of acquired loans was substantially
completed, resulting in a $12.4
billion increase in the credit-impaired loan balances and a
corresponding decrease in the non-credit-impaired
loan balances. In addition, the estimate of
incurred losses related to the non-credit-impaired
portfolio was finalized, resulting in a $476
million decrease in the accounting conformity
provision for these loans. The purchased
credit-impaired loans, which were identified as
impaired based on an analysis of risk
characteristics, including product type,
loan-to-value ratios, FICO scores and delinquency
status, are accounted for under SOP 03-3 and were
recorded at fair value under SOP 03-3 as of the
acquisition date. The fair value of these loans
includes an estimate of losses that are expected to
be incurred over the estimated remaining lives of
the loans, and therefore no allowance for loan
losses was recorded for these loans as of the
transaction date.

The credit performance of the consumer portfolio
across the entire consumer credit product spectrum
continues to be negatively affected by the economic
environment. High unemployment and weaker overall
economic conditions have resulted in increased
delinquencies, and continued weak housing prices
have driven a significant increase in loss
severity. Nonperforming loans and assets continued
to increase through year-end 2008, a key indicator
that charge-offs will continue to rise in 2009.
Additional deterioration in the overall economic
environment, including continued deterioration in
the labor market, could cause delinquencies to
increase beyond the Firm s current expectations,
resulting in significant increases in losses in
2009.

Over the past year, the Firm has taken actions to
reduce risk exposure by tightening both
underwriting and loan qualification standards for
real estate lending, as well as for consumer
lending for non-real estate products. Tighter
income verification, more conservative collateral
valuation, reduced loan-to-value maximums and
higher FICO and custom risk score requirements are
just some of the actions taken to date to mitigate
risk. These actions have resulted in significant
reductions in new originations of  risk layered 
loans (e.g., loans with high
loan-to-value ratios to borrowers with low FICO
scores) and improved alignment of loan pricing. New
originations of subprime mortgage loans, option
ARMs and broker originated-mortgage and home equity
loans have been eliminated entirely.

In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Firm announced
plans to significantly expand loss mitigation
efforts related to its mortgage and home equity
portfolios, including a systematic review of the
real estate portfolio to identify homeowners most
in need of assistance. In addition, the Firm
announced plans to open regional counseling
centers, hire additional loan counselors, introduce
new financing alternatives, proactively reach out
to borrowers to offer pre-qualified modifications,
and commence a new process to independently review
each

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

loan before moving it into the foreclosure
process. During the implementation period of these
loss mitigation efforts, which were substantially
complete in early 2009, the Firm did not place
loans into foreclosure. These loss mitigation
efforts, which generally represent various forms
of term extensions, rate reductions and
forbearances, are

expected
to result in additional increases in the balances of modified loans carried on the Firm s
balance sheet, including loans accounted for as
troubled debt restructurings, while minimizing the
economic loss to the Firm and assisting homeowners
to remain in their homes.

The following table presents managed consumer credit related information for the dates indicated.

Consumer portfolio 

(a) 
       
     Includes RFS, CS and residential mortgage loans reported in the Corporate/Private
Equity segment, as well as approximately $80.0 billion in non-credit-impaired consumer
loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction. 

(b) 
       
     Excludes operating lease-related assets of $2.2 billion and $1.9 billion for
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(c) 
       
     Includes loans for prime mortgage and other (largely student loans) of $206
million and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2008, respectively, and $570 million and $3.4
billion at December 31, 2007, respectively. 

(d) 
       
     Purchased credit-impaired loans represent loans acquired in the Washington Mutual
transaction that were considered credit-impaired under SOP 03-3, and include $6.4 billion
of loans that were considered nonperforming by Washington Mutual prior to the transaction
closing. Under SOP 03-3, these loans are considered to be performing loans as of the
transaction date and accrete interest income over the estimated life of the loan when
cash flows are reasonably estimable, even if the underlying loans are contractually past
due. For additional information, see Note 14 on pages 163 166 of this Annual Report. 

(e) 
       
     Represents securitized credit card receivables. For a further discussion of credit
card securitizations, see CS on pages 51 53 of this Annual Report. 

(f) 
       
     The credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total
available lines of credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, and does not
anticipate, that all available lines of credit will be utilized at the same time. For
credit card commitments and home equity commitments (if certain conditions are met), the
Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by providing the borrower prior notice or,
in some cases, without notice as permitted by law. 

(g) 
       
     Excludes purchased credit-impaired loans accounted for under SOP 03-3 that were
acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction. These loans are accounted for on a
pool basis and the pools are considered to be performing under SOP 03-3. 

(h) 
       
     Excludes nonperforming assets related to: (1) loans eligible for repurchase, as
well as loans repurchased from Governmental National Mortgage Association ( GNMA ) pools that are insured by U.S. government agencies of
$3.3 billion for December 31, 2008 and $1.5 billion for December 31, 2007; and (2) student
loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government
agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $437 million and $417 million
as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts for GNMA and student loans
are excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 

(i) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the Firm s policy for classifying subprime
mortgage and home equity loans as nonperforming was changed to conform to all the other
home lending products. Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect
this change. 

(j) 
       
     Net charge-off rates exclude average loans held-for-sale of $2.8 billion and $10.6
billion for 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the consumer nonperforming assets by business segment as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007.

The Firm regularly evaluates market conditions
and overall economic returns and makes an initial
determination of whether new originations will be
held-for-investment or sold within the foreseeable
future. The Firm also periodically evaluates the
expected economic returns of previously originated
loans under prevailing market conditions to
determine whether their designation as
held-for-sale or held-for-investment continues to
be appropriate. When the Firm determines that a
change in this designation is appropriate, the
loans are transferred to the appropriate
classification. During the third and fourth
quarters of 2007, in response to changes in market
conditions, the Firm designated as
held-for-investment all new originations of
subprime mortgage loans, as well as subprime
mortgage loans that were previously designated
held-for-sale. In addition, all new prime mortgage
originations that cannot be sold to U.S. government
agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises
have been designated as held-for-investment. Prime
mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell
are accounted for at fair value under SFAS 159 and
are classified as trading assets in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The following discussion relates to the specific
loan and lending-related categories within the
consumer portfolio. Information regarding combined loan-to-value ratios
( CLTVs ) and loan-to-value ratios ( LTVs ) were
estimated based on the initial appraisal obtained at the time of
origination, adjusted using relevant market indices for housing price
changes that have occurred since origination. The estimated value of
the homes could vary from actual market values due to changes in
condition of the underlying property, variations in housing price
changes within metropolitan statistical areas ( MSAs ) and
other factors.

Home equity:  Home equity loans at December 31,
2008, were $114.3 billion, excluding purchased
credit-impaired loans, an increase of $19.5 billion
from year-end 2007, primarily reflecting the
addition of loans acquired in the Washington Mutual
transaction. The 2008 provision for credit losses
for the home equity portfolio includes net
increases of $2.2 billion to the allowance for loan
losses for 2008 for the heritage JPMorgan Chase
portfolio as a result of the economic environment
noted above. The Firm estimates that loans with effective CLTVs in excess of 100%
represented approximately 22% of the home equity portfolio. In
response to continued economic weakness, loan
underwriting and account management criteria have
been tightened, with a particular focus on
metropolitan
statistical areas ( MSAs ) with the most
significant housing price declines. New
originations of home equity loans have decreased
significantly, as additional loss mitigation
strategies have been employed; these strategies
include the elimination of stated income and broker
originated loans, a significant reduction of
maximum CLTVs for
new originations, which now range from 50% to 70%,
and additional restrictions on new originations in
geographic

areas experiencing the greatest housing
price depreciation and highest unemployment. Other
loss mitigation strategies include the reduction or
closure of outstanding credit lines for borrowers
who have experienced significant increases in CLTVs
or decreases in creditworthiness (e.g. declines in
FICO scores.)

Mortgage:  Mortgage loans at December 31, 2008,
which include prime mortgages, subprime mortgages,
option ARMs and loans held-for-sale, were $96.8
billion, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans,
reflecting a $40.8 billion increase from year-end
2007, primarily reflecting the addition of loans
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction.

Prime mortgages of $72.5 billion increased $31.9
billion from December 2007 as a result of loans
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and,
to a lesser extent, additional originations into
the portfolio. The 2008 provision for credit losses
includes a net increase of $1.1 billion to the
allowance for loan losses for the heritage JPMorgan
Chase portfolio as a result of the economic
environment noted above. The Firm estimates that loans with effective
LTVs in excess of 100%
represented approximately 18% of the prime mortgage portfolio.
The Firm has tightened underwriting standards for
nonconforming prime mortgages in recent quarters,
including eliminating stated income products,
reducing LTV maximums, and eliminating the broker
origination channel.

Subprime mortgages of $15.3 billion, excluding
purchased credit-impaired loans, decreased slightly
from December 31, 2007, as the discontinuation of
new originations was predominantly offset by loans
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction. The
year-to-date provision for credit losses includes a
net increase of $1.4 billion to the allowance for
loan losses for the heritage JPMorgan Chase
portfolio as a result of the economic environment
noted above. The Firm estimates that loans with effective
LTVs in excess of 100% represented approximately 27%
of the subprime mortgage portfolio.

Option ARMs of $9.0 billion, excluding purchased
credit-impaired loans, were acquired in the
Washington Mutual transaction. New originations
of option ARMs were discontinued by Washington

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Mutual prior to the date of the Washington
Mutual transaction. This portfolio is primarily
comprised of loans
with low LTVs and high borrower FICOs and for which
the Firm currently expects substantially lower
losses in comparison with the purchased
credit-impaired portfolio. The Firm has not, and
does not, originate option ARMs.

Option ARMs are adjustable-rate mortgage products
that provide the borrower with the option to make a
fully amortizing, interest-only, or minimum
payment. The minimum payment is based upon the
interest rate charged during the introductory
period. This introductory rate is typically well
below the fully indexed rate. The fully indexed
rate is calculated using an index rate plus a
margin. Once the introductory period ends, the
contractual interest rate charged on the loan
increases to the fully indexed rate. If the
borrower continues to make the minimum monthly
payment after the introductory period ends, the
payment may not be sufficient to cover interest
accrued in the previous month. In this case, the
loan will  negatively amortize  as unpaid interest
is deferred and added to the principal balance of
the loan. Option ARMs typically become fully
amortizing loans upon reaching a negative
amortization cap or on dates specified in the
borrowing agreement, at which time the required
monthly payment generally increases substantially.

Auto loans:  As of December 31, 2008, auto loans of
$42.6 billion increased slightly from year-end
2007. The allowance for loan losses for the auto
loan portfolio was increased during 2008,
reflecting an increase in estimated losses due to
an increase in loss severity and further
deterioration of older vintage loans as a result of
the worsening credit environment and declines in
auto resale values. The auto loan portfolio
reflects a high concentration of prime quality
credits. In response to recent increases in loan
delinquencies and credit losses, particularly in
MSAs experiencing the greatest housing price
depreciation and highest unemployment, credit
underwriting criteria have been tightened, which
has resulted in the reduction of both extended-term
and high loan-to-value financing.

Credit card:  JPMorgan Chase analyzes its credit
card portfolio on a managed basis, which includes
credit card receivables on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets and those receivables sold to investors
through securitization. Managed credit card
receivables were $190.3 billion at December 31,
2008, an increase of $33.3 billion from year-end
2007, reflecting the acquisition of credit card
loans as part of the Washington Mutual transaction,
as well as organic growth in the portfolio.

The managed credit card net charge-off rate
increased to 5.01% for 2008 from 3.68% in 2007.
This increase was due primarily to higher
charge-offs as a result of the current economic
environment, especially in areas experiencing the
greatest housing price depreciation and highest
unemployment. The 30-day managed delinquency rate
increased to 4.97% at December 31, 2008, from 3.48%
at December 31, 2007, partially as a result of the
addition of credit

card loans acquired in the Washington Mutual
transaction. Excluding the Washington Mutual
portfolio, the 30-day managed delinquency rate was
4.36%. The Allowance for loan losses was increased
due to higher estimated net charge-offs in the
portfolio. As a result of continued weakness in
housing markets, account acquisition credit
criteria and account management credit practices
have been tightened, particularly in MSAs
experiencing significant home price declines. The
managed credit card portfolio continues to reflect
a well-seasoned, largely rewards-based portfolio
that has good U.S. geographic diversification.

All other loans:  All other loans primarily include
business banking loans (which are highly
collateralized loans, often with personal loan
guarantees), student loans, and other secured and
unsecured consumer loans. As of December 31, 2008,
other loans, including loans held-for-sale, of
$35.5 billion were up $6.8 billion from year-end
2007, primarily as a result of organic growth in
business banking loans and student loans, as well
as an increase in business banking loans as a
result of the Washington Mutual transaction.

Purchased credit-impaired loans:  Purchased
credit-impaired loans of $88.8 billion in the home
lending portfolio represent loans acquired in the
Washington Mutual transaction that were recorded at
fair value at the time of acquisition under SOP
03-3. The fair value of these loans includes an
estimate of losses that are expected to be incurred
over the estimated remaining lives of the loans,
and therefore no allowance for loan losses was
recorded for these loans as of the transaction
date. Through year-end 2008, the credit performance
of these loans has generally been consistent with
the assumptions used in determining the initial
fair value of these loans, and the Firm s original
expectations regarding the amounts and timing of
future cash flows has not changed. A probable
decrease in management s expectation of future cash
collections related to these loans could result in
the need to record an allowance for credit losses
related to these loans in the future. A significant
and probable increase in expected cash flows would
generally result in an increase in interest income
recognized over the remaining life of the
underlying pool of loans.

Other real estate owned:  As part of the residential
real estate foreclosure process, loans are written
down to net realizable value less a cost to sell
the asset. In those instances where the Firm gains
title, ownership and possession of individual
properties at the completion of the foreclosure
process, these Other Real Estate Owned (OREO)
assets are managed for prompt sale and disposition
at the best possible economic value. Any further
gain or loss on sale of the disposition of OREO
assets are recorded as part of other income.

Table of Contents   

The following tables present the geographic distribution of consumer credit outstandings by product
as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans.

Consumer loans by geographic region 

Consumer loans by geographic region 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

(a) 
       
     Excluding the purchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the Washington Mutual
transaction. 

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

JPMorgan Chase s allowance for credit losses is
intended to cover probable credit losses, including
losses where the asset is not specifically
identified or the size of the loss has not been
fully determined. At least quarterly, the allowance
for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief
Executive Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the
Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the
Firm, and discussed with the Risk Policy and Audit
Committees of the Board of Directors of the Firm.
The allowance is reviewed relative to the risk
profile of the Firm s credit portfolio and current
economic conditions and is adjusted if, in

management s judgment, changes are warranted. The
allowance includes an asset-specific and a
formula-based component. For further discussion of
the components of the allowance for credit losses,
see Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm
on pages 107 111 and Note 15 on pages 166 168 of
this Annual Report. At December 31, 2008,
management deemed the allowance for credit losses
to be appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorb
losses that are inherent in the portfolio,
including losses that are not specifically
identified or for which the size of the loss has
not yet been fully determined).

Table of Contents   

Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses 

(a) 
       
     Reflects the effect of the adoption of SFAS 159 at January 1, 2007. For a further
discussion of SFAS 159, see Note 5 on pages 144 146 of this Annual Report. 

(b) 
       
     Related to the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 

(c) 
       
     Primarily related to the transfer of loans and lending-related commitments from RFS to CB during the first quarter
of 2008. 

(d) 
       
     Wholesale loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were $14.0 billion and $23.6
billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts were excluded when
calculating the allowance coverage ratios. 

(e) 
       
     Consumer loans held-for-sale were $2.0 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts were excluded when calculating the allowance
coverage ratios. 

(f) 
       
     Average wholesale loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were $18.9 billion
and $18.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These
amounts were excluded when calculating the net charge-off rates. 

(g) 
       
     Average consumer (excluding card) loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were
$2.8 billion and $10.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. These amounts were excluded when calculating the net charge-off rates. 

(h) 
       
     Includes $88.8 billion of home lending credit-impaired loans acquired in the
Washington Mutual transaction and accounted for under SOP 03-3 at December 31, 2008. These
loans were accounted for at fair value on the acquisition date, which reflected expected
cash flows (including credit losses) over the remaining life of the portfolio. No
allowance for loan losses has been recorded for these loans as of December 31, 2008. 

(i) 
       
     Partially related to the transfer of allowance between wholesale and consumer in
conjunction with prime mortgages transferred to the Corporate/Private Equity sector. 

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

The allowance for credit losses increased $13.7
billion from the prior year to $23.8 billion. The increase
included $4.1 billion of allowance related to noncredit impaired
loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and the related
accounting conformity provision. Excluding held-for-sale loans, loans
carried at fair value, and purchased
credit-impaired consumer loans, the allowance for
loan losses represented
3.62% of loans at December 31, 2008, compared
with 1.88% at December 31, 2007.

The consumer allowance for loan losses increased
$10.5 billion from the prior year as a result of
the Washington Mutual transaction and increased
allowance for loan loss in residential real estate
and credit card. The increase included additions to
the allowance for loan losses of $4.7 billion
driven by higher estimated losses for residential
mortgage and home equity loans as the weak labor
market and weak overall economic conditions have
resulted in increased delinquencies, while
continued weak housing prices have driven a
significant increase in loss severity. The
allowance for loan losses related to credit card
increased $4.3 billion from the prior year
primarily due to the acquired allowance and
subsequent conforming provision for loan loss
related to the Washington Mutual Bank acquisition
and an increase in provision for loan losses of
$2.3 billion in 2008 over

2007, as higher estimated net-charge offs are
expected in the portfolio resulting from the
current economic conditions.

The wholesale allowance for loan losses increase of
$3.4 billion from December 31, 2007, reflected the
effect of a weakening credit environment and the
transfer of $4.9 billion of funded and unfunded
leveraged lending commitments to retained loans
from held-for-sale.

To provide for
the risk of loss inherent in the Firm s process of
extending credit, an allowance for lending-related
commitments is held for both wholesale and
consumer, which is reported in other liabilities.
The wholesale component is computed using a
methodology similar to that used for the wholesale
loan portfolio, modified for expected maturities
and probabilities of drawdown and has an
asset-specific component and a formula-based
component. For a further discussion on the
allowance for lending-related commitment see Note 15 on page 166 168 of this Annual Report. The allowance for lending-related commitments for
both wholesale and consumer was $659 million and $850
million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. The decrease reflects the reduction
in lending-related commitments at December 31, 2008. For more information see page 90 of this Annual Report.

The following table presents the allowance for loan losses and net charge-offs (recoveries) by
business segment at December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Table of Contents   

Provision for credit losses 

The managed provision for credit losses includes amounts related to credit card
securitizations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the increase in the provision for credit
losses was due to year-over-year increase in the allowance for
credit losses largely related to the home equity, subprime mortgage, prime mortgage and credit card loan portfolios in the consumer
businesses as well as in the allowance for credit losses related to
the wholesale portfolio. The increase in the wholesale provision for loan
losses from the prior year was due to the weakening credit environment, loan growth and the
transfer of $4.9 billion of funded and unfunded leverage lending commitments to retained loans from
held-for-sale. The decrease in provision for lending-related commitments from the prior year
benefited from reduced balances of lending-related commitments.

(a) 
       
     Includes accounting conformity provisions related to the Washington Mutual
transaction in 2008. 

(b) 
       
     Includes provision expense related to loans acquired in the Bear Stearns merger in
the second quarter of 2008. 

(c) 
       
     Includes amounts related to held-for-investment prime mortgages transferred from
AM to the Corporate/Private Equity segment. 

(d) 
       
     In November 2008, the Firm transferred $5.8 billion of higher quality credit card
loans from the legacy Chase portfolio to a securitization trust previously established by
Washington Mutual ( the Trust ). As a result of converting higher credit quality
Chase-originated on-book receivables to the Trust s seller s interest which has a higher
overall loss rate reflective of the total assets within the Trust, approximately $400
million of incremental provision expense was recorded during the fourth quarter. This
incremental provision expense was recorded in the Corporate segment as the action related
to the acquisition of Washington Mutual s banking operations. For further discussion of
credit card securitizations, see Note 16 on pages 169 170 of this Annual Report. 

MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT

Market risk is the exposure to an adverse
change in the market value of portfolios and
financial instruments caused by a change in market
prices or rates.

Market risk management  
Market risk is identified, measured, monitored, and
controlled by Market Risk, a corporate risk
governance function independent of the lines of
business. Market Risk seeks to facilitate efficient
risk/return decisions, reduce volatility in
operating performance and make the Firm s market
risk profile transparent to senior management, the
Board of Directors and regulators. Market Risk is
overseen by the Chief Risk Officer and performs the
following functions:

Establishment of a comprehensive market risk policy framework 

Independent measurement, monitoring and control of business segment market risk 

Definition, approval and monitoring of limits 

Performance of stress testing and qualitative risk assessments 

Risk identification and classification  
Market Risk works in partnership with the
business segments to identify market risks
throughout the Firm and define and monitor
market risk policies and procedures. All
business segments are

responsible for the comprehensive identification
and verification of market risks within their
units. Risk-taking businesses have functions that
act independently from trading personnel and are
responsible for verifying risk exposures that the
business takes. In addition to providing
independent oversight for market risk arising from
the business segments, Market Risk is also
responsible for identifying exposures which may not
be large within individual business segments but
which may be large for the Firm in the aggregate.
Regular meetings are held between Market Risk and
the heads of risk-taking businesses to discuss and
decide on risk exposures in the context of the
market environment and client flows.

Positions that expose the Firm to market risk can
be classified into two categories: trading and
nontrading risk. Trading risk includes positions
that are held by the Firm as part of a business
segment or unit, the main business strategy of
which is to trade or make markets. Unrealized gains and losses in these positions are
generally reported in principal transactions
revenue. Nontrading risk includes securities and
other assets held for longer-term investment,
mortgage servicing rights, and securities and
derivatives used to manage the Firm s
asset/liability exposures. Unrealized gains and
losses in these positions are generally not
reported in principal transactions revenue.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Trading risk  

The Firm makes markets and trades its products
across several different asset classes. These asset
classes include primarily fixed income (which
includes interest rate risk and credit spread
risk), foreign exchange, equities and commodities.
Trading risk arises from positions in these asset
classes and may lead to the potential decline in
net income (i.e., economic sensitivity)
due to adverse changes in market rates, whether
arising from client activities or proprietary
positions taken by the Firm.

Nontrading risk  
Nontrading risk arises from execution of the Firm s
core business strategies, the delivery of products
and services to its customers, and the positions
the Firm undertakes to risk-manage its exposures.

These exposures can result from a variety of
factors, including differences in the timing among
the maturity or repricing of assets, liabilities
and off-balance sheet instruments. Changes in the
level and shape of market interest rate curves also
may create interest rate risk, since the repricing
characteristics of the Firm s assets do not
necessarily match those of its liabilities. The
Firm is also exposed to basis risk, which is the
difference in the repricing characteristics of two
floating-rate indices, such as the prime rate and
3-month LIBOR. In addition, some of the Firm s
products have embedded optionality that impact
pricing and balances.

The Firm s mortgage banking activities give rise to
complex interest rate risks, as well as option and
basis risk. Option risk arises primarily from
prepayment options embedded in mortgages and
changes in the probability of newly originated
mortgage commitments actually closing. Basis risk
results from different relative movements between
mortgage rates and other interest rates.

Risk measurement 

Tools used to measure risk 

Because no single measure can reflect all aspects
of market risk, the Firm uses various metrics, both
statistical and nonstatistical, including:

Nonstatistical risk measures 

Value-at-risk ( VaR ) 

Loss advisories 

Drawdowns 

Economic value stress testing 

Earnings-at-risk stress testing 

Risk identification for large exposures ( RIFLE ) 

Nonstatistical risk measures  
Nonstatistical risk measures other than stress
testing include net open positions, basis point
values, option sensitivities, market values,
position concentrations and position turnover.
These measures provide granular information on the
Firm s market risk exposure. They are aggregated by
line of business and by risk type, and are used for
monitoring limits, one-off approvals and tactical
control.

Value-at-risk ( VaR )  
JPMorgan Chase s primary statistical risk measure,
VaR, estimates the potential loss from adverse
market moves in an ordinary market environment and
provides a consistent cross-business measure of
risk profiles and levels of diversification. VaR is
used for comparing risks across businesses,
monitoring limits, and as an input to economic
capital calculations. VaR provides risk
transparency in a normal trading environment. Each
business day the Firm undertakes a comprehensive
VaR calculation that includes both its trading and
its nontrading risks. VaR for nontrading risk
measures the amount of potential change in the fair
values of the exposures related to these risks;
however, for such risks, VaR is not a measure of
reported revenue since nontrading activities are
generally not marked to market through net income.
Hedges of nontrading activities may be included in
trading VaR since they are marked to market.

To calculate VaR, the Firm uses historical
simulation, based on a one-day time horizon and an
expected tail-loss methodology, which measures risk
across instruments and portfolios in a consistent
and comparable way. The simulation is based upon
data for the previous 12 months. This approach
assumes that historical changes in market values
are representative of future changes; this is an
assumption that may not always be accurate,
particularly given the volatility in the current
market environment. For certain products, an actual
price time series is not available. In such cases,
the historical simulation is done using a proxy
time series to estimate the risk. It is likely that
using an actual price time series for these
products, if available, would impact the VaR
results presented. In addition, certain risk
parameters, such as correlation risk among certain
IB trading instruments, are not fully captured in
VaR.

In the third quarter of 2008, the Firm revised its
VaR measurement to include additional risk
positions previously excluded from VaR, thus
creating, in the Firm s view, a more comprehensive
view of its market risks. In addition, the Firm
moved to calculating VaR using a 95% confidence
level to provide a more stable measure of the VaR
for day-to-day risk management. The following sections describe JPMorgan Chase s
VaR measures under both the legacy 99% confidence
level as well as the new 95% confidence level. The
Firm intends to solely present the VaR at the 95%
confidence level once information for two complete
year-to-date periods is available.

Table of Contents   

99% Confidence Level VaR 

IB trading VaR by risk type and credit portfolio VaR 

(a) 
       
     The results for the year ended December 31, 2008, include five months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase only results and seven months of results for the combined JPMorgan Chase
and Bear Stearns; 2007 reflects heritage JPMorgan Chase results only. 

(b) 
       
     Average and period-end VaRs were less than the sum of the VaRs of its market risk
components, which is due to risk offsets resulting from portfolio diversification. The
diversification effect reflects the fact that the risks were not perfectly correlated. The
risk of a portfolio of positions is therefore usually less than the sum of the risks of
the positions themselves. 

(c) 
       
     Designated as not meaningful ( NM ) because the minimum and maximum may occur on
different days for different risk components, and hence it is not meaningful to compute a
portfolio diversification effect. 

Trading VaR includes substantially all trading
activities in IB. Beginning in the fourth quarter
of 2008, the credit spread sensitivities of certain
mortgage products were included in trading VaR.
This change had an insignificant net impact on the
average fourth quarter 2008 VaR. However, trading
VaR does not include: held-for-sale funded loan and
unfunded commitments positions (however, it does
include hedges of those positions); the debit
valuation adjustments ( DVA ) taken on derivative
and structured liabilities to reflect the credit
quality of the Firm; the MSR portfolio; and
securities and instruments held by corporate
functions, such as Corporate/Private Equity. See
the DVA Sensitivity table on page 103 of this
Annual Report for further details. For a discussion
of MSRs and the corporate functions, see Note 4 on
pages 129 143, Note 18 on pages 186 189 and
Corporate/ Private Equity on pages 61 63 of this
Annual Report.

2008
VaR results  
IB s average total trading and credit portfolio VaR
was $202 million for 2008, compared with $106
million for 2007, and includes the positions from
the Bear Stearns merger since May 31, 2008. The
increase in average
and maximum VaR during 2008 compared with the prior
year was primarily due to increased volatility
across virtually all asset classes. In addition,
increased hedges of positions not specifically
captured in VaR   for example, macro hedge
strategies that have been deployed to mitigate the
consequences of a systemic risk event and hedges of
loans held-for-sale   significantly increased the
VaR compared with the prior period.

For 2008, compared with the prior year, average
trading VaR diversification increased to $108
million from $77 million, reflecting the impact of
the Bear Stearns merger. In general, over the
course of the year, VaR exposures can vary
significantly as positions change, market
volatility fluctuates and diversification benefits
change.

VaR
backtesting  
To evaluate the soundness of its VaR model, the
Firm conducts daily back-testing of VaR against
daily IB market risk-related revenue, which is
defined as the change in value of principal
transactions revenue (less Private Equity
gains/losses) plus any trading-related net interest
income, brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or
other revenue. The daily IB market risk-related
revenue excludes gains and losses on held-for-sale
funded loans and unfunded commitments and from DVA.
The following histogram illustrates the daily
market risk-related gains and losses for IB trading
businesses for the year ended 2008. The chart shows
that IB posted market risk-related gains on 165 of
the 262 days in this period, with 54 days exceeding
$120 million. The inset graph looks at those days
on which IB experienced losses and depicts the
amount by which 99% confidence level VaR exceeded
the actual loss on each of those days. During the
year ended December 31, 2008, losses were sustained
on 97 days; losses exceeded the VaR measure on
three of those days compared with eight days for
the year ended 2007. The Firm would expect to incur
losses greater than those predicted by the 99%
confidence level VaR estimates once in every 100
trading days, or about two to three times a year.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

(a) Includes seven months of Bear Stearns results. 

95% Confidence Level VaR 

  Total IB trading VaR by risk type, credit portfolio VaR and other VaR 

The Firm s new 95% VaR measure includes all
the risk positions taken into account under the
99% confidence level VaR measure, as well as
syndicated lending facilities the Firm intends to
distribute (and, beginning in the fourth quarter
of 2008, the credit spread sensitivities of
certain mortgage products). The Firm utilizes
proxies

to estimate the VaR for these mortgage and credit
products since daily time series are largely not
available. In addition, the new VaR measure
includes certain actively managed positions
utilized as part of the Firm s risk management
function within Corporate and in the Consumer
Lending businesses to provide a total IB and other
VaR

Table of Contents   

measure. In the Firm s view, including these
items in VaR produces a more complete perspective
of the Firm s risk profile for items with market
risk that can impact the income statement. The
Consumer Lending VaR includes the Firm s mortgage
pipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs and all related
hedges.

The revised VaR measure continues to exclude the
DVA taken on derivative and structured liabilities
to reflect the credit quality of the Firm. It also
excludes certain nontrading activity such as
Private Equity, principal investing (e.g.,
mezzanine financing, tax-oriented investments,
etc.) and Corporate balance sheet and capital
management positions, as well as longer-term
corporate investments. Corporate positions are
managed through the Firm s earnings-at-risk and
other cash flow monitoring processes rather than by
using a VaR measure. Nontrading principal investing
activities and Private Equity positions are managed
using stress and scenario analyses.

Changing to the 95% confidence interval caused the
average VaR to drop by $85 million in the third
quarter when the new measure was implemented. Under
the 95% confidence interval, the Firm would expect
to incur daily losses greater than those predicted
by VaR estimates about twelve times a year.

The following table provides information about the
sensitivity of DVA to a one basis point increase in
JPMorgan Chase s credit spreads. The sensitivity of
DVA at December 31, 2008, represents the Firm
(including Bear Stearns), while the sensitivity of
DVA for December 31, 2007, represents heritage
JPMorgan Chase only.

Debit Valuation Adjustment Sensitivity 

Loss advisories and drawdowns  

Loss advisories and drawdowns are tools used to
highlight to senior management trading losses
above certain levels and initiate discussion of
remedies.

Economic value stress testing  
While VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse
changes in normal markets, stress testing captures
the Firm s exposure to unlikely but plausible
events in abnormal markets. The Firm conducts
economic value stress tests for both its trading
and nontrading activities at least every two weeks
using multiple scenarios that assume credit spreads
widen significantly, equity prices decline and
interest rates rise in the major currencies.
Additional scenarios focus on the risks predominant
in individual business segments and include
scenarios that focus on the potential for adverse
moves in complex portfolios. Periodically,
scenarios are reviewed and updated to reflect
changes in the Firm s risk profile and economic
events. Along with VaR, stress testing is
important in measuring and controlling risk. Stress
testing enhances the understanding of the Firm s
risk profile and loss potential, and stress losses
are monitored against limits. Stress testing is
also utilized in one-off approvals and
cross-business risk measurement, as well as an
input to economic capital allocation. Stress-test

results, trends and explanations are provided at
least every two weeks to the Firm s senior
management and to the lines of business to help
them better measure and manage risks and
understand event risk-sensitive positions.

Earnings-at-risk stress testing  
The VaR and stress-test measures described above
illustrate the total economic sensitivity of the
Firm s balance sheet to changes in market
variables. The effect of interest rate exposure on
reported net income is also important. Interest
rate risk exposure in the Firm s core non-trading
business activities (i.e., asset/liability
management positions) results from on- and
off-balance sheet positions and can occur due to a
variety of factors, including:

Differences in the timing among the maturity or repricing of assets, liabilities and
off-balance sheet
instruments. For example, if liabilities reprice quicker than assets and funding interest
rates are declining, earnings will increase initially. 

Differences in the amounts of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments
that are repricing at the same time. For example, if more deposit liabilities are
repricing than assets when general interest rates are declining, earnings will increase
initially. 

Differences in the amounts by which short-term and long-term market interest rates
change (for example, changes in the slope of the yield curve because the Firm has the
ability to lend at long-term fixed rates and borrow at variable or short-term fixed rates.
Based upon these scenarios, the Firm s earnings would be affected negatively by a sudden
and unanticipated increase in short-term rates paid on its liabilities (e.g., deposits)
without a corresponding increase in long-term rates received on its assets (e.g., loans).
Conversely, higher long-term rates received on assets generally are beneficial to
earnings, particularly when the increase is not accompanied by rising short-term rates
paid on liabilities. 

The impact of changes in the maturity of various assets, liabilities or off-balance
sheet instruments as interest rates change. For example, if more borrowers than forecasted
pay down higher rate loan balances when general interest rates are declining, earnings may
decrease initially. 

The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to
its assets and liabilities on a consolidated,
corporate-wide basis. Business units transfer their
interest rate risk to Treasury through a
transfer-pricing system, which takes into account
the elements of interest rate exposure that can be
risk-managed in financial markets. These elements
include asset and liability balances and
contractual rates of interest, contractual
principal payment schedules, expected prepayment
experience, interest rate reset dates and
maturities, rate indices used for re-pricing, and
any interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable
rate products. All transfer-pricing assumptions are
dynamically reviewed.

The Firm conducts simulations of changes in net
interest income from its nontrading activities
under a
variety of interest rate scenarios.
Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change
in the Firm s net interest income, and the
corresponding impact to the Firm s pre-

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

tax earnings, over the following 12 months.
These tests highlight exposures to various
rate-sensitive factors, such as the rates
themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing
strategies on deposits, optionality and changes in
product mix. The tests include forecasted balance
sheet changes, such as asset sales and
securitizations, as well as prepayment and
reinvestment behavior.

Immediate changes in interest rates present a
limited view of risk, and so a number of
alternative scenarios are also reviewed. These
scenarios include the implied forward curve,
nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rate
shocks on selected key rates. These scenarios are
intended to provide a comprehensive view of
JPMorgan Chase s earnings-at-risk over a wide range
of outcomes.

JPMorgan Chase s 12-month pretax earnings
sensitivity profile as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, is as follows.

(a) 
       
     Down 100 and 200 basis point parallel shocks result in a Fed Funds target rate of
zero, and negative three- and six-month Treasury rates. The earnings-at-risk results of
such a low probability scenario are not meaningful ( NM ). 

The change in earnings-at-risk from December
31, 2007, results from a higher level of AFS
securities and lower market interest rates. The benefit to the Firm of an increase in rates results from a widening of deposit margins which are currently compressed due to very low short term interest rates. This benefit would be partially offset by the effect of reduced mortgage prepayments. The impact to the
Firm s pretax earnings of reduced mortgage prepayments would become more pronounced under a +200 bp parallel shock.

Additionally, another sensitivity involving a
steeper yield curve, with long-term rates rising
100 basis points and short-term rates staying at
current levels, results in a 12-month pretax
earnings benefit of $740 million. The increase in
earnings is due to reinvestment of maturing assets
at the higher long-term rates with funding costs
remaining unchanged.

Risk identification for large exposures ( RIFLE )  
Individuals who manage risk positions,
particularly those that are complex, are
responsible for identifying potential losses that
could arise from specific, unusual events, such as
a potential tax change, and estimating the
probabilities of losses arising from such events.
This information is entered into the Firm s RIFLE
database. Management of trading businesses control
RIFLE entries, thereby permitting the Firm to
monitor further earnings vulnerability not
adequately covered by standard risk measures.

Risk monitoring and control 

Limits  
Market risk is controlled primarily through a
series of limits. Limits reflect the Firm s risk
appetite in the context of the market environment
and business strategy. In setting limits, the Firm
takes into consideration factors such as market
volatility, product liquidity, business trends and
management experience.

Market risk management regularly reviews and
updates risk limits. Senior management, including
the Firm s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Risk
Officer, is responsible for reviewing and approving
risk limits at least once a year.

The Firm maintains different levels of limits.
Corporate-level limits include VaR and stress
limits. Similarly, line-of-business limits include
VaR and stress limits and may be supplemented by
loss advisories, nonstatistical measurements and
instrument authorities. Businesses are responsible
for adhering to established limits, against which
exposures are monitored and reported. Limit
breaches are reported in a timely manner to senior
management, and the affected business segment is
required to reduce trading positions or consult
with senior management on the appropriate action.

Qualitative review  
The Market Risk Management group also performs
periodic reviews as necessary of both businesses
and products with exposure to market risk to assess
the ability of the businesses to control their
market risk. Strategies, market conditions, product
details and risk controls are reviewed, and
specific recommendations for improvements are made
to management.

Model review  
Some of the Firm s financial instruments cannot be
valued based upon quoted market prices but are
instead valued using pricing models. Such models
are used for management of risk positions, such as
reporting against limits, as well as for valuation.
The Model Risk Group, independent of the businesses
and market risk management, reviews the models the
Firm uses and assesses model appropriateness and
consistency. The model reviews consider a number of
factors about the model s suitability for valuation
and risk management of a particular product,
including whether it accurately reflects the
characteristics of the transaction and its
significant risks, the suitability and convergence
properties of numerical algorithms, reliability of
data sources, consistency of the treatment with
models for similar products, and sensitivity to
input parameters and assumptions that cannot be
priced from the market.

Reviews are conducted of new or changed models, as
well as previously accepted models, to assess
whether there have been any changes in the product
or market that may impact the model s validity and
whether there are theoretical or competitive
developments that may require reassessment of the
model s adequacy. For a summary of valuations based
upon models, see Critical Accounting Estimates used
by the Firm on pages 107 111 of this Annual
Report.

Risk reporting 

Nonstatistical exposures, value-at-risk, loss
advisories and limit excesses are reported daily
for each trading and nontrading business. Market
risk exposure trends, value-at-risk trends, profit
and loss changes, and portfolio concentrations are
reported weekly. Stress-test results are reported
at least every two weeks to business and senior
management.

Table of Contents   

PRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT

Risk management  
The Firm makes direct principal investments in
private equity. The illiquid nature and long-term
holding period associated with these investments
differentiates private equity risk from the risk of
positions held in the trading portfolios. The
Firm s approach to managing private equity risk is
consistent with the Firm s general risk governance
structure. Controls are in place establishing
expected levels for total and annual investment in
order to control the overall size of the portfolio.
Industry and geographic concentration limits are in
place and intended to ensure diversification of the
portfolio. All invest-

ments are approved by an
investment committee that includes executives who
are not part of the investing businesses. An
independent valuation function is responsible for
reviewing the appropriateness of the carrying
values of private equity investments in accordance
with relevant accounting policies. At December 31,
2008 and 2007, the carrying value of the private
equity businesses was $6.9 billion and
$7.2 billion, respectively, of which $483 million
and $390 million, respectively, represented
publicly traded positions. For further
information on the Private equity portfolio, see
page 63 of this Annual Report.

OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting
from inadequate or  failed processes
or systems, human factors or external events. 

Overview  
Operational risk is inherent in each of the Firm s
businesses and support activities. Operational risk
can manifest itself in various ways, including
errors, fraudulent acts, business interruptions,
inappropriate behavior of employees, or vendors
that do not perform in accordance with their
arrangements. These events could result in
financial losses and other damage to the Firm,
including reputational harm.

To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm
maintains a system of comprehensive policies and a
control framework designed to provide a sound and
well-controlled operational environment. The goal
is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels,
in light of the Firm s financial strength, the
characteristics of its businesses, the markets in
which it operates, and the competitive and
regulatory environment to which it is subject.
Notwithstanding these control measures, the Firm
incurs operational losses.

The Firm s approach to operational risk management
is intended to mitigate such losses by
supplementing traditional control-based approaches
to operational risk with risk measures, tools and
disciplines that are risk-specific, consistently
applied and utilized firmwide. Key themes are
transparency of information, escalation of key
issues and accountability for issue resolution.

The Firm s operational risk framework is supported
by Phoenix, an internally designed operational risk
software tool. Phoenix integrates the individual
components of the operational risk management
framework into a unified, web-based tool. Phoenix
enhances the capture, reporting and analysis of
operational risk data by enabling risk
identification, measurement, monitoring, reporting
and analysis to be done in an integrated manner,
thereby enabling efficiencies in the Firm s
monitoring and management of its operational risk.

For purposes of identification, monitoring,
reporting and analysis, the Firm categorizes
operational risk events as follows:

Client service and selection 

Business practices 

Fraud, theft and malice 

Execution, delivery and process management 

Employee disputes 

Disasters and public safety 

Technology and infrastructure failures 

Risk identification and measurement  
Risk identification is the recognition of the
operational risk events that management believes
may give rise to operational losses. All businesses
utilize the Firm s standard self-assessment process
and supporting architecture as a dynamic risk
management tool. The goal of the self-assessment
process is for each business to identify the key
operational risks specific to its environment and
assess the degree to which it maintains appropriate
controls. Action plans are developed for control
issues identified, and businesses are held
accountable for tracking and resolving these issues
on a timely basis.

Risk monitoring  
The Firm has a process for monitoring operational
risk-event data, permitting analysis of errors and
losses as well as trends. Such analysis, performed
both at a line-of-business level and by risk-event
type, enables identification of the causes
associated with risk events faced by the
businesses. Where available, the internal data can
be supplemented with external data for comparative
analysis with industry patterns. The data reported
enables the Firm to back-test against
self-assessment results. The Firm is a founding
member of
the Operational Riskdata eXchange Association, a
not-for-profit industry association formed for the
purpose of collecting operational loss data,
sharing data in an anonymous form and benchmarking
results back to members. Such information
supplements the Firm s ongoing operational risk
measurement and analysis.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Risk reporting and analysis  
Operational risk management reports provide timely
and accurate information, including information
about actual operational loss levels and
self-assessment results, to the lines of business
and senior management. The purpose of these reports
is to enable management to maintain operational
risk at appropriate levels within each line of
business, to escalate issues and to provide
consistent data aggregation across the Firm s
businesses and support areas.

Audit alignment  
Internal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of
audit coverage to provide an independent assessment
of the design and effectiveness of key controls
over the Firm s operations, regulatory compliance
and reporting. This includes reviewing the
operational risk framework, the effectiveness and
accuracy of the business self-assessment process
and the loss data collection and reporting
activities.

REPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT

A firm s success depends not only on its
prudent management of the liquidity, credit, market
and operational risks that are part of its business
risks, but equally on the maintenance among many
constituents   clients, investors, regulators, as
well as the general public   of a reputation for
business practices of the highest quality.
Attention to reputation always has been a key
aspect of the Firm s practices, and maintenance of
the Firm s reputation is the responsibility of
everyone at the Firm. JPMorgan Chase bolsters this
individual responsibility in many ways, including
through the Firm s Code of Conduct, training,
maintaining adherence to policies and procedures,
and oversight functions that approve transactions.
These oversight functions include a Conflicts
Office, which examines wholesale transactions with
the potential to create conflicts of interest for
the Firm, and regional reputation risk review
committees, which review certain transactions with
clients, especially complex derivatives and
structured finance transactions, that have the
potential to affect adversely the Firm s
reputation. These regional committees, whose
members are senior representatives of businesses
and control functions in the region, focus on the
purpose and effect of the transactions from the
client s point of view, with the goal that these
transactions are not used to mislead investors or
others.

Fiduciary risk management  
The risk management committees within each line of
business include in their mandate the oversight of
the legal, reputational and, where appropriate,
fiduciary risks in their businesses that may
produce significant losses or reputational damage.
The Fiduciary Risk Management function works with
the relevant line-of-business risk committees with
the goal of ensuring that businesses providing
investment or risk management products or services
that give rise to fiduciary duties to clients
perform at the appropriate standard relative to
their fiduciary relationship with a client. Of
particular focus are the policies and practices
that address a business  responsibilities to a
client, including client suitability determination;
disclosure obligations and communications; and
performance expectations with respect to risk
management products or services being provided. In
this way, the relevant line-of-business risk
committees, together with the Fiduciary Risk
Management function, provide oversight of the
Firm s efforts to monitor, measure and control the
risks that may arise in the delivery of the
products or services to clients that give rise to
such fiduciary duties, as well as those stemming
from any of the Firm s fiduciary responsibilities
to employees under the Firm s various employee
benefit plans.

Table of Contents   

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM

JPMorgan Chase s accounting policies and use of
estimates are integral to understanding its
reported results. The Firm s most complex
accounting estimates require management s judgment
to ascertain the value of assets and
liabilities. The Firm has established detailed
policies and control procedures intended to ensure
that valuation methods, including any judgments
made as part of such methods, are well-controlled,
independently reviewed and applied consistently
from period to period. In addition, the policies
and procedures are intended to ensure that the
process for changing methodologies occurs in an
appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates
for determining the value of its assets and
liabilities are appropriate. The following is a
brief description of the Firm s critical accounting
estimates involving significant valuation
judgments.

Allowance for credit losses  
JPMorgan Chase s allowance for credit losses covers
the wholesale and consumer loan portfolios, as well
as the Firm s portfolio of lending-related
commitments. The allowance for credit losses is
intended to adjust the value of the Firm s loan
assets for probable credit losses as of the balance
sheet date. For further discussion of the
methodologies used in establishing the Firm s
allowance for credit losses, see Note 15 on pages
166 168 of this Annual Report.

Wholesale loans and lending-related commitments  
The methodology for calculating both the allowance
for loan losses and the allowance for
lending-related commitments involves significant
judgment. First and foremost, it involves the
early identification of credits that are
deteriorating. Second, it involves judgment in
establishing the inputs used to estimate the
allowances. Third, it involves management judgment
to evaluate certain macroeconomic factors,
underwriting standards, and other relevant
internal and external factors affecting the credit
quality of the current portfolio and to refine
loss factors to better reflect these conditions.

The Firm uses a risk-rating system to determine the
credit quality of its wholesale loans. Wholesale
loans are reviewed for information affecting the
obligor s ability to fulfill its obligations. In
assessing the risk rating of a particular loan,
among the factors considered are the obligor s debt
capacity and financial flexibility, the level of
the obligor s earnings, the amount and sources for
repayment, the level and nature of contingencies,
management strength and the industry and geography
in which the obligor operates. These factors are
based upon an evaluation of historical and current
information, and involve subjective assessment and
interpretation. Emphasizing one factor over another
or considering additional factors could impact the
risk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.

The Firm applies its judgment to establish loss
factors used in calculating the allowances.
Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent,
verifiable data or the Firm s own historical loss
experience in its models for estimating the
allowances. Many factors can affect estimates of
loss, including volatility of loss given default,
probability of default and rating migrations.
Consideration is given as to whether the loss
estimates should be calculated as an average over
the entire credit

cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle,
as well as to which external data should be used
and when they should be used. Choosing data that
are not reflective of the Firm s specific loan
portfolio characteristics could also affect loss
estimates. The application of different inputs
would change the amount of the allowance for credit
losses determined appropriate by the Firm.

Management also applies its judgment to adjust the
loss factors derived, taking into consideration
model imprecision, external factors and economic
events that have occurred but are not yet reflected
in the loss factors by establishing ranges using
historical experience of both loss given default
and probability of default. Factors related to
concentrated and deteriorating industries also are
incorporated where relevant. These estimates are
based upon management s view of uncertainties that
relate to current macroeconomic and political
conditions, quality of underwriting standards and
other relevant internal and external factors
affecting the credit quality of the current
portfolio.

As noted on page 84 of this Annual Report, the
Firm s wholesale allowance is sensitive to the risk
rating assigned to a loan. Assuming a one-notch
downgrade in the Firm s internal risk ratings for
its entire wholesale
portfolio, the allowance for loan losses for the
wholesale portfolio would increase by approximately
$1.8 billion as of December 31, 2008. This
sensitivity analysis is hypothetical. In the Firm s
view, the likelihood of a one-notch downgrade for
all wholesale loans within a short timeframe is
remote. The purpose of this analysis is to provide
an indication of the impact of risk ratings on the
estimate of the allowance for loan losses for
wholesale loans. It is not intended to imply
management s expectation of future deterioration in
risk ratings. Given the process the Firm follows in
determining the risk ratings of its loans,
management believes the risk ratings currently
assigned to wholesale loans are appropriate.

Consumer loans and lending-related commitments  
The allowance
for credit losses for the consumer portfolio is sensitive to changes in the
economic environment, delinquency status, credit
bureau scores, the realizable value of collateral,
borrower behavior and other risk factors, and is
intended to represent management s best estimate of
incurred losses as of the balance sheet date. The credit performance of the consumer portfolio
across the entire consumer credit product spectrum
continues to be negatively affected by the economic
environment, as the weak labor market and weak
overall economic conditions have resulted in
increased delinquencies, while continued weak
housing prices have driven a significant increase
in loss severity. Significant judgment is required to estimate the
duration and severity of the current economic
downturn, as well as its potential impact on
housing prices and the labor market. While the
allowance for credit losses is highly sensitive to
both home prices and unemployment rates, in the
current market it is difficult to estimate
how potential changes in one or both of these
factors might impact the allowance for credit
losses. For example, while both factors are
important determinants of overall allowance levels,
changes in one factor or the other may not occur at
the same rate, or changes may be directionally
inconsistent such that improvement in one factor

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

may offset deterioration in the other. In
addition, changes in these factors would not
necessarily be consistent across geographies or
product types. Finally, it is difficult to predict
the extent to which changes in both or either of
these factors will ultimately impact the frequency
of losses, the severity of losses, or both, and
overall loss rates are a function of both the
frequency and severity of individual loan losses.

The allowance is calculated by applying statistical
loss factors and other risk indicators to pools of
loans with similar risk characteristics to arrive
at an estimate of incurred losses in the portfolio.
Management applies judgment to the statistical loss
estimates for each loan portfolio category using
delinquency trends and other risk characteristics
to estimate charge-offs. Management utilizes
additional statistical methods and considers
portfolio and collateral valuation trends to review
the appropriateness of the primary statistical loss
estimate.

The statistical calculation is adjusted to take
into consideration model imprecision, external
factors and current economic events that have
occurred but are not yet reflected in the factors
used to derive the statistical calculation, and is
accomplished in part by analyzing the historical
loss experience for each major product segment. In
the current economic environment, it is difficult
to predict whether historical loss experience is
indicative of future loss levels. Management
applies judgment within estimated ranges in
determining this adjustment, taking into account
the numerous uncertainties inherent in the current
economic environment. The estimated ranges and the
determination of the appropriate point within the
range are based upon management s judgment related
to uncertainties associated with current
macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of
underwriting

standards, and other relevant internal and external
factors affecting the credit quality of the
portfolio.

Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and
commodities inventory  
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of it assets and
liabilities at fair value. The majority of such
assets and liabilities are carried at fair value
on a recurring basis. In addition, certain assets
are carried at fair value on a nonrecurring
basis, including loans accounted for at the lower
of cost or fair value that are only subject to
fair value adjustments under certain
circumstances.

On January 1, 2007, the Firm adopted SFAS 157,
which established a three-level valuation hierarchy
for disclosure of fair value measurements. An
instrument s categorization within the hierarchy is
based upon the lowest level of input that is
significant to the fair value measurement.
Therefore, for instruments classified in levels 1
and 2 of the hierarchy, where inputs are
principally based on observable market data, there
is less judgment applied in arriving at a fair
value measurement. For instruments classified
within level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments are more
significant. The Firm reviews and updates the fair
value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis.
Changes from one quarter to the next related to the
observability of inputs to a fair value measurement
may result in a reclassification between hierarchy
levels.

Table of Contents   

Assets carried at fair value  

The table that follows includes the Firm s assets carried at fair value and the portion of such
assets that are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.

(a) 
       
     Includes physical commodities carried at the lower of cost or fair value. 

(b) 
       
     Includes certain securities purchased under resale agreements, certain securities
borrowed and certain other investments. 

(c) 
       
     Predominantly consists of debt financing and other loan warehouses held-for-sale
and other assets. 

(d) 
       
     Balances for which the Firm did not bear economic exposure at
December 31, 2007, were not significant. 

(e) 
       
     The Firm does not allocate the FIN 39 netting adjustment across the levels of the
fair value hierarchy. As such, the level 3 derivative receivables balance included in the
level 3 total balance is reported gross of any netting adjustments. 

(f) 
       
     Included in the table above are $95.1 billion of level 3 assets, consisting of
recurring and nonrecurring assets, carried by IB at December 31, 2008. This includes $21.2
billion of assets for which the Firm serves as an intermediary between two parties and
does not bear economic exposure. 

Valuation  

For instruments classified within level 3 of the
hierarchy, judgments may be significant. In
arriving at an estimate of fair value for an
instrument within level 3, management must first
determine the appropriate model to use. Second, due
to the lack of observability of
significant inputs, management must assess all
relevant empirical data in deriving valuation
inputs including but not limited to yield curves,
interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt
prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves.
In addition to market information, models also
incorporate transaction details, such as maturity.
Finally,

management judgment must be applied to assess the
appropriate level of valuation adjustments to
reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm s
creditworthiness, constraints on liquidity and
unobservable parameters, where relevant. The
judgments made are typically affected by the type
of product and its specific contractual terms and
the level of liquidity for the product or within
the market as a whole.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

Imprecision in estimating unobservable market
inputs can impact the amount of revenue or loss
recorded for a particular position. Furthermore,
while the Firm believes its valuation methods are
appropriate and consistent with those of other
market participants, the use of different
methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair
value of certain financial instruments could result
in a different estimate of fair value at the
reporting date. For a detailed discussion of the
determination of fair value for individual
financial instruments, see Note 4 on pages 129 133
of this Annual Report. In addition, for a further
discussion of the significant judgments and
estimates involved in the determination of the
Firm s mortgage-related exposures, see  Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair value  in Note 4
on pages 139 141 of this Annual Report.

Purchased credit-impaired loans  
JPMorgan Chase acquired, in connection with the
Washington Mutual transaction, certain loans with
evidence of deterioration of credit quality since
origination and for which it was probable, at
acquisition, that the Firm would be unable to
collect all contractually required payments
receivable. These purchased credit-impaired loans
are accounted for in accordance with SOP 03-3. Many
of the assumptions and estimates underlying the
application of SOP 03-3 are both significant and
judgmental, particularly considering the current
economic environment. The level of future home
price declines, the duration and severity of the
current economic downturn and the lack of market
liquidity and transparency are factors that have
impacted and may continue to impact these
assumptions and estimates.

Determining which loans are included in the scope
of SOP 03-3 is highly subjective and requires the
application of significant judgment. In the
Washington Mutual transaction, consumer loans with
certain attributes (e.g., higher loan-to-value
ratios, borrowers with lower FICO scores,
delinquencies) were determined to be
credit-impaired, provided that those attributes
arose subsequent to loan origination.
Wholesale loans were determined to be
credit-impaired if they met the definition of an
impaired loan under SFAS 114 at the acquisition
date. Applying SOP 03-3 to the appropriate
population of loans is important because loans
that are not within the scope of SOP 03-3 are
subject to different accounting standards.
Choosing different attributes in making the
management assessment of which loans were
credit-impaired and within the scope of SOP 03-3
could have resulted in a different (i.e., larger
or smaller) population of loans deemed
credit-impaired at the transaction date.

Loans determined to be within the scope of SOP
03-3 are initially recorded at fair value. The
Firm has estimated the fair value of these loans
by discounting the cash flows expected to be
collected at a market observable discount rate, when available,
adjusted for factors that a market participant
would consider in determining fair value. The
initial estimate of cash flows expected to be
collected entails significant management judgment,
as such cash flows were derived from assumptions
such as default rates, loss severities and the
amount and timing of prepayments. Particularly in
the current economic environment, estimating the
initial fair value of these loans was highly
subjective. The application of different
assumptions by management would have resulted in
different initial fair values.

The Firm has elected to aggregate the purchased
credit-impaired consumer loans into pools of loans
with common risk characteristics. Significant
judgment is required in evaluating whether
individual loans have common risk characteristics
for purposes of establishing these pools. Each
resulting pool is considered one loan with a
composite interest rate and estimation of cash
flows expected to be collected for purposes of
applying SOP 03-3 subsequent to acquisition. The
process of estimating cash flows expected to be
collected subsequent to acquisition is both
subjective and judgmental and may have an impact on
the recognition and measurement of impairment
losses and/or interest income. In addition, the
decision to pool these loans and the manner in
which they were pooled may have an impact on the
recognition, measurement and/or classification of
interest income and/or impairment losses.

Goodwill impairment  
Under SFAS 142, goodwill must be allocated to
reporting units and tested for impairment. SFAS 142
defines reporting units of an entity as either SFAS
131 operating segments (i.e., one level below the
SFAS 131 reportable segments as disclosed in Note
37 of this Annual Report) or one level below the
SFAS 131 operating segments. JPMorgan Chase
generally determined its reporting units to be one
level below the six major business segments
identified in Note 37 on pages 214 215 of this
Annual Report, plus Private Equity which is
included in Corporate. This determination was based
on how the Firm s operating segments are managed
and how they are reviewed by the Firm s Operating
Committee.

The Firm tests goodwill for impairment at least
annually
or more frequently if events or circumstances, such
as adverse changes in the business climate,
indicate that there may be justification for
conducting an interim test. The first part of the
test is a comparison, at the reporting unit level,
of the fair value of each reporting unit to its
carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair
value is less than the carrying value, then the
second part of the test is needed to measure the
amount of potential goodwill impairment. The
implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill
is calculated and compared with the carrying amount
of goodwill recorded in the Firm s financial
records. If the carrying value of the reporting
unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of
that goodwill, then the Firm would recognize an
impairment loss in the amount of the difference,
which would be recorded as a charge against net
income.

If the fair value of the reporting unit in the
first part of the test is determined to be greater
than the carrying amount of the reporting unit
including goodwill, then and in accordance with
SFAS 142 goodwill is deemed not to be impaired.
During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Firm
performed its annual goodwill impairment testing
and concluded that the fair value of each of its
reporting units was in excess of their respective
carrying values including goodwill. Accordingly,
the Firm concluded that its goodwill was not
impaired at December 31, 2008.

Table of Contents   

The Firm considers discounted cash flow models
to be its primary method of determining the fair
value of its reporting units. The models project
levered cash flows for five years and use the
perpetuity growth method to calculate terminal
values. The first year s projected cash flows are
based on the reporting units  internal budget
forecasts for the upcoming calendar year (which are
reviewed with the Operating Committee of the Firm).
To assess the reasonableness of the valuations
derived from the discounted cash flow models, the
Firm also analyzes market-based trading and
transaction multiples, where available. These
trading and transaction comparables are used to
assess the reasonableness of the estimated fair
values, as observable market information is
generally not available.

JPMorgan Chase s stock price, consistent with stock
prices in the broader financial services sector,
declined significantly during the last half of
2008. JPMorgan Chase s market capitalization fell
below its recorded book value, principally during
the fourth quarter of 2008. Although the Firm
believes it is reasonable to conclude that market
capitalization could be an indicator of fair value
over time, the Firm is of the view that short-term
fluctuations in market capitalization do not
reflect the long-term fair value of its reporting
units.

Management applies significant judgment when
determining the fair value of its reporting units.
Imprecision in estimating the future cash flows of
the Firm s reporting units as well as the
appropriate cost of equity used to discount those
cash flows can impact their estimated fair values.
If JPMorgan Chase s common stock were to trade at the level it
was at the end of 2008 over a sustained period and weak economic market conditions
persist, these factors could indicate that the
long-term earnings

potential of the Firm s reporting units could be
adversely affected   which could result in
supplemental impairment testing during interim
reporting periods and possible impairment of
goodwill in the future.

Income taxes  
JPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of
the various jurisdictions in which it operates,
including U.S. federal, state and non-U.S.
jurisdictions. These laws are often complex and may
be subject to different interpretations. To
determine the financial statement impact of its
accounting for income taxes, including the
provision for income tax expense and its
unrecognized tax benefits, JPMorgan Chase must make
assumptions and judgments about how to interpret
and apply these complex tax laws to numerous
transactions and business events. Disputes over
interpretations with the various taxing authorities
may be settled upon audit or administrative
appeals. In some cases, the Firm s interpretations
of tax laws may be subject to adjudication by the
court systems of the tax jurisdictions in which it
operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly reviews whether
the Firm may be assessed additional income taxes as
a result of the resolution of these matters, and
the Firm records additional reserves as
appropriate.

The Firm does not anticipate that current market
events will adversely impact the realizability of
its deferred tax assets.

The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits
as necessary when additional information becomes
available. The reassessment of JPMorgan Chase s
unrecognized tax benefits may have a material
impact on its effective tax rate in the period
in which it occurs.

ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS

Derivatives netting   amendment of FASB
Interpretation No. 39  
In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1, which
permits offsetting of cash collateral receivables
or payables with net derivative positions under
certain circumstances. The Firm adopted FSP FIN
39-1 effective January 1, 2008. The FSP did not
have a material impact on the Firm s Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

Accounting for income tax benefits of dividends on
share-based payment awards  
In June 2007, the FASB ratified EITF 06-11, which
must be applied prospectively for dividends
declared in fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2007. EITF 06-11 requires that realized tax
benefits from dividends or dividend equivalents
paid on equity-classified share-based payment
awards that are charged to retained earnings be
recorded as an increase to additional paid-in
capital and included in the pool of excess tax
benefits
available to absorb tax deficiencies on share-based
payment awards. Prior to the issuance of EITF
06-11, the Firm did not include these tax benefits
as part of this pool of excess tax benefits. The
Firm adopted EITF 06-11 on January 1, 2008. The
adoption of this consensus did not have an impact
on the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets or
results of operations.

Fair value measurements   written loan commitments  
In November 2007, the SEC issued SAB 109, which
revises and rescinds portions of SAB 105.
Specifically, SAB 109 states that the expected net
future cash flows related to the associated
servicing of the loan should be included in the
measurement of all written loan commitments that
are accounted for at fair value through earnings.
The provisions of SAB 109 are applicable to
written loan commitments issued or modified
beginning on January 1, 2008. The Firm adopted SAB
109 on January 1, 2008. The adoption of this
pronouncement did not have a material impact on
the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets or results
of operations.

Business combinations/noncontrolling interests in
consolidated financial statements  
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141R and
SFAS 160, which amend the accounting and reporting
of business combinations, as well as noncontrolling
(i.e., minority) interests. For JPMorgan Chase,
SFAS 141R is effective for business combinations
that close on or after January 1, 2009. SFAS 160 is
effective for JPMorgan Chase for fiscal years
beginning on or after December 15, 2008.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

SFAS 141R will generally only impact the
accounting for future business combinations and
will impact certain aspects of business combination
accounting, such as transaction costs and certain
merger-related restructuring reserves, as well as
the accounting for partial acquisitions where
control is obtained by JPMorgan Chase. One
exception to the prospective application of SFAS
141R relates to accounting for income taxes
associated with business combinations that closed
prior to January 1, 2009. Once the purchase
accounting measurement period closes for these
acquisitions, any further adjustments to income
taxes recorded as part of these business
combinations will impact income tax expense.
Previously, further adjustments were predominately
recorded as adjustments to Goodwill. JPMorgan Chase
will continue to evaluate the impact that SFAS 141R
will have on its consolidated financial statements.

SFAS 160 requires that noncontrolling interests be
accounted for and presented as equity, rather than
as a liability or mezzanine equity. Changes to how
the income statement is presented will also result.
SFAS 160 presentation and disclosure requirements
are to be
applied retrospectively. The adoption of this
pronouncement is not expected to have a material
impact on the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets,
results of operations or ratios.

Accounting for transfers of financial assets and
repurchase financing transactions  
In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-3,
which requires an initial transfer of a financial
asset and a repurchase financing that was entered
into contempora-neously with, or in contemplation
of, the initial transfer to be evaluated together
as a linked transaction under SFAS 140, unless
certain criteria are met. The Firm adopted FSP FAS
140-3 on January 1, 2009, for new transactions
entered into after the date of adoption. The
adoption of FSP FAS 140-3 is not expected to have a
material impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
or results of operations.

Disclosures about derivative instruments and
hedging activities   FASB Statement No. 161  
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 161, which
amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS 133.
SFAS 161 requires increased disclosures about
derivative instruments and hedging activities and
their effects on an entity s financial position,
financial performance and cash flows. SFAS 161 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after November
15, 2008, with early adoption permitted. SFAS 161
will only affect JPMorgan Chase s disclosures of
derivative instruments and related hedging
activities, and not its Consolidated Balance
Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Income or
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Determining whether instruments granted in
share-based payment transactions are
participating securities  
In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1,
which addresses whether instruments granted in
share-based payment transactions are participating
securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to
be included in the earnings allocation in computing
earnings per share under the two-class method. FSP
EITF 03-6-1 is effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2008, and interim periods within those years.
Adoption of FSP EITF
03-6-1 does not affect net income or results of
operations but may result in a reduction of basic
and/or diluted earnings per share in certain
periods.

Disclosures about credit derivatives and certain guarantees  
In September 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 133-1
and FIN 45-4. The FSP requires enhanced disclosures
about credit derivatives and guarantees to address
the potential adverse effects of changes in credit
risk on the financial position, financial
performance and cash flows of the sellers of these
instruments. The FSP is effective for reporting
periods ending after November 15, 2008, with
earlier application permitted. The disclosures required by this FSP are incorporated in this Annual Report. FSP FAS 133-1 and
FIN 45-4 only affects JPMorgan Chase s
disclosures of credit derivatives and guarantees
and not its Consolidated
Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Income
or Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows.

Determining whether an instrument (or embedded
feature) is indexed to an entity s own stock  
In September 2008, the EITF issued EITF 07-5, which
establishes a two-step process for evaluating
whether equity-linked financial instruments and
embedded features are indexed to a company s own
stock for purposes of determining whether the
derivative scope exception in SFAS 133 should be
applied. EITF 07-5 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 2008. The adoption of this
EITF is not expected to have a material impact on
the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets or results
of operations.

Accounting for transfers of financial assets and
consolidation of variable interest entities  
The FASB has been deliberating certain amendments
to both SFAS 140 and FIN 46R that may impact the
accounting for transactions that involve QSPEs and
VIEs. Among other things, the FASB is proposing to
eliminate the concept of QSPEs from both SFAS 140
and FIN 46R and make key changes to the
consolidation model of FIN 46R that will change the
method of determining which party to a VIE should
consolidate the VIE. A final standard is
expected to be issued in the second quarter of
2009, with an

Table of Contents   

expected
effective date in January 2010. Entities expected to be impacted
include revolving securitization entities, bank-administered
asset-backed commercial paper conduits, and certain mortgage
securitization entities. The Firm is monitoring the FASB s
deliberations on these proposed amendments and continues to evaluate
their potential impact. The ultimate impact to the Firm will depend
upon the guidance issued by the FASB in a final statement amending
SFAS 140 and FIN 46R.

Determining the fair value of an asset when the
market for that asset is not active  
In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-3,
which clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in a
market that is not active and provides an example
to illustrate key considerations in determining the
fair value of a financial instrument when the
market for that financial asset is not active. The
FSP was effective upon issuance, including prior
periods for which financial statements have not
been issued. The application of this FSP did not
have an impact on the Firm s Consolidated Balance
Sheets or results of operations.

Disclosure about transfers of financial assets and
interests in VIEs  
On December 11, 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-4
and FIN 46(R)-8, which requires additional
disclosures relating to transfers of financial
assets and interests in
securitization entities and other variable interest
entities. The purpose of this FSP is to require
improved disclosure by public enterprises prior to
the effective dates of the proposed amendments to
SFAS 140 and FIN 46(R). The effective date for the
FSP is for reporting periods (interim and
annual) beginning with the first reporting period
that ends after December 15, 2008. The disclosures
required by this FSP are incorporated in this
Annual Report. FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 only affects JPMorgan Chase s disclosure of
transfers of financial assets and interests in
securitization entities and other variable interest
entities and not its Consolidated Balance Sheets,
Consolidated Statements of Income or Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows.

Employers  disclosures about postretirement
benefit plan assets  
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1,
which requires more detailed disclosures about
employers  plan assets, including investment
strategies, major categories of plan assets,
concentrations of risk within plan assets, and
valuation techniques used to measure the fair value
of plan assets. This FSP is effective for fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2009. The Firm
intends to adopt these additional disclosure
requirements on the effective date.

Amendments
to the impairment guidance of EITF Issue No.
99-20  
In January 2009, the FASB issued FSP EITF 99-20-1,
which amends the impairment guidance in EITF 99-20
to make the investment security impairment model in
EITF 99-20 more consistent with the securities
impairment model in SFAS 115. FSP EITF 99-20-1
removes the requirement that a holder s best
estimate of cash flows be based exclusively upon
those that a market participant would use and
allows for reasonable judgment to be applied in
considering whether an adverse change in cash flows
has occurred based on all available information
relevant to the collectibility of the security. FSP
EITF 99-20-1 is effective for interim and annual periods ending after
December 15, 2008, and therefore the Firm has adopted FSP EITF 99-20-1
as of December 31, 2008. The adoption of this
FSP did not have a material impact on the Firm s
Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of
operations.

Table of Contents   

Management s discussion and analysis 

NONEXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AT FAIR VALUE

In the normal course of business, JPMorgan
Chase trades nonexchange-traded commodity
derivative contracts. To determine the fair value
of these contracts, the Firm uses various fair
value estimation techniques, primarily based upon
internal models with significant observable market
parameters. The Firm s nonexchange-traded
commodity derivative contracts are primarily
energy-related.

The following table summarizes the changes in fair
value for nonexchange-traded commodity derivative
contracts for the year ended December 31, 2008.

The following table indicates the schedule
of maturities of nonexchange-traded commodity
derivative contracts at December 31, 2008.

Table of Contents   

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

From time to time, the Firm has made and will
make forward-looking statements. These statements
can be identified by the fact that they do not
relate strictly to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as
 anticipate,   target,   expect,   estimate, 
 intend,   plan,   goal,   believe,  or other words
of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements
provide JPMorgan Chase s current expectations or
forecasts of future events, circumstances, results
or aspirations. JPMorgan Chase s disclosures in
this Annual Report contain forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm
also may make forward-looking statements in its
other documents filed or furnished with the SEC. In
addition, the Firm s senior management may make
forward-looking statements orally to analysts,
investors, representatives of the media and others.

All forward-looking statements are, by their
nature, subject to risks and uncertainties, many
of which are beyond the Firm s control. JPMorgan
Chase s actual future results may differ
materially from those set forth in its
forward-looking statements. While there is no
assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties
or risk factors is complete, below are certain
factors which could cause actual results to differ
from those in the forward-looking statements.

local, regional and international business, economic and political conditions and
geopolitical events; 

changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; 

securities and capital markets behavior, including changes in market liquidity and
volatility; 

changes in investor sentiment or consumer spending or saving behavior; 

ability of the Firm to manage effectively its liquidity; 

credit ratings assigned to the Firm or its subsidiaries; 

the Firm s reputation; 

ability of the Firm to deal effectively with an economic slowdown or other economic
or market difficulty; 

technology changes instituted by the Firm, its counterparties or competitors; 

mergers and acquisitions, including the Firm s ability to integrate acquisitions; 

ability of the Firm to develop new products and services; 

acceptance of the Firm s new and existing products and services by the marketplace
and the ability of the Firm to increase market share; 

ability of the Firm to attract and retain employees; 

ability of the Firm to control expense; 

competitive pressures; 

changes in the credit quality of the Firm s customers and counterparties; 

adequacy of the Firm s risk management framework; 

changes in laws and regulatory requirements or adverse judicial proceedings; 

changes in applicable accounting policies; 

ability of the Firm to determine accurate values of certain assets and liabilities; 

occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or calamities or conflicts, including
any effect of any such disasters, calamities or conflicts on the Firm s power generation
facilities and the Firm s other commodity-related activities; 

the other risks and uncertainties detailed in Part 1, Item 1A: Risk Factors in the
Firm s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. 

Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf
of the Firm speak only as of the date they are
made, and JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to
update forward-looking statements to reflect the
impact of circumstances or events that arise after
the date the forward-looking statement was made.
The reader should, however, consult any further
disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm
may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or Current
Reports on Form 8-K.

Table of Contents   

Management s report on internal control over financial reporting 

Management of JPMorgan Chase   Co. ( JPMorgan
Chase  or the  Firm ) is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting. Internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed by,
or under the supervision of, the Firm s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar functions, and effected
by JPMorgan Chase s Board of Directors, management
and other personnel, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.

JPMorgan Chase s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records,
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
Firm s assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the Firm are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of JPMorgan Chase s management and
directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of
the Firm s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

Management has completed an assessment of the
effectiveness of the Firm s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In
making the assessment, management used the
framework in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  promulgated by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission, commonly referred to as the  COSO 
criteria.

Based upon the assessment performed, management
concluded that as of December 31, 2008, JPMorgan
Chase s internal control over financial reporting
was effective based upon the COSO criteria.
Additionally, based upon management s assessment,
the Firm determined that there were no material
weaknesses in its internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2008.

The effectiveness of the Firm s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008,
has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as
stated in their report which appears herein.

James Dimon 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Michael J. Cavanagh 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 27, 2009

Table of Contents   

Report of independent registered public accounting firm 

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of JPMorgan Chase   Co.: 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in stockholders 
equity and comprehensive income and cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of JPMorgan Chase   Co. and its
subsidiaries (the  Firm ) at December 31, 2008 and
2007, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. Also in our opinion, the
Firm maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria
established in Internal Control   Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
The Firm s management is responsible for these
financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying  Management s report on internal
control over financial reporting.  Our
responsibility is to express opinions on these
financial statements and on the Firm s internal
control over financial reporting based on our
integrated audits. We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the financial
statements included examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinions.

As discussed in Note 4, Note 5, and Note 28 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, effective
January 1, 2007 the Firm adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value
Measurement,  Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities,  and FASB
Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes. 

A company s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company s assets that could have
a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

February 27, 2009

Table of Contents   

Consolidated statements of income 

The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.

Table of Contents   

Consolidated balance sheets 

The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.

Table of Contents   

Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders  equity and comprehensive
income 

The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.

Table of Contents   

Consolidated statements of cash flows 

Note: 
       
     In 2008, the fair values of noncash assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the merger
with Bear Stearns were $288.2 billion and $287.7 billion, respectively; approximately 26 million
shares of common stock, valued at approximately $1.2 billion, were issued in connection with the
Bear Stearns merger. Also, in 2008 the fair values of noncash assets acquired and liabilities
assumed in the Washington Mutual transaction were $260.0 billion and $259.8 billion, respectively.
In 2006, the Firm exchanged selected corporate trust businesses for The Bank of New York s
consumer, business banking and middle-market banking businesses. The fair values of the noncash
assets exchanged were $2.15 billion. 

The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Note 1   Basis of presentation 

JPMorgan Chase   Co. ( JPMorgan Chase  or the
 Firm ), a financial holding company incorporated
under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global
financial services firm and one of the largest
banking institutions in the United States of
America ( U.S. ), with operations worldwide. The
Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial
services for consumers and businesses, financial
transaction processing and asset management. For a
discussion of the Firm s business segment
information, see Note 37 on pages 214 215 of this
Annual Report.

The accounting and financial reporting policies of
JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries conform to
accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ).
Additionally, where applicable, the policies
conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines
prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.

Certain amounts in prior periods have been
reclassified to conform to the current
presentation.

Consolidation  
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the
accounts of JPMorgan Chase and other entities in
which the Firm has a controlling financial
interest. All material intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated.

The usual condition for a controlling financial
interest is the ownership of a majority of the
voting interests of the entity. However, a
controlling financial interest also may be deemed
to exist with respect to entities, such as
special purpose entities ( SPEs ), through
arrangements that do not involve controlling voting
interests.

SPEs are an important part of the financial
markets, providing market liquidity by facilitating
investors  access to specific portfolios of assets
and risks. For example, they are critical to the
functioning of the mortgage- and asset-backed
securities and commercial paper markets. SPEs may
be organized as trusts, partnerships or
corporations and are typically established for a
single, discrete purpose. SPEs are not typically
operating entities and usually have a limited life
and no employees. The basic SPE structure involves
a company selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds
the purchase of those assets by issuing securities
to investors. The legal documents that govern the
transaction specify how the cash earned on the
assets must be allocated to the SPE s investors and
other parties that have rights to those cash flows.
SPEs are generally structured to insulate investors
from claims on the SPE s assets by creditors of
other entities, including the creditors of the
seller of the assets.

There are two different accounting frameworks
applicable to SPEs: The qualifying SPE ( QSPE )
framework under SFAS 140 and the variable interest
entity ( VIE ) framework under FIN 46R. The
applicable framework depends on the nature of the
entity and the Firm s relation to that entity. The
QSPE framework is applicable when an entity
transfers (sells) financial assets to an SPE
meeting certain criteria defined in SFAS 140. These
criteria are designed to ensure that the activities
of the entity are essentially predetermined at the
inception of the vehicle and that the transferor of
the financial assets cannot exercise control over
the entity and the assets therein. Entities

meeting these criteria are not consolidated by the
transferor or other counterparties as long as they
do not have the unilateral ability to liquidate or
to cause the entity to no longer meet the QSPE
criteria. The Firm
primarily follows the QSPE model for
securitizations of its residential and commercial
mortgages, and credit card, automobile and student
loans. For further details, see Note 16 on pages
168 176 of this Annual Report.

When an SPE does not meet the QSPE criteria,
consolidation is assessed pursuant to FIN 46R.
Under FIN 46R, a VIE is defined as an entity that:
(1) lacks enough equity investment at risk to
permit the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from
other parties; (2) has equity owners that lack the
right to make significant decisions affecting the
entity s operations; and/or (3) has equity owners
that do not have an obligation to absorb the
entity s losses or the right to receive the
entity s returns.

FIN 46R requires a variable interest holder (i.e.,
a counterparty to a VIE) to consolidate the VIE if
that party will absorb a majority of the expected
losses of the VIE, receive the majority of the
expected residual returns of the VIE, or both. This
party is considered the primary beneficiary. In
making this determination, the Firm thoroughly
evaluates the VIE s design, capital structure
and relationships among the variable interest
holders. When the primary beneficiary cannot be
identified through a qualitative analysis, the Firm
performs a quantitative analysis, which computes
and allocates expected losses or residual returns
to variable interest holders. The allocation of
expected cash flows in this analysis is based upon
the relative rights and preferences of each
variable interest holder in the VIE s capital
structure. The Firm reconsiders whether it is the
primary beneficiary of a VIE when certain events
occur as required by FIN 46R. For further details,
see Note 17 on pages 177 186 of this Annual
Report.

All retained interests and significant transactions
between the Firm, QSPEs and nonconsolidated VIEs
are reflected on JPMorgan Chase s Consolidated
Balance Sheets and in the Notes to consolidated
financial statements.

Investments in companies that are considered to be
voting-interest entities under FIN 46R in which the
Firm has significant influence over operating and
financing decisions are either accounted for in
accordance with the equity method of accounting or
at fair value if elected under SFAS 159 ( Fair
Value Option ). These investments are generally
included in other assets, with income or loss
included in other income.

For a discussion of the accounting for private
equity investments, see Note 6 on pages 147 148 of
this Annual Report.

Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary
capacity by the Firm are not assets of JPMorgan
Chase and are not included in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

Use of estimates in the preparation of
consolidated financial statements  
The preparation of Consolidated Financial
Statements requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, revenue and expense, and
disclosures

Table of Contents   

of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results
could be different from these estimates. For
discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates used by
the Firm, see pages 107 111 of this Annual Report.

Foreign currency translation  
JPMorgan Chase revalues assets, liabilities,
revenue and expense denominated in non-U.S.
currencies into U.S. dollars using applicable
exchange rates.

Gains and losses relating to translating functional
currency financial statements for U.S. reporting
are included in other comprehensive income (loss)
within stockholders  equity. Gains and losses
relating to nonfunctional currency transactions,
including non-U.S. operations where the functional
currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Foreclosed property  
The Firm acquires property from borrowers through
loan restructurings, workouts, and foreclosures.
Property acquired may include real property (e.g.,
land, buildings, and fixtures) and personal
property
(e.g., aircraft, railcars, and ships). Acquired
property is valued at fair value less costs to
sell at acquisition. Each quarter the fair value
of the acquired property is reviewed and adjusted,
if necessary. Any adjustments to fair value in the
first 90 days are credited/charged to the
allowance for loan losses and thereafter to other
expense.

Statements of cash flows  
For JPMorgan Chase s Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows, cash is defined as those amounts
included in cash and due from banks.

Significant accounting policies  
The following table identifies JPMorgan Chase s
other significant accounting policies and the Note
and page where a detailed description of each
policy can be found.

Note 2   Business changes and
developments 

Decrease in Common Stock Dividend  
On February 23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the
Firm s quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 per
share, effective for the dividend payable April 30, 2009 to
shareholders of record on April 6, 2009.

Acquisition of the banking operations of
Washington Mutual Bank  On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the
banking operations of Washington Mutual Bank
( Washington Mutual ) from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) for $1.9 billion.
The acquisition expands JPMorgan Chase s consumer
branch network into several states, including
California, Florida and Washington, among others.
The acquisition also extends the reach of the
Firm s business banking, commercial banking, credit
card, consumer lending and wealth management
businesses. The acquisition was accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting in accordance
with SFAS 141.

The $1.9 billion purchase price was allocated to
the Washington Mutual assets acquired and
liabilities assumed using preliminary allocated
values as of
September 25, 2008, which resulted in negative
goodwill. The initial allocation of the purchase
price was presented on a preliminary basis at
September 30, 2008, due to the short time period
between the closing of the transaction (which
occurred simultaneously with its announcement on
September 25, 2008) and the end of the third
quarter. In accordance with SFAS 141, noncurrent
nonfinancial assets that are not held-for-sale,
such as the premises and equipment and other
intangibles, acquired in the Washington Mutual
transaction were written down against the negative
goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained after
writing down the nonfinancial assets was recognized
as an extraordinary gain. As a result of the
refinement of the purchase price allocation during
the fourth quarter of 2008, the initial
extraordinary gain of $581 million was increased
$1.3 billion to $1.9 billion. The computation of
the purchase price and the allocation of the
purchase price to the net assets acquired in the
Washington Mutual transaction   based upon their
respective values as of September 25, 2008, and the
resulting negative goodwill   are presented below.
The allocation of the purchase price may be
modified through September 25, 2009, as more
information is obtained about the fair value of
assets acquired and liabilities assumed.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

(a) 
       
     The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with
SFAS 141. SFAS 141 requires the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities
(including executory contracts and other commitments) of an acquired business as of the effective
date of the acquisition to be recorded at their respective fair values and consolidated with those
of JPMorgan Chase. The fair value of the net assets of Washington Mutual s banking operations
exceeded the $1.9 billion purchase price, resulting in negative goodwill. In accordance with SFAS
141, noncurrent, nonfinancial assets not held-for-sale, such as premises and equipment and other
intangibles, were written down against the negative goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained
after writing down transaction related core deposit intangibles of approximately $4.9 billion and
premises and equipment of approximately $3.2 billion was recognized as an extraordinary gain of
$1.9 billion. 

(b) 
       
     The extraordinary gain was recorded in Corporate/Private Equity. 

The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the value assigned to the
Washington Mutual net assets as of September 25, 2008.

Table of Contents   

Merger with The Bear Stearns Companies Inc.  
Effective May 30, 2008, BSC Merger Corporation, a
wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase, merged
with The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. ( Bear
Stearns ) pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of
Merger, dated as of March 16, 2008, as amended
March 24, 2008, and Bear Stearns became a wholly
owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase. The merger
provided the Firm with a leading global prime
brokerage platform; strengthened the Firm s
equities and asset management businesses; enhanced
capabilities in mortgage origination,
securitization and servicing; and expanded the
platform of the Firm s energy business. The merger
is being accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting, which requires that the assets and
liabilities of Bear Stearns be fair valued. The
total purchase price to
complete the merger was $1.5 billion.

The merger with Bear Stearns was accomplished
through a series of transactions that were
reflected as step acquisitions in accordance with
SFAS 141. On April 8, 2008, pursuant to the share
exchange agreement, JPMorgan Chase acquired 95
million newly issued shares of Bear Stearns common
stock (or 39.5% of Bear Stearns common stock after
giving effect to the issuance) for 21 million
shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock. Further,
between March 24, 2008, and May 12, 2008, JPMorgan
Chase acquired approximately 24 million shares of
Bear Stearns common stock in the open market at an
average purchase price of $12.37 per share. The
share exchange and cash purchase transactions
resulted in JPMorgan Chase owning approximately
49.4% of Bear Stearns common stock immediately
prior to consummation of the merger. Finally, on
May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase completed the merger.
As a result of the merger, each outstanding share
of Bear Stearns common stock (other than shares
then held by JPMorgan Chase) was converted into the
right to receive 0.21753 shares of common stock of
JPMorgan Chase. Also, on May 30, 2008, the shares
of common stock that JPMorgan Chase and Bear
Stearns acquired from each other in the share
exchange transaction were cancelled. From April 8,
2008, through May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase
accounted for the investment in Bear Stearns under
the equity method of accounting in accordance with
APB 18. During this period, JPMorgan Chase recorded
reductions to its investment in Bear Stearns
representing its share of Bear Stearns net losses,
which was recorded in other income and accumulated
other comprehensive income.

In conjunction with the Bear Stearns merger, in
June 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
(the
 FRBNY ) took control, through a limited liability
company ( LLC ) formed for this purpose, of a
portfolio of $30 billion in assets acquired from
Bear Stearns, based on the value of the portfolio
as of March 14, 2008. The assets of the LLC were
funded by a $28.85 billion term loan from the
FRBNY, and a $1.15 billion subordinated loan from
JPMorgan Chase. The JPMorgan Chase note is
subordinated to the FRBNY loan and will bear the
first $1.15 billion of any losses of the portfolio.
Any remaining assets in the portfolio after
repayment of the FRBNY loan, the JPMorgan Chase
note and the expense of the LLC will be for the
account of the FRBNY.

As a result of step acquisition accounting,
the total $1.5 billion purchase price was allocated
to the Bear Stearns assets acquired and liabilities
assumed using their fair values as of April 8,
2008, and May 30, 2008, respectively. The summary
computation of the purchase price and the
allocation of the purchase price to the net assets
of Bear Stearns are presented below. The allocation
of the purchase price may be modified through May
30, 2009, as more information is obtained about the
fair value of assets acquired and liabilities
assumed.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

(in millions, except for shares (in thousands), per share amounts and where otherwise noted) 

Purchase price 

Shares exchanged in the Share Exchange transaction (April 8, 2008)

95,000 

Other Bear Stearns shares outstanding

145,759 

Total Bear Stearns stock outstanding

240,759 

Cancellation of shares issued in the Share Exchange transaction

(95,000 
     ) 

Cancellation of shares acquired by JPMorgan Chase for cash in the open market

(24,061 
     ) 

Bear Stearns common stock exchanged as of May 30, 2008

121,698 

Exchange ratio

0.21753 

JPMorgan Chase common stock issued

26,473 

Average purchase price per JPMorgan Chase common share (a) 

$ 
     45.26 

Total fair value of JPMorgan Chase common stock issued

$ 
     1,198 

Bear Stearns common stock acquired for cash in the open market (24 million
shares at an
average share price of $12.37 per share)

298 

Fair value of employee stock awards (largely to be settled by shares held in
the RSU Trust (b) )

242 

Direct acquisition costs

27 

Less: Fair value of Bear Stearns common stock held in the RSU Trust and
included in
the exchange of common stock

(269 
     ) (b)  

Total purchase price 

1,496 

Net assets acquired 

Bear Stearns common stockholders  equity

$ 
     6,052 

Adjustments to reflect assets acquired at fair value: 

Trading assets

(3,831 
     ) 

Premises and equipment

497 

Other assets

(235 
     ) 

Adjustments to reflect liabilities assumed at fair value: 

Long-term debt

504 

Other liabilities

(2,252 
     ) 

Fair value of net assets acquired excluding goodwill 

735 

Goodwill resulting from the merger  (c) 

$ 
     761 

(a) 
       
     The value of JPMorgan Chase common stock was determined by averaging the closing
prices of JPMorgan Chase s common stock for the four trading days during the period March
19, 2008, through March 25, 2008. 

(b) 
       
     Represents shares of Bear Stearns common stock held in an irrevocable grantor
trust (the  RSU Trust ) to be used to settle stock awards granted to selected employees
and certain key executives under certain heritage Bear Stearns employee stock plans.
Shares in the RSU Trust were exchanged for 6 million shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock
at the merger exchange ratio of 0.21753. For further discussion of the RSU trust, see Note
10 on pages 155 158 of this Annual Report. 

(c) 
       
     The goodwill was recorded in the Investment Bank. 

Table of Contents   

Condensed statement of net assets acquired  
The following reflects the value assigned to Bear
Stearns net assets as of the merger date.

(a) 
       
     Reflects the fair value assigned to 49.4% of the Bear Stearns net assets acquired
on April 8, 2008 (net of related amortization), and the fair value assigned to the
remaining 50.6% of the Bear Stearns net assets acquired on May 30, 2008. The difference
between the Bear Stearns net assets acquired as presented above and the fair value of the
net assets acquired (including goodwill) presented in the previous table represents
JPMorgan Chase s net losses recorded under the equity method of accounting. 

Unaudited pro forma condensed combined
financial information reflecting Bear Stearns
merger and Washington Mutual transaction  
The following unaudited pro forma condensed
combined financial information presents the results
of operations of the Firm as they may have appeared
if the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington
Mutual transaction had been completed on January 1,
2008, and January 1, 2007.

(a) 
       
     Common equivalent shares have been excluded from the pro forma computation of
diluted loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2008, as the effect would be
antidilutive. 

The unaudited pro forma combined financial
information is presented for illustrative purposes
only and does not indicate the financial results of
the combined company had the companies actually
been combined as of January 1, 2008, or as of
January 1, 2007, nor is it indicative of the
results of operations in future periods. Included
in the unaudited pro forma combined financial
information for the years ended December 31, 2008
and 2007, were pro forma adjustments to reflect the
results of operations of Bear Stearns, and
Washington Mutual s banking operations, considering
the purchase accounting, valuation and accounting
conformity adjustments related to each transaction.
For the Washington Mutual transaction, the
amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to
report interest-earnings assets acquired and
interest-bearing liabilities assumed at current
interest rates is reflected in all periods
presented. Valuation adjustments and the adjustment
to conform allowance methodologies in the
Washington Mutual transaction, and valuation and
accounting conformity adjustments related to the
Bear Stearns merger are reflected in the results
for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Internal reorganization related to the Bear Stearns merger  
On June 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase fully and
unconditionally guaranteed each series of
outstanding preferred stock of Bear Stearns, as
well as all of Bear Stearns  outstanding Securities
and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) registered U.S.
debt securities and obligations relating to trust
preferred capital debt securities. Subsequently, on
July 15, 2008, JPMorgan Chase completed an internal
merger transaction, which resulted in each series
of outstanding preferred stock of Bear Stearns
being automatically exchanged into newly issued
shares of JPMorgan Chase preferred stock having
substantially identical terms. Depositary shares,
which formerly had represented a one-fourth
interest in a share of Bear Stearns preferred
stock, continue to trade on the New York Stock
Exchange but following completion of this internal
merger transaction, represent a one-fourth interest
in a share of JPMorgan Chase preferred stock. In
addition, on July 31, 2008, JPMorgan Chase assumed
(1) all of Bear Stearns  then-outstanding
SEC-registered U.S. debt securities; (2) Bear
Stearns  obligations relating to trust preferred
capital debt securities; (3) certain of Bear
Stearns  then-outstanding foreign debt securities;
and (4) certain of Bear Stearns  guarantees of
then-outstanding foreign debt securities issued by
subsidiaries of Bear Stearns, in each case, in
accordance with the agreements and indentures
governing these securities. JPMorgan Chase also
guaranteed Bear Stearns  obligations under Bear Stearns  U.S. $30.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note
Programme and U.S. $4.0 billion Euro Note Issuance
Programme.

Other business events 

Termination of Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture  
The dissolution of Chase Paymentech Solutions joint
venture, a global payments and merchant acquiring
joint venture between JPMorgan Chase and First Data
Corporation, was completed on November 1, 2008.
JPMorgan Chase retained approximately 51% of the
business and will operate the business under the
name Chase Paymentech Solutions. The dissolution of
Chase Paymentech

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Solutions joint venture was accounted for as a
step acquisition in accordance with SFAS 141, and
the Firm recognized an after-tax gain of $627
million in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result
of the dissolution. The gain represents the amount
by which the fair value of the net assets acquired
(predominantly intangible assets and goodwill)
exceeded JPMorgan Chase s book basis in the net
assets transferred to First Data Corporation. Upon
dissolution, the Firm began to consolidate the
retained Chase Paymentech Solutions business.

Proceeds from Visa Inc. shares  
On March 19, 2008, Visa Inc. ( Visa ) completed
its initial public offering ( IPO ). Prior to the
IPO, JPMorgan Chase held approximately a 13%
equity interest in Visa. On March 28, 2008, Visa
used a portion of the proceeds from the offering
to redeem a portion of the Firm s equity interest,
which resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax
gain of $1.5 billion (recorded in other income).
In conjunction with the IPO, Visa placed $3.0
billion in escrow to cover liabilities related to
certain litigation matters. The escrow was
increased by $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008.
JPMorgan Chase s interest in the escrow was
recorded as a reduction of other expense and
reported net to the extent of established
litigation reserves.

Purchase of additional interest in Highbridge
Capital Management  
In January 2008, JPMorgan Chase purchased an
additional equity interest in Highbridge Capital
Management, LLC ( Highbridge ). As a result, the
Firm currently owns 77.5% of Highbridge.

Acquisition of the consumer, business banking and
middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of
New York in exchange for selected corporate trust
businesses, including trustee, paying agent, loan
agency and document management services  
On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase completed the
acquisition of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s
( The Bank of New York ) consumer, business and
middle-market banking businesses in exchange for
selected corporate trust businesses plus a cash
payment of $150 million. The transaction also included a
contingent payment payable to The Bank of New York;
the amount due of $25 million was paid in 2008. The
acquisition added 339 branches and more than 400
ATMs, and it significantly strengthened Retail
Financial Services  distribution network in the New
York tri-state area. The Bank of New York
businesses acquired were valued at a premium of
$2.3 billion; the Firm s corporate trust businesses
that were transferred (i.e., trustee, paying agent,
loan agency and document management services) were
valued at a premium of $2.2 billion. This
transaction included the acquisition of
approximately $7.7 billion in loans net of
allowance for loan losses and $12.9 billion in
deposits from the Bank of New York. The Firm also
recognized core deposit intangibles of $485
million, which are being amortized using an
accelerated method over a 10-year period. JPMorgan
Chase recorded an after-tax gain of $622 million on
this transaction in the fourth quarter of 2006. For
additional discussion related to the transaction,
see Note 3 on pages 128 129 of this Annual Report.

JPMorgan Partners management  
On August 1, 2006, the buyout and growth equity
professionals of JPMorgan Partners ( JPMP ) formed
an independent firm, CCMP Capital, LLC ( CCMP ),
and the venture professionals separately formed an
independent firm, Panorama Capital, LLC
( Panorama ). The investment professionals of CCMP
and Panorama continue to manage the former JPMP
investments pursuant to a management agreement
with the Firm.

Sale of insurance underwriting business  
On July 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase completed the sale
of its life insurance and annuity underwriting
businesses to Protective Life Corporation for cash
proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion, consisting
of $900 million of cash received from Protective
Life Corporation and approximately $300 million of
preclosing dividends received from the entities
sold. The after-tax impact of this transaction was
negligible. The sale included both the heritage
Chase insurance business and the insurance business
that Bank One had bought from Zurich Insurance in
2003.

Acquisition of private-label credit card portfolio
from Kohl s Corporation  
On April 21, 2006, JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of
$1.6 billion of private-label credit card
receivables and approximately 21 million accounts
from Kohl s Corporation ( Kohl s ). JPMorgan Chase
and Kohl s also entered into an agreement under
which JPMorgan Chase is offering private-label
credit cards to both new and existing Kohl s
customers.

Collegiate Funding Services  
On March 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired, for
approximately $663 million, Collegiate Funding
Services, a leader in student loan servicing and
consolidation. This acquisition included $6
billion of student loans.

Note 3
  Discontinued operations 

On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase completed
the acquisition of The Bank of New York s consumer,
small-business and middle-market banking businesses
in exchange for selected corporate trust
businesses. Refer to Note 2 on pages 123 128 of
this Annual Report for additional information.

In anticipation of the close of the transaction on
October 1, 2006, effective with the second quarter
of 2006, the results of operations of these
corporate trust businesses were transferred from
the Treasury   Securities Services ( TSS ) segment
to the Corporate/Private Equity segment, and
reported as discontinued operations. Condensed
financial information of the selected corporate
trust businesses follows.

Table of Contents   

The following is a summary of the assets and
liabilities associated with the selected
corporate trust businesses related to the Bank of
New York transaction that closed on October 1,
2006.

JPMorgan Chase provides certain transitional
services to The Bank of New York for a defined
period of time after the closing date. The Bank of
New York compensates JPMorgan Chase for these
transitional services.

Note 4
  Fair value measurement 

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157 ( Fair Value Measurements ), which was effective for fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2007, with early
adoption permitted. The Firm chose early adoption
for SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2007. SFAS 157:

Defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date, and establishes a framework for measuring fair value; 

Establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the
transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement
date; 

Nullifies the guidance in EITF 02-3, which required the deferral of profit at
inception of a transaction involving a derivative financial instrument in the absence of
observable data supporting the valuation technique; 

Eliminates large position discounts for financial instruments quoted in active
markets and requires consideration of the Firm s creditworthiness when valuing
liabilities; and 

Expands disclosures about instruments measured at fair value. 

The Firm also chose early adoption for SFAS 159
effective January 1, 2007. SFAS 159 provides an
option to elect fair value as an alternative
measurement for selected financial assets,
financial liabilities, unrecognized firm
commitments and written loan commitments not
previously recorded at fair value. The Firm elected
fair value accounting for certain assets and
liabilities not previously carried at fair value.
For more information, see Note 5 on pages 144 146
of this Annual Report.

The following is a description of the Firm s
valuation methodologies for assets and liabilities
measured at fair value.

The Firm has an established and well-documented
process for determining fair values. Fair value is
based upon quoted market prices, where available.
If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair
value is based upon internally developed models
that primarily use, as inputs, market-based or
independently sourced market parameters, including
but not limited to yield curves, interest rates,
volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign
exchange rates and credit curves. In addition to
market information, models also incorporate
transaction details, such as maturity of the
instrument. Valuation adjustments may be made to
ensure that financial instruments are recorded at
fair value. These adjustments include amounts to
reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm s
creditworthiness, constraints on liquidity and
unobservable parameters. Valuation adjustments are
applied consistently over time.

Credit valuation adjustments ( CVA ) are necessary when the market price (or
parameter) is not indicative of the credit quality of the counterparty. As few classes of
derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the majority of derivative positions are
valued using internally developed models that use as their basis observable market
parameters. Market practice is to quote parameters equivalent to a  AA  credit rating
whereby all counterparties are assumed to have the same credit quality. Therefore, an
adjustment is necessary to reflect the credit quality of each derivative counterparty to
arrive at fair value. The adjustment also takes into account contractual factors designed
to reduce the Firm s credit exposure to each counterparty, such as collateral and legal
rights of offset. 

Debit valuation adjustments ( DVA ) are necessary to reflect the credit quality of
the Firm in the valuation of liabilities measured at fair value. This adjustment was
incorporated into the Firm s valuations commencing January 1, 2007, in accordance with
SFAS 157. The methodology to determine the adjustment is consistent with CVA and
incorporates JPMorgan Chase s credit spread as observed through the credit default swap
market. 

Liquidity valuation adjustments are necessary when the Firm may not be able to
observe a recent market price for a financial instrument that trades in inactive (or less
active) markets or to reflect the cost of exiting larger-than-normal market-size risk
positions (liquidity adjustments are not taken for positions classified within level 1 of
the fair value hierarchy). The Firm tries to ascertain the amount of uncertainty in the
initial valuation based upon the degree of liquidity of the market in which the financial 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

instrument trades and makes liquidity adjustments to the carrying value of the
financial instrument. The Firm measures the liquidity adjustment based upon the following
factors: (1) the amount of time since the last relevant pricing point; (2) whether there
was an actual trade or relevant external quote; and (3) the volatility of the principal
risk component of the financial instrument. Costs to exit larger-than-normal market-size
risk positions are determined based upon the size of the adverse market move that is likely
to occur during the period required to bring a position down to a nonconcentrated level. 

Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments are necessary when positions are valued
using internally developed models that use as their basis
unobservable parameters   that
is, parameters that must be estimated and are, therefore, subject to management judgment.
These positions are normally traded less actively. Examples include certain credit products where parameters such as correlation and recovery
rates are unobservable. Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments are applied to
mitigate the possibility of error and revision in the estimate of the market price provided
by the model. 

The Firm has numerous controls in place intended to
ensure that its fair valuations are appropriate. An
independent model review group reviews the Firm s
valuation models and approves them for use for
specific products. All valuation models within the
Firm are subject to this review process. A price
verification group, independent from the
risk-taking function, ensures observable market
prices and market-based parameters are used for
valuation wherever possible. For those products
with material parameter risk for which observable
market levels do not exist, an independent review
of the assumptions made on pricing is performed.
Additional review includes deconstruction of the
model valuations for certain structured instruments
into their components, and benchmarking valuations,
where possible, to similar products; validating
valuation estimates through actual cash settlement;
and detailed review and explanation of recorded
gains and losses, which are analyzed daily and over
time. Valuation adjustments, which are also
determined by the independent price verification
group, are based upon established policies and are
applied consistently over time. Any changes to the
valuation methodology are reviewed by management to
confirm the changes are justified. As markets and
products develop and the pricing for certain
products becomes more or less transparent, the Firm
continues to refine its valuation methodologies. During 2008, no material changes
were made to the Firm s valuation models.

The methods described above to estimate fair value
may produce a fair value calculation that may not
be indicative of net realizable value or reflective
of future fair values. Furthermore, while the Firm
believes its valuation methods are appropriate and
consistent with other market participants, the use
of different methodologies or assumptions to
determine the fair value of certain financial
instruments could result in a different estimate of
fair value at the reporting date.

Valuation Hierarchy  
SFAS 157 establishes a three-level valuation
hierarchy for disclosure of fair value
measurements. The valuation hierarchy is based
upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation
of an asset or liability as

of the measurement date. The three levels are defined as follows.

Level 1   inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for
identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 

Level 2   inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar
assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial
instrument. 

Level 3   inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to
the fair value measurement. For a level 3 analysis, see pages 138 139 of this Note. 

A financial instrument s categorization within the
valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level
of input that is significant to the fair value
measurement.

Following is a description of the valuation
methodologies used for instruments measured at
fair value, including the general classification
of such instruments pursuant to the valuation
hierarchy.

Assets 

Securities purchased under resale agreements
( resale agreements )  
To estimate the fair value of resale agreements,
cash flows are evaluated taking into consideration
any derivative features of the resale agreement and
are then discounted using the appropriate market
rates for the applicable maturity. As the inputs
into the valuation are primarily based upon readily
observable pricing information, such resale
agreements are generally classified within level 2
of the valuation hierarchy.

Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments  
The majority of the Firm s loans and
lending-related commitments are not carried at fair
value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets, nor are they actively traded. The
fair value of such loans and lending-related
commitments is included in the disclosures required
by SFAS 107 on pages 142 143 of this Note. Loans
carried at fair value on a recurring and
nonrecurring basis are included in the applicable
tables that follow.

Wholesale  
The fair value of loans and lending-related
commitments is calculated using observable market
information, including pricing from actual market
transactions or broker quotations where available.
Where pricing information is not available for the
specific loan, the valuation is generally based
upon quoted market prices of similar instruments,
such as loans and bonds. These comparable
instruments share characteristics that typically
include industry, rating, capital structure,
seniority, and consideration of counterparty credit
risk. In addition, general market conditions,
including prevailing market spreads for credit and
liquidity risk, are also considered in the
valuation process.

For certain loans that are expected to be
securitized, such as commercial and residential
mortgages, fair value is estimated based upon
observable pricing of asset-backed securities
( ABS ) with similar

Table of Contents   

collateral and incorporates adjustments (i.e.,
reductions) to these prices to account for
securitization uncertainties including portfolio
composition, market conditions and liquidity to
arrive at the whole loan price. When data from
recent market transactions is available it is
incorporated as appropriate. If particular loans
are not expected to be securitized they are marked
for individual sale taking into consideration
potential liquidation proceeds and property
repossession/liquidation information, as
appropriate. For further discussion of the
valuation of mortgage loans carried at fair value,
see the  Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair
value  section of this Note on pages 139 141.

The Firm s loans carried at fair value and reported
in trading assets are largely classified within
level 3 due to the lack of observable pricing.
Loans carried at fair value and reported in loans
including leveraged lending funded loans,
high-yield bridge financing and purchased
non-performing loans held in the Investment Bank
( IB ) are classified within level 2 or 3 of the
valuation hierarchy depending on the level of
liquidity and activity in the markets for a
particular product.

Consumer  
Fair values for consumer installment loans
(including automobile financings and consumer real
estate not expected to be securitized), for which
market rates for comparable loans are readily
available, are based upon discounted cash flows
adjusted for prepayment assumptions. The discount
rates used for consumer installment loans are based
on current market rates for new originations of
comparable loans. Fair value for credit card
receivables is based upon discounted expected cash
flows. The discount rates used for credit card
receivables incorporate only the effects of
interest rate changes, since the expected cash
flows already reflect an adjustment for credit
risk. Consumer installment loans and credit card
receivables that are not carried on the balance sheet at
fair value are not classified
within the fair value hierarchy. For further discussion of the
valuation of mortgage loans carried at fair value, see the
 Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair value  section of
this Note.

Securities  
Where quoted prices for identical securities are
available in an active market, securities are
classified in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.
Level 1 securities include highly liquid government
bonds, mortgage products for which there are quoted
prices in active markets (such as U.S. government
agency or U.S. government-sponsored enterprise
pass-through mortgage-backed securities) and
exchange-traded equities.

If quoted market prices are not available for the
specific security, the Firm may estimate the value
of such instruments using a combination of observed
transaction prices, independent pricing services
and relevant broker quotes. Consideration is given
to the nature of the quotes (e.g., indicative or
firm) and the relationship of recently evidenced
market activity to the prices provided from
independent pricing services. The Firm may also use
pricing models or discounted cash flows. In cases
where there is limited activity or less
transparency around inputs to the valuation,
securities are classified within level 3 of the
valuation hierarchy.

For certain collateralized mortgage and debt
obligations, asset-backed securities and high-yield
debt securities the determination of fair value may
require benchmarking to similar instruments or
analyzing

default and recovery rates. For  cash 
collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ), external
price information is not available. Therefore, cash
CDOs are valued using market-standard models, such
as Intex, to model the specific collateral
composition and cash flow structure of each deal;
key inputs to the model are market spread data for
each credit rating, collateral type and other
relevant contractual features. Asset-backed
securities are valued based on external prices or
market spread data, using current market
assumptions on prepayments and defaults. For those
asset-backed securities where the external price
data is not observable or the limited available
data is opaque, the collateral performance is
monitored and the value of the security is
assessed. To benchmark its valuations, the Firm
looks to transactions for similar instruments and
utilizes independent pricing provided by
third-party vendors, broker quotes and relevant
market indices such as the ABX index, as
applicable. While none of those sources are solely
indicative of fair value, they serve as directional
indicators for the appropriateness of the Firm s
estimates. The majority of collateralized mortgage
and debt obligations, high-yield debt securities
and asset-backed securities are currently
classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.
For further discussion of the valuation of mortgage
securities carried at fair value see the  Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair value  section of
this Note on pages 139 141.

Commodities  
Commodities inventory is carried at the lower of
cost or fair value. The fair value for commodities
inventory is determined primarily using pricing and
data derived from the markets on which the
underlying commodities are traded. Market prices
may be adjusted for liquidity. The Firm also has
positions in commodity-based derivatives that can be traded on an exchange or
over-the-counter. The pricing inputs to these
derivatives include forward curves of underlying
commodities, basis curves, volatilities,
correlations, and occasionally other model
parameters. The valuation of these derivatives is
based upon calibrating to market transactions, as
well as to independent pricing information from
sources such as brokers and dealer consensus
pricing services. Where inputs are unobservable,
they are benchmarked to observable market data
based upon historic and implied correlations, then
adjusted for uncertainty where appropriate. The
majority of commodities inventory and
commodities-based derivatives are classified within
level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.

Derivatives  
Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted
prices are classified within level 1 of the
valuation hierarchy. However, few classes of
derivative contracts are listed on an exchange;
thus, the majority of the Firm s derivative
positions are valued using internally developed
models that use as their basis readily observable
market parameters   that is, parameters that are
actively quoted and can be validated to external
sources, including industry pricing services.
Depending on the types and contractual terms of
derivatives, fair value can be modeled using a
series of techniques, such as the Black-Scholes
option pricing model, simulation models or a
combination of various models, which are
consistently applied. Where derivative products
have been established for some time, the Firm uses
models that are widely accepted in the financial
services industry. These models reflect the

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

contractual terms of the derivatives, including
the period to maturity, and market-based parameters
such as interest rates, volatility, and the credit
quality of the counterparty. Further, many of these
models do not contain a high level of subjectivity,
as the methodologies used in the models do not
require significant judgment, and inputs to the
model are readily observable from actively quoted
markets, as is the case for  plain vanilla 
interest rate swaps and option contracts and credit
default swaps ( CDS ). Such instruments are
generally classified within level 2 of the
valuation hierarchy.

Derivatives that are valued based upon models with
significant unobservable market parameters and that
are normally traded less actively, have trade
activity that is one way, and/or are traded in
less-developed markets are classified within level
3 of the valuation hierarchy. Level 3 derivatives,
for example, include credit default swaps
referenced to mortgage-backed securities, certain
types of CDO transactions, options on baskets of
single-name stocks, and callable exotic interest
rate options. Such derivatives are primarily used for risk management purposes.

For certain derivative products, such as credit
default swaps referenced to mortgage-backed
securities, the value is based on the underlying
mortgage risk. As these instruments are not actively quoted, the estimate
of fair value considers the valuation of the
underlying collateral (mortgage loans). Inputs to
the valuation will include available information on
similar underlying loans or securities in the cash
market. The prepayments and loss assumptions on the
underlying loans or securities are estimated using a
combination of historical data, prices on market
transactions, and other prepayment and default
scenarios and analysis. Relevant observable market
indices such as the ABX or CMBX, are considered,
as well as any relevant transaction activity.

Other complex products, such as those sensitive to
correlation between two or more underlyings, also
fall within level 3 of the hierarchy. Such
instruments include complex credit derivative
products which are illiquid and non-standard in
nature, including CDOs and CDO-squared. A CDO is a
debt security collateralized by a variety of debt
obligations, including bonds and loans of different
maturities and credit qualities. The repackaging of
such securities and loans within a CDO results in the creation of
tranches, which are instruments with differing risk profiles. In a
CDO-squared, the instrument is a CDO where the
underlying debt instruments are also CDOs. For
CDO-squared transactions, while inputs such as CDS
spreads and recovery rates may be observable, the
correlation between the underlying debt instruments
is unobservable. The correlation levels are not
only modeled on a portfolio basis but are also
calibrated at a transaction level to liquid
benchmark tranches. For all complex credit
derivative products, actual transactions, where
available, are used to regularly recalibrate all
unobservable parameters.

Correlation sensitivity is also material to the
overall valuation of options on baskets of
single-name stocks; the valuation of these baskets
is typically not observable due to their
non-standardized structuring. Correlation for
products such as these are typically estimated
based on an observable basket of stocks and then
adjusted to reflect the differences between the
underlying equities.

For callable exotic interest rate options, while
most of the assumptions in the valuation can be
observed in active markets (e.g. interest rates and
volatility), the callable option transaction flow
is essentially one-way, and as such, price
observability is limited. As pricing information is
limited, assumptions are based upon the dynamics of
the underlying markets (e.g. the interest rate
markets) including the range and possible outcomes
of the applicable inputs. In addition, the models
used are calibrated, as relevant, to liquid
benchmarks and valuation is tested against monthly
independent pricing services and actual
transactions.

Mortgage servicing rights and certain retained
interests in securitizations  
Mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) and certain
retained interests from securitization activities
do not trade in an active, open market with readily
observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur,
the precise terms and conditions typically are not
readily available. Accordingly, the Firm estimates the fair value of
MSRs and certain other retained interests in
securitizations using discounted cash flow ( DCF )
models.

For MSRs, the Firm uses an option-adjusted spread ( OAS ) valuation model in
conjunction with the Firm s proprietary prepayment model to project MSR cash flows over
multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates to
estimate an expected fair value of the MSRs. The OAS model considers portfolio
characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions,
delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other
economic factors. The Firm reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and
assumptions used in the OAS model to reflect market conditions and assumptions that a
market participant would consider in valuing the MSR asset. Due to the nature of the
valuation inputs, MSRs are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 

For certain retained interests in securitizations (such as interest-only strips), a
single interest rate path discounted cash flow model is used and generally includes
assumptions based upon projected finance charges related to the securitized assets,
estimated net credit losses, prepayment assumptions and contractual interest paid to
third-party investors. Changes in the assumptions used may have a significant impact on
the Firm s valuation of retained interests, and such interests are therefore typically
classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 

For both MSRs and certain other retained interests
in securitizations, the Firm compares its fair
value estimates and assumptions to observable
market data where available and to recent market
activity and actual portfolio experience. For
further discussion of the most significant
assumptions used to value retained interests
in securitizations and MSRs, as well as the
applicable stress tests for those assumptions, see
Note 16 and Note 18 on pages 168 176 and 186 189,
respectively, of this Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

Private equity investments  
The valuation of nonpublic private equity
investments, held primarily by the Private Equity
business within Corporate, requires significant
management judgment due to the absence of quoted
market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity and
the long-term nature of such assets. As such,
private equity investments are valued initially
based upon cost. Each quarter, valuations are
reviewed utilizing available and relevant market
data to determine if the carrying value of these
investments should be adjusted. Such market data
primarily includes observations of the trading
multiples of public companies considered comparable
to the private companies being valued and the
operating performance of the underlying portfolio
company, including its historical and projected net
income and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ).
Valuations are adjusted to account for
company-specific issues, the lack of liquidity
inherent in a nonpublic investment and the fact
that comparable public companies are not identical
to the companies being valued. In addition, a variety
of additional factors are reviewed by management,
including, but not limited to, financing and sales transactions with third parties, future
expectations of the particular investment, changes
in market outlook and the third-party financing
environment. The Firm applies its valuation
methodology consistently from period to period and
believes that the methodology and associated
valuation adjustments are appropriate. Nonpublic
private equity investments are included in level 3
of the valuation hierarchy.

Private equity investments also include publicly
held equity investments, generally obtained through
the initial public offering of privately held
equity investments. Publicly held investments in
liquid markets are marked to market at the quoted
public value less adjustments for regulatory or
contractual sales restrictions. Discounts for
restrictions are quantified by analyzing the length
of the restriction period and the volatility of the
equity security. Publicly held investments are
largely classified in level 2 of the valuation
hierarchy.

Other assets  
The fair value of asset-backed commercial paper
( ABCP ) investments purchased under the Federal
Reserve s Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money
Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility ( AML
Facility ) for U.S. money market mutual funds is
determined based on observable market information and is classified in level 2 of the
valuation hierarchy.

Liabilities 

Securities sold under repurchase agreements
( repurchase agreements )  
To estimate the fair value of repurchase
agreements, cash flows are evaluated taking into
consideration any derivative features and are then
discounted using the appropriate market rates for
the applicable maturity. Generally, for these types of agreements,
there is a requirement that collateral be maintained with a market
value equal to, or in excess of, the principal amount loaned; as a
result, there would be no adjustment, or an immaterial adjustment,
to reflect the credit quality of the Firm (i.e., DVA) related to these agreements. As the inputs into the
valuation are primarily based upon observable
pricing information, repurchase agreements are
classified within level 2 of the valuation
hierarchy.

Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs  
The fair value of beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEs ( beneficial interests ) is
estimated based upon the fair value of the
underlying assets held by the VIEs. The valuation
of beneficial interests does not include an
adjustment to reflect the credit quality of the
Firm, as the holders of these beneficial interests
do not have recourse to the general credit of
JPMorgan Chase. As the inputs into the valuation
are generally based upon readily observable market
pricing information, the majority of beneficial
interests issued by consolidated VIEs are
classified within level 2 of the valuation
hierarchy.

Deposits, other borrowed funds and long-term debt  
Included within deposits, other borrowed funds and
long-term debt are structured notes issued by the
Firm that are financial instruments containing
embedded derivatives. To estimate the fair value of
structured notes, cash flows are evaluated taking
into consideration any derivative features and are
then discounted using the appropriate market rates
for the applicable maturities. In addition, the
valuation of structured notes includes an adjustment to reflect the credit
quality of the Firm (i.e., the DVA). Where the
inputs into the valuation are primarily based upon
readily observable market pricing information, the
structured notes are classified within level 2 of
the valuation hierarchy. Where significant inputs
are unobservable, structured notes are classified
within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

The following table presents the financial instruments carried at fair value as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, by caption on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and by SFAS 157 valuation hierarchy
(as described above).

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis 

Table of Contents   

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis 

(a) 
       
     Physical commodities inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair
value. 

(b) 
       
     Includes assets for which the Firm serves as an intermediary between two parties
and does not bear market risk. The assets are predominantly reflected within derivative
receivables. 

(c) 
       
     Includes the fair value adjustment for unfunded lending-related commitments
accounted for at fair value. 

(d) 
       
     As permitted under FIN 39, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and
derivative payables and the related cash collateral received and paid when a legally
enforceable master netting agreement exists. The increase in FIN 39 netting from December
31, 2007, primarily relates to the decline in interest rates, widening credit spreads and
volatile foreign exchange rates reflected in interest rate, credit and foreign exchange
derivatives, respectively. 

Balances for which the Firm did not bear economic exposure at December 31, 2007, were not
significant.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements 

The tables below include a rollforward of the
balance sheet amounts for the years ended December
31, 2008 and 2007 (including the change in fair
value), for financial instruments classified by the
Firm within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.
When a determination is made to classify a
financial instrument within level 3, the
determination is based upon the significance of the
unobservable parameters to the overall fair value
measurement. However, level 3 financial instruments
typically include, in addition to the unobservable
or level 3 components, observable components (that
is, components that are

actively quoted and can be validated to external
sources); accordingly, the gains and losses in the
table below include changes in fair value due in
part to observable factors that are part of the
valuation methodology. Also, the Firm risk manages
the observable components of level 3 financial
instruments using securities and derivative
positions that are classified within level 1 or 2
of the valuation hierarchy; as these level 1 and
level 2 risk management instruments are not
included below, the gains or losses in the tables
do not reflect the effect of the Firm s risk
management activities related to such level 3
instruments.

Table of Contents   

(a) 
       
     Private equity instruments represent investments within the Corporate/Private
Equity line of business. 

(b) 
       
     Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of total Firm liabilities accounted for at
fair value (including liabilities carried at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 25%
and 17% at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Firm does not allocate the FIN 39
netting adjustment across the levels of the fair value hierarchy. As such, the level 3
derivative payables balance included in the level 3 total balance is
gross of any netting adjustments. 

(c) 
       
     Beginning January 1, 2008, all transfers in and out of level 3 are assumed to
occur at the beginning of the reporting period. 

(d) 
       
     Reported in principal transactions revenue. 

(e) 
       
     Changes in fair value for Retail Financial Services mortgage loans originated with
the intent to sell and MSRs are measured at fair value and reported in mortgage fees and
related income. 

(f) 
       
     Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses). Unrealized
gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 

(g) 
       
     Reported in other income. 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Assets and liabilities measured at
fair value on a nonrecurring basis  
Certain assets, liabilities and unfunded
lending-related commitments are measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the
instruments are not measured at fair value on an
ongoing basis but are subject to fair value
adjustments only in certain circumstances

(for example, when there is evidence of
impairment). The following tables present the
financial instruments carried on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets by caption and level within the SFAS
157 valuation hierarchy (as described above) as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, for which a
nonrecurring change in fair value has been recorded
during the reporting period.

(a) 
       
     Includes leveraged lending and other loan warehouses held-for-sale. 

(b) 
       
     Represents the fair value adjustment associated with $1.5 billion and $3.2 billion
of unfunded held-for-sale lending-related commitments within the leveraged lending
portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(c) 
       
     Includes $4.5 billion of level 3 held-for-sale loans reclassified to
held-for-investment during 2007. 

Nonrecurring fair value changes  
The following table presents the total change in
value of financial instruments for which a fair
value adjustment has been included in the
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, related to
financial instruments held at December 31, 2008 and 2007.

In the above table, loans predominantly include
the change in fair value for IB leveraged lending
and warehouse loans carried on the balance sheet at
the lower of cost or fair value; and accounts
payable and other liabilities predominantly include
the change in fair value for unfunded
lending-related commitments within the leveraged
lending portfolio.

Level 3 analysis  
Level 3 assets (including assets measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis) were 6% of total
Firm assets at December 31, 2008. The following
describes significant changes to level 3 assets
during the year.

Level 3 assets increased $46.9 billion in 2008,
largely due to the following:

Acquisition of $41.5 billion of level 3 assets as a result of the merger with Bear
Stearns. 

Acquisition of $5.9 billion of MSRs related to the Washington Mutual transaction. 

Purchase of approximately $4.4 billion of reverse mortgages in the first quarter of
2008, for which there is limited pricing information and a lack of market liquidity. 

Transfers of $14.0 billion of AAA-rated CLOs backed by corporate loans, based upon a
significant reduction in new deal issuance and price transparency; $10.5 billion of mortgage-related assets, including commercial mortgage-backed
securities with a rating below  AAA , other noninvestment grade mortgage securities and
certain prime mortgages; and $2.8 billion of auction-rate
securities, in each case due to a
significant reduction in market liquidity. 

The increases in level 3 assets described above were partially offset by:

Approximately $20.0 billion of sales and markdowns of residential mortgage-backed
securities, prime residential mortgage loans and Alt-A residential mortgage loans. 

$11.5 billion of sales and markdowns of leveraged loans, as well as transfers of
similar loans to level 2 due to the increased price transparency for such assets. 

Table of Contents   

$3.5 billion of transfers of bridge loans to level 2 due to increased price
transparency for such assets. 

Gains and Losses  
Gains and losses in the tables above for 2008 include:

Losses on trading debt and equity instruments of approximately $12.8 billion,
principally from mortgage-related transactions and auction-rate securities. 

A $6.9 billion decline in the fair value of the MSR asset. 

Losses of approximately $3.9 billion on leveraged loans.
Leveraged loans are typically classified as held-for-sale and measured at the lower of cost
or fair value and therefore included in the nonrecurring fair value assets. 

Gains of $4.5 billion related to structured notes, principally due to significant
volatility in the equity markets. 

Net gains of $4.6 billion related to derivatives, principally due to changes in
credit spreads and rate curves. 

The Firm risk manages level 3 financial instruments
using securities and derivative positions
classified within level 1 or 2 of the valuation
hierarchy; the effect of these risk management
activities is not reflected in the level 3 gains
and losses included in the tables above.

For further information on changes in the fair
value of the MSRs, see Note 18 on pages 187 188 of
this Annual Report.

Credit adjustments  
When determining the fair value of an instrument,
it may be necessary to record a valuation
adjustment to arrive at an exit price in
accordance with SFAS 157. Valuation adjustments
include, but are not limited to, amounts to
reflect counterparty credit quality and the Firm s
own creditworthiness. For a detailed discussion of
the valuation adjustments the Firm considers, see
the valuation discussion at the beginning of this
Note.

The
following table provides the credit adjustments, gross of hedges
where risk is actively managed, as reflected
within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of the Firm
as of the dates indicated.

(a) 
       
     Derivative CVA, gross of hedges, includes results managed by Credit Portfolio and
other lines of business within IB. 

(b) 
       
     Structured notes are carried at fair value based upon the Firm s election under
SFAS 159. For further information on these elections, see Note 5 on page 144 of this
Annual Report. 

The following table provides the impact of
credit adjustments, gross of hedges where risk is actively managed, on earnings in the respective periods.

(a) 
       
     Derivative CVA, gross of hedges, includes results managed by Credit Portfolio and
other lines of business within IB. 

(b) 
       
     Structured notes are carried at fair value based upon the Firm s election under
SFAS 159. For further information on these elections, see Note 5 on page 144 of this
Annual Report. 

The market s view of the Firm s credit quality
is reflected in credit spreads observed in the
credit default swap market. These credit spreads
are affected by a number of factors, such as the
performance of the assets the Firm holds.
Consequently, significant deterioration in the
value of sizable exposures held by the Firm are
likely to result in wider credit default swap
spreads. This will lead to an increase in the
Firm s credit adjustment (i.e., DVA) for
liabilities carried at fair value.

Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair value  
As noted above, certain of the Firm s wholesale and consumer
loans are carried at fair value including mortgage related loans. Since the second half of 2007,
liquidity in certain sectors of the mortgage
markets has decreased, thereby limiting the price
transparency of certain mortgage-related
instruments. The table below summarizes the Firm s
mortgage-related exposures that are carried at fair
value through earnings or at the lower of cost or
fair value; the table excludes securities held in
the available-for-sale portfolio.

(a) 
       
     Included exposures in IB and Retail Financial Services segments. 

(b) 
       
     Excluded from the table above are certain mortgage-related assets that are carried
at fair value and recorded in trading assets, such as: (i) U.S. government agency and U.S.
government-sponsored enterprise securities that are liquid and of high credit quality of
$58.9 billion at December 31, 2008; and (ii) reverse mortgages of $4.3 billion at December 31,
2008, for which the principal risk is mortality risk. Also excluded
are mortgage servicing rights,
which are reported in Note 18 on pages 187 188 of this Annual Report. 

(c) 
       
     Also excluded from the table above are certain mortgage-related financing
transactions, which are collateralized by mortgage-related assets, of $5.7 billion at
December 31, 2008. These financing transactions are excluded from the table as they are
accounted for on an accrual basis of accounting. For financings deemed to be impaired,
impairment is measured and recognized based upon the fair value of the collateral. Of
these financing transactions, $1.2 billion at December 31, 2008, was considered impaired. 

(d) 
       
     The amounts presented reflect the effects of derivatives utilized to risk manage
the gross exposures arising from cash-based instruments and are presented on a bond or
loan equivalent (notional) basis. Derivatives are excluded from
the gross exposure as they are principally used for risk management
purposes. 

(e) 
       
     Net gains and losses include all revenue related to the positions (i.e., interest income, changes in fair value of the assets, changes in fair value of the related
risk management positions, and interest expense related to the liabilities funding
the positions). 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Residential
mortgages  

Prime
Mortgage    The Firm had exposure of $11.2
billion to prime mortgages carried at fair value
through earnings or at the lower of cost or fair
value at December 31, 2008, which consisted of $2.9
billion of securities (including $1.2 billion of
forward purchase commitments), largely rated  AAA ,
and $8.3 billion of first-lien mortgages.

Alt-A
mortgage    The Firm had exposure of $3.9 billion to Alt-A mortgages carried at fair value
through earnings or at the lower of cost or fair
value at December 31, 2008, which consisted of
$787 million of securities and $3.1 billion of
first-lien mortgages.

Subprime
mortgage    The Firm had exposure of $941 million to sub-prime mortgages carried at fair
value through earnings or at the lower of cost or
fair value at December 31, 2008, which included
$680 million of securities and $261 million of
first-lien mortgages.

Classification and Valuation   
Residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed
securities are classified within level 2 or level 3
of the valuation hierarchy depending on the level
of liquidity and activity in the markets for a
particular product. Level 3 assets include
residential whole loans, prime and Alt-A
residential mortgage-backed securities rated below
 AAA , subprime residential mortgage-backed
securities and single-name CDS on ABS. Products
that continue to have reliable price transparency
as evidenced by consistent market transactions,
such as AAA-rated prime and Alt-A securities, as
well as agency securities, continue to be
classified in level 2.

For those products classified within level 2 of
the valuation hierarchy, the Firm estimates the
value of such instruments using a combination of
observed transaction prices, independent pricing
services and relevant broker quotes. Consideration
is given to the nature of the quotes
(e.g., indicative or firm) and the relationship of
recently evidenced market activity to the prices
provided from independent pricing services.

When relevant market activity is not occurring or
is limited, the fair value is estimated as
follows:

Residential
mortgage loan s   Fair value of
residential mortgage loans is estimated by
projecting the expected cash flows and discounting
those cash flows at a rate reflective of current
market liquidity. To estimate the projected cash
flows (inclusive of assumptions of prepayment,
default rates and loss severity), specific
consideration is given to both borrower-specific
and other market factors including, but not limited
to: the borrower s FICO score; the type of
collateral supporting the loan; an estimate of the
current value of the collateral supporting the
loan; the level of documentation for the
loan; and market-derived expectations for home
price appreciation or depreciation in the
respective geography of the borrower.

Residential
mortgage-backed securities    Fair
value of residential mortgage-backed securities is
estimated considering the value of the collateral
and the specific attributes of the securities held
by the Firm. The value of the collateral pool
supporting the securities is

analyzed using the
same techniques and factors described above for
residential mortgage loans, albeit in a more
aggregated manner across the pool. For example,
average FICO scores, average delinquency rates,
average loss severities and prepayment rates, among
other metrics, may be evaluated. In addition, as
each securitization vehicle distributes cash in a
manner or order that is predetermined at the
inception of the vehicle, the priority in which
each particular mortgage-backed security is
allocated cash flows, and the level of credit
enhancement that is in place to support those cash
flows, are key considerations in deriving the value
of residential mortgage-backed securities. Finally,
the risk premium that investors demand for
securitized products in today s market is factored
into the valuation. To benchmark its valuations,
the Firm looks to transactions for similar
instruments and utilizes independent pricing
provided by third-party vendors, broker quotes and
relevant market indices such as the ABX index, as
applicable. While none of those sources are solely
indicative of fair value, they serve as directional
indicators for the appropriateness of the Firm s
estimates.

Commercial mortgages  

Commercial mortgages are loans to companies backed
by commercial real estate. Commercial
mortgage-backed securities are securities
collateralized by a pool of commercial mortgages.
Typically, commercial mortgages have lock-out
periods, where the borrower is restricted from
prepaying the loan for a specified timeframe, or
periods where there are disincentives for the
borrower to prepay the loan due to prepayment
penalties. These features reduce prepayment risk
for commercial mortgages relative to that of
residential mortgages.

The Firm had exposure to $7.2 billion of
commercial mortgage-backed assets carried at fair
value through earnings or at the lower of cost or
fair value at December 31, 2008, which consisted
of $2.8 billion of securities, largely rated
 AAA , and $4.4 billion of first-lien mortgages,
largely in the U.S.

Classification and Valuation   
While commercial mortgages and commercial
mortgage-backed securities are classified within
level 2 or level 3 of the valuation hierarchy,
depending on the level of liquidity and activity in
the markets, the majority of these mortgages,
including both loans and lower-rated securities,
are currently classified in level 3. Level 2 assets
include AAA-rated fixed-rate commercial
mortgage-backed securities.

Commercial
mortgage loans    Fair value of
commercial mortgage loans is estimated by
projecting the expected
cash flows and discounting those cash flows at a
rate reflective of current market liquidity. To
estimate the projected cash flows, consideration is
given to both borrower-specific and other market
factors including, but not limited to: the
borrower s debt-to-service coverage ratio; the type
of commercial property (e.g., retail, office,
lodging, multi-family, etc.); an estimate of the
current loan-to-value ratio; and market-derived
expectations for property price appreciation or
depreciation in the respective geographic location.

Table of Contents   

Commercial
mortgage-backed securities    When
relevant market activity is not present or is
limited, the value of commercial mortgage-backed
securities is estimated considering the value of
the collateral and the specific attributes of the
securities held by the Firm. The value of the
collateral pool supporting the securities is
analyzed using the same techniques and factors
described above for the valuation of commercial
mortgage loans, albeit in a more aggregated manner
across the pool. For example, average
delinquencies, loan or geographic concentrations
and average debt-service coverage ratios, among
other metrics, may be evaluated. In addition, as
each securitization vehicle distributes cash in a
manner or order that is predetermined at the
inception of the vehicle, the priority in which
each

particular mortgage-backed security is
allocated cash flows, and the level of credit
enhancement that is in place to support those cash
flows, are key considerations in deriving the value
of commercial mortgage-backed securities. Finally,
the risk premium that investors demand for
securitized products in today s market is factored
into the valuation. To benchmark its valuations,
the Firm utilizes independent pricing provided by
third-party vendors, and broker quotes, as
applicable. While none of those sources are solely
indicative of fair value, they serve as directional
indicators for the appropriateness of the Firm s
estimates.

The following table presents mortgage-related activities within the available-for-sale securities
portfolio.

(a) 
       
     Excludes related net interest income. 

Exposures in the table above include $140.1
billion of mortgage-backed securities classified as
available-for-sale in the Firm s Consolidated
Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008. These
investments are primarily used as part of the Firm s
centralized risk management of structural interest
rate risk (the sensitivity of the Firm s aggregate
balance sheet to changes in interest rates).
Changes in the Firm s structural interest rate
position, as well as changes in the overall
interest rate environment, are continually
monitored, resulting in periodic repositioning of
mortgage-backed securities classified as
available-for-sale. Given that this portfolio is
primarily used to manage interest rate risk,
predominantly all of these securities are backed by
either U.S. government agencies, government
sponsored entities, or they are rated  AAA .

Investment securities in the available-for-sale portfolio include:

$6.9 billion of prime and Alt-A securities, principally rated  AAA . The fair value
of these securities is determined based upon independent pricing services supported by
relevant and observable market data for similar securities. The Firm classifies these
securities in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 

$3.9 billion of commercial mortgage-backed securities, principally rated  AAA . The
fair value of these securities is determined using a third party pricing service that
uses relevant and observable market data. The Firm classifies these securities in level 2
of the valuation hierarchy. 

$127.0 billion of U.S. government agencies or U.S. government-sponsored enterprise
mortgage-backed securities. Where these securities trade in active markets and there is
market-observable pricing, they are classified in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.
Where the determination of fair value is based on broker quotes and independent pricing
services, supported by relevant and observable
market data, the Firm classifies such securities in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

SFAS 157 Transition  
In connection with the initial adoption of
SFAS 157, the Firm recorded the following on
January 1, 2007:

a cumulative effect increase to retained earnings of $287 million, primarily
related to the release of profit previously deferred in accordance with EITF 02-3; 

an increase to pretax income of $166 million ($103 million after-tax) related to the
incorporation of the Firm s creditworthiness in the valuation of liabilities recorded at
fair value; and 

an increase to pretax income of $464 million ($288 million after-tax) related to
valuations of nonpublic private equity investments. 

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 157, the Firm applied
the provisions of EITF 02-3 to its derivative
portfolio. EITF 02-3 precluded the recognition of
initial trading profit in the absence of: (a)
quoted market prices, (b) observable prices of
other current market transactions or (c) other
observable data supporting a valuation technique.
In accordance with EITF 02-3, the Firm recognized
the deferred profit in principal transactions
revenue on a systematic basis (typically
straight-line amortization over the life of the
instruments) and when observable market data became
available.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 157 the Firm did not
incorporate an adjustment into the valuation of
liabilities carried at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Commencing January 1,
2007, in accordance with the requirements of SFAS
157, an adjustment was made to the valuation of
liabilities measured at fair value to reflect the
credit quality of the Firm.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 157, privately held
investments were initially valued based upon cost.
The carrying values of privately held investments
were adjusted from cost to reflect both positive
and negative changes evidenced by financing events
with third-party capital providers. The investments
were also subject to ongoing impairment reviews by
private equity senior investment professionals. The
increase in pretax income related to nonpublic
private equity investments in connection with the
adoption of SFAS 157 was due to there being
sufficient market evidence to support an

increase in fair values using the SFAS 157
methodology, although there had not been an actual
third-party market transaction related to such
investments.

Financial disclosures required by SFAS 107  
Many but not all of the financial instruments held
by the Firm are recorded at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. SFAS 107 requires
disclosure of the estimated fair value of certain
financial instruments and the methods and
significant assumptions used to estimate their fair
value. Financial instruments within the scope of
SFAS 107 are included in the table below.
Additionally, certain financial instruments and all
nonfinancial instruments are excluded from the
scope of SFAS 107. Accordingly, the fair value
disclosures required by SFAS 107 provide only a
partial estimate of the fair value of JPMorgan
Chase. For example, the Firm has developed
long-term relationships with its customers through
its deposit base and credit card accounts, commonly
referred to as core deposit intangibles and credit
card relationships. In the opinion of management,
these items, in the aggregate, add significant
value to JPMorgan Chase, but their fair value is
not disclosed in this Note.

Financial instruments for which fair value
approximates carrying value  
Certain financial instruments that are not carried
at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
are carried at amounts that approximate fair value
due to their short-term nature and generally
negligible credit risk. These instruments include
cash and due from banks, deposits with banks,
federal funds sold and securities purchased under
resale agreements and securities borrowed with short-dated maturities,
short-term receivables and
accrued interest receivable, commercial paper,
federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements with short-dated maturities,
other borrowed funds (excluding advances from Federal Home Loan Banks), accounts payable and accrued
liabilities. In addition, SFAS 107 requires that
the fair value for deposit liabilities with no
stated maturity (i.e., demand, savings and certain
money market deposits) be equal to their carrying
value. SFAS 107 does not allow for the recognition
of the inherent funding value of these instruments.

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of financial assets
and liabilities as required by SFAS 107 (a discussion of the valuation of the individual
instruments can be found at the beginning of this Note or following the table below).

(a) 
       
     The fair value of interest-bearing deposits are estimated by discounting cash
flows using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity. 

(b) 
       
     Fair value for long-term debt, including junior subordinated deferrable interest
debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities, is based upon
current market rates and adjusted for JPMorgan Chase s credit quality. 

The majority of the Firm s unfunded
lending-related commitments are not carried at fair
value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets nor are they actively traded.
Although there is no liquid secondary market for
wholesale commitments, the Firm estimates the fair
value of its wholesale lending-related commitments
primarily using the cost of credit derivatives
(which is adjusted to account for the difference in
recovery rates between bonds, upon which the cost
of credit derivatives is based, and loans) and loan
equivalents (which represent the portion of an
unused commitment expected, based

upon the Firm s average portfolio historical
experience, to become outstanding in the event an
obligor defaults). On this basis, the estimated
fair value of the Firm s lending-related
commitments at December 31, 2008 and 2007, was a
liability of $7.5 billion and
$1.9 billion, respectively. The Firm does not
estimate the fair value of consumer lending-related
commitments. In many cases, the Firm can reduce or
cancel these commitments by providing the borrower
prior notice, or, in some cases, without notice as
permitted by law.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Note 5   Fair value option 

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 159,
which was effective for fiscal years beginning
after November 15, 2007, with early adoption
permitted. The Firm chose early adoption for SFAS
159 effective January 1, 2007. SFAS 159 provides an
option to elect fair value as an alternative
measurement for selected financial assets,
financial liabilities, unrecognized firm
commitments, and written loan commitments not
previously carried at fair value.

Elections  
The following is a discussion of the primary
financial instruments for which fair value
elections were made and the basis for those
elections:

Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments  
On January 1, 2007, the Firm elected to record, at
fair value, the following:

Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments that are extended as part of IB s
principal investing activities. The transition amount related to these loans included a
reversal of the allowance for loan losses of $56 million. 

Certain loans held-for-sale. These loans were reclassified to trading assets   debt
and equity instruments. This election enabled the Firm to record loans purchased as part
of the Investment Bank s commercial mortgage securitization activity and proprietary
activities at fair value and discontinue SFAS 133 fair value hedge relationships for
certain originated loans. 

Beginning on January 1, 2007, the Firm chose to
elect fair value as the measurement attribute for
the following loans originated or purchased after
that date:

Loans purchased or originated as part of IB s securitization warehousing
activities. 

Prime mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell within Retail Financial
Services ( RFS ). 

The election to fair value the above loans did
not include loans within these portfolios that
existed on January 1, 2007, based upon the short
holding period of the loans and/or the negligible
impact of the elections.

Warehouse loans elected to be reported at fair
value are classified as trading assets   debt and
equity instruments. For additional information
regarding warehouse loans, see Note 16 on pages
168 176 of this Annual Report.

Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, the Firm
elected the fair value option for newly originated
bridge financing activity in IB. These elections
were made to align further the accounting basis of
the bridge financing activities with their related
risk management practices. For these activities,
the loans continue to be classified within loans on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets; the fair value of
the unfunded commitments is recorded within
accounts payable and other liabilities.

Securities Financing Arrangements  
On January 1, 2007, the Firm elected to record at
fair value resale and repurchase agreements with
an embedded derivative or a maturity of greater
than one year. The intent of this election was to
mitigate volatility due to the differences in the
measurement basis for the agreements (which were
previously accounted for on an accrual basis) and
the associated risk management arrangements (which
are accounted for on a fair value basis). An
election was not made for short-term agreements,
as the carrying value for such agreements
generally approximates fair value. For additional
information regarding these agreements, see Note
13 on pages 162 163 of this Annual Report.

In the second quarter of 2008, the Firm began
electing the fair value option for newly transacted
securities borrowed and securities lending
agreements with a maturity of greater than one
year. An election was not made for any short-term
agreements, as the carrying value for such
agreements generally approximates fair value.

Structured Notes  
IB issues structured notes as part of its
client-driven activities. Structured notes are
financial instruments that contain embedded
derivatives and are included in long-term debt. On
January 1, 2007, the Firm elected to record at fair
value all structured notes not previously elected
or eligible for election under SFAS 155. The
election was made to mitigate the volatility due to
the differences in the measurement basis for
structured notes and the associated risk management
arrangements as well as to eliminate the
operational burdens of having different accounting
models for the same type of financial instrument.

Other  
In the third quarter of 2008, the Firm elected
the fair value option for the ABCP investments
purchased under the Federal Reserve s AML
Facility for U.S. money market mutual funds, as
well as the related nonrecourse advance from the
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston ( FRBB ). At
December 31, 2008, ABCP investments of
$11.2 billion were recorded in other assets; the
corresponding non-recourse liability to the FRBB
in the same amount was recorded in other borrowed
funds. For further discussion, see Note 21 on page
190 of this Annual Report.

In 2008, the Firm elected the fair value option for
certain loans acquired as part of the Bear Stearns
merger that were included in the trading portfolio
and for prime mortgages previously designated as
held-for-sale by Washington Mutual as part of the
Washington Mutual transaction. In addition, the
Firm elected the fair value option for certain tax
credit and other equity investments acquired as
part of the Washington Mutual transaction.

Table of Contents   

Changes in fair value under the fair value option election  
The following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated Statements of
Income for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, for items for which the fair value election
was made. The
profit and loss information presented below only includes the financial instruments that were
elected to be measured at fair value; related risk management instruments, which are required to be
measured at fair value, are not included in the table.

(a) 
       
     Total changes in instrument-specific credit risk related to structured notes were
$1.2 billion and $806 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, which includes adjustments for structured notes classified within deposits
and other borrowed funds, as well as long-term debt. 

(b) 
       
     Structured notes are debt instruments with embedded derivatives that are tailored
to meet a client s need for derivative risk in funded form. The embedded derivative is the
primary driver of risk. The 2008 gain included in  Other changes in fair value  results
from a significant decline in the value of certain structured notes where the embedded
derivative is principally linked to either equity indices or commodity prices, both of
which declined sharply during the second half of 2008. Although the risk associated with
the structured notes is actively managed, the balance reported in
this table does not include
the income statement impact of such risk management instruments. 

(c) 
       
     Included in the amounts are gains and losses related to certain financial
instruments previously carried at fair value by the Firm, such as structured liabilities
elected pursuant to SFAS 155 and loans purchased as part of the Investment Bank s trading
activities. 

(d) 
       
     Reported in mortgage fees and related income. 

(e) 
       
     Reported in other income. 

Determination of instrument-specific credit
risk for items for which a fair value election
was made  
The following describes how the gains and losses
included in earnings during 2008 and 2007, which
were attributable to changes in
instrument-specific credit risk, were determined.

Loans and lending-related commitments: For floating-rate instruments, all changes in
value are
attributed to instrument-specific credit risk. For fixed-rate instruments, an allocation of
the changes in value for the period is made between those changes in value that are
interest rate-related and changes in value that are credit-related. Allocations are
generally based upon an analysis of borrower-specific credit spread and recovery
information, where available, or benchmarking to similar entities or industries. 

Long-term debt: Changes in value attributable to instrument-specific credit risk
were derived principally from observable changes in the Firm s credit spread. The gain for
2008 and 2007 was attributable to the widening of the Firm s credit spread. 

Resale and repurchase agreements, securities borrowed agreements and securities
lending agreements: Generally, for these types of agreements, there is a requirement that
collateral be maintained with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount
loaned; as a result, there would be no adjustment or an immaterial adjustment for
instrument-specific credit risk related to these agreements. 

Difference between aggregate fair value and
aggregate remaining contractual principal
balance outstanding  
The following table reflects the difference between
the aggregate fair value and the aggregate
remaining contractual principal balance outstanding
as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, for loans and
long-term debt for which the SFAS 159 fair value
option has been elected. The loans were classified
in trading assets   debt and equity instruments or
in loans.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

(a) 
       
     Remaining contractual principal is not applicable to nonprincipal protected notes.
Unlike principal protected notes for which the Firm is obligated to return a stated amount
of principal at the maturity of the note, nonprincipal protected notes do not obligate the
Firm to return a stated amount of principal at maturity but to return an amount based upon
the performance of an underlying variable or derivative feature embedded in the note. 

(b) 
       
     Where the Firm issues principal protected zero coupon or discount notes, the
balance reflected as the remaining contractual principal is the final principal payment at
maturity. 

The contractual amount of unfunded
lending-related commitments for which the fair
value option was elected was negligible at December
31, 2008. At December 31, 2007, the contractual
amount of unfunded lending-related commitments for
which the fair value option was elected was $1.0
billion with a corresponding fair value of $25
million. Such commitments are reflected as
liabilities and included in accounts payable and
other liabilities.

Note 6   Principal transactions 

Principal transactions revenue consists of
realized and unrealized gains and losses from
trading activities (including physical commodities
inventories that are accounted for at the lower of
cost or fair value), changes in fair value
associated with financial instruments held by the
Investment Bank for which the SFAS 159 fair value
option was elected, and loans held-for-sale within
the wholesale lines of business. For loans measured
at fair value under SFAS 159, origination costs are
recognized in the associated expense category as
incurred. Principal transactions revenue also
includes private equity gains and losses.

The following table presents principal transactions revenue.

(a) 
       
     Includes revenue on private equity investments held in the Private Equity business
within Corporate/Private Equity and those held in other business segments. 

Trading assets and liabilities  
Trading assets include debt and equity instruments
held for trading purposes that JPMorgan Chase owns
( long  positions), certain loans for which the
Firm manages on a fair value basis and has elected
the SFAS 159 fair value option, and physical
commodities inventories that are accounted for at
the lower of cost or fair value.
Trading liabilities include debt and equity
instruments that the Firm has sold to other parties
but does not own ( short  positions). The Firm is
obligated to purchase instruments at a future date
to cover the short positions. Included in trading
assets and trading liabilities are the reported
receivables (unrealized gains) and payables
(unrealized losses) related to derivatives. Trading
assets and liabilities are carried at fair value on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For a discussion
of the valuation of trading assets and trading
liabilities, see Note 5 on pages 144 146 of this
Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the fair value of
trading assets and trading liabilities for the
dates indicated.

(a) 
       
     Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation. 

(b) 
       
     Primarily represents securities sold, not yet purchased. 

Included in trading assets and trading
liabilities are the reported receivables
(unrealized gains) and payables (unrealized losses)
related to derivatives. As permitted under FIN 39,
the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables
and derivative payables and the related cash
collateral received and paid when a legally
enforceable master netting agreement exists. The
netted amount of cash collateral received and paid
was $103.6 billion and $72.4 billion, respectively,
at December 31, 2008, and $34.9 billion and $24.6
billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007. The
Firm received and paid excess collateral of $22.2
billion and $3.7 billion, respectively, at December
31, 2008, and $17.4 billion and $2.4 billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2007. This additional
collateral received and paid secures potential
exposure that could arise in the derivatives
portfolio should the mark-to-market of the
transactions move in the Firm s favor or the
client s favor, respectively, and is not nettable
against the derivative receivables or payables in
the table above. The above amounts also exclude
liquid securities held and posted as collateral by
the Firm to secure derivative receivables and
derivative payables. Collateral amounts held and posted in
securities form are not recorded on the Firm s
balance sheet, and are therefore not nettable
against derivative receivables. The Firm held
securities collateral of $19.8 billion and $9.8
billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, related to derivative receivables.
The Firm posted $11.8 billion and $5.9 billion of
securities collateral at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively, related to derivative
payables.

Average trading assets and liabilities were as
follows for the periods indicated.

(a) 
       
     Primarily represent securities sold, not yet purchased. 

Private equity investments  
Private equity investments are recorded in other
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The
following table presents the carrying value and
cost of the private equity investment portfolio
held by the Private Equity business within
Corporate/Private Equity for the dates indicated.

The above private equity investments include
investments in buyouts, growth equity and venture
opportunities. These investments are accounted for
under investment company guidelines. Accordingly,
these investments, irrespective of the percentage
of equity ownership interest held, are carried on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising
from changes in fair

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

value are reported in principal transactions
revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income in
the period that the gains or losses are recognized.
For a discussion of the valuation of private equity
investments, see Note 5 on pages 144 146 of this
Annual Report.

Note 7
  Other noninterest revenue 

Investment banking fees  
This revenue category includes advisory and equity
and debt underwriting fees. Advisory fees are
recognized as revenue when the related services
have been performed. Underwriting fees are
recognized as revenue when the Firm has rendered
all services to the issuer and is entitled to
collect the fee from the issuer, as long as there
are no other contingencies associated with the fee
(e.g., the fee is not contingent upon the customer
obtaining financing). Underwriting fees are net of
syndicate expense; the Firm recognizes credit
arrangement and syndication fees as revenue after
satisfying certain retention, timing and yield
criteria.

The following table presents the components of Investment banking fees.

Lending   deposit-related fees  
This revenue category includes fees from loan
commitments, standby letters of credit, financial
guarantees, deposit-related fees in lieu of
compensating balances, cash management-related
activities or transactions, deposit accounts and
other loan-servicing activities. These fees are
recognized over the period in which the related
service is provided.

Asset management, administration and commissions  
This revenue category includes fees from investment
management and related services, custody, brokerage
services, insurance premiums and commissions, and
other products. These fees are recognized over the
period in which the related service is provided.
Performance-based fees, which are earned based upon
exceeding certain benchmarks or other performance
targets, are accrued and recognized at the end of
the performance period in which the target is met.

The following table presents components of
asset management, administration and
commissions.

(a) 
       
     Includes fees for custody, securities lending, funds services and broker-dealer clearance. 

Mortgage fees and related income  
This revenue category primarily reflects Retail
Financial Services  mortgage banking revenue,
including: fees and income derived from mortgages
originated with the intent to sell; mortgage sales
and servicing; the impact of risk management
activities associated with the mortgage pipeline,
warehouse loans and MSRs; and revenue related to
any residual interests held from mortgage
securitizations. This revenue category also
includes gains and losses on sales and lower of
cost or fair value adjustments for mortgage loans
held-for-sale, as well as changes in fair value for
mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell
and measured at fair value under SFAS 159. For
loans measured at fair value under SFAS 159,
origination costs are recognized in the associated
expense category as incurred. Costs to originate
loans held-for-sale and accounted for at the lower
of cost or fair value are deferred and recognized
as a component of the gain or loss on sale. Net
interest
income from mortgage loans and securities gains and
losses on available-for-sale ( AFS ) securities
used in mortgage-related risk management activities
are recorded in interest income and securities
gains (losses), respectively. For a further
discussion of MSRs, see Note 18 on pages 187 188
of this Annual Report.

Credit card income  
This revenue category includes interchange income
from credit and debit cards and servicing fees
earned in connection with securitization
activities. Volume-related payments to partners and
expense for rewards programs are netted against
interchange income; expense related to rewards
programs are recorded when the rewards are earned
by the customer, as more fully described below.
Other fee revenue is recognized as earned, except
for annual fees, which are deferred and recognized
on a straight-line basis over the 12-month period
to which they pertain. Direct loan origination
costs are also deferred and recognized over a
12-month period. In addition, due to the
consolidation of Chase Paymentech Solutions in the
fourth quarter of 2008, this category now includes
net fees earned for processing card transactions
for merchants.

Table of Contents   

Credit card revenue sharing agreements  
The Firm has contractual agreements with numerous
affinity organizations and co-brand partners, which
grant the Firm exclusive rights to market to the
members or customers of such organizations and
partners. These organizations and partners endorse
the credit card programs and provide their mailing
lists to the Firm, and they may also conduct
marketing activities and provide awards under the
various credit card programs. The terms of these
agreements generally range from three to ten years.
The economic incentives the Firm pays to the
endorsing organizations and partners typically
include payments based upon new account
originations, charge volumes, and the cost of the
endorsing organizations  or partners  marketing
activities and awards.

The Firm recognizes the payments made to the
affinity organizations and co-brand partners based
upon new account originations as direct loan
origination costs. Payments based upon charge
volumes are considered by the Firm as revenue
sharing with the affinity organizations and
co-brand partners, which are deducted from
interchange income as the related revenue is
earned. Payments based upon marketing efforts
undertaken by the endorsing organization or partner
are expensed by the Firm as incurred. These costs
are recorded within noninterest expense.

Note 8   Interest income and Interest expense 

Details of interest income and interest expense were as follows.

(a) 
       
     Interest income and interest expense include the current period interest accruals
for financial instruments measured at fair value except for financial instruments
containing embedded derivatives that would be separately accounted for in accordance with
SFAS
133 absent the SFAS 159 fair value election; for those instruments, all changes in fair
value, including any interest elements, are reported in principal transactions revenue. 

(b) 
       
     As a result of restructuring certain multi-seller conduits the Firm administers,
JPMorgan Chase deconsolidated $29 billion of interests in purchased receivables, $3
billion of loans and $1 billion of securities and recorded $33 billion of lending-related
commitments during 2006. 

(c) 
       
     Predominantly margin loans. 

(d) 
       
     Includes brokerage customer payables. 

(e) 
       
     Includes accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the
acquisition of Washington Mutual s banking operations. 

Note 9   Pension and other postretirement
employee benefit plans 

The Firm s defined benefit pension plans are
accounted for in accordance with SFAS 87 and SFAS
88, and its other postretirement employee benefit
( OPEB ) plans are accounted for in accordance
with SFAS 106. In September 2006, the FASB issued
SFAS 158, which requires companies to recognize on
their Consolidated Balance Sheets the overfunded
or underfunded status of their defined benefit
postretirement plans, measured as the difference
between the fair value of plan assets and the
benefit obligation. SFAS 158 requires unrecognized
amounts (e.g., net loss and prior service costs)
to be recognized in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) ( AOCI ) and that
these amounts be adjusted as they are subsequently
recognized as components of net periodic benefit
cost based upon the current amortization and
recognition
requirements of SFAS 87 and SFAS 106. The Firm
prospectively adopted SFAS 158 on December 31,
2006, and recorded an after-tax charge to AOCI of
$1.1 billion at that date.

SFAS 158 also eliminates the provisions of SFAS 87
and SFAS 106 that allow plan assets and
obligations to be measured as of a date not more
than three months prior to the reporting entity s
balance sheet date. The Firm uses a measurement
date of December 31 for its defined benefit
pension and OPEB plans; therefore, this provision
of SFAS 158 had no effect on the Firm s financial
statements.

For the Firm s defined benefit pension plans, fair
value is used to determine the expected return on
plan assets. For the Firm s OPEB plans, a
calculated value that recognizes changes in fair
value over a five-year period is used to determine
the expected return on plan assets. Amortization of
net gains and losses is included in annual net
periodic benefit cost if, as of the beginning of
the year, the net gain or loss exceeds 10 percent
of the greater of the projected benefit obligation
or the fair value of the plan assets. Any excess,
as well as prior service costs, are amortized over
the average future service period of defined
benefit pension plan participants, which for the
U.S. defined benefit pension plan is currently nine
years (the decrease of one year from the prior year
in the assumptions is related to pension plan
demographic assumption revisions at December 31,
2007, to reflect recent experience relating to the
form and timing of benefit distributions and rates
of turnover). For OPEB plans, any excess net gains
and losses also are amortized over the average
future service period, which is currently six
years; however, prior service costs are amortized
over the average years of service remaining to full
eligibility age, which is currently four years. The
amortization periods for net gains and losses and
prior service costs for OPEB are unchanged from the
prior year.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Defined benefit pension plans  
The Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S.
defined benefit pension plan that provides benefits
to substantially all U.S. employees. The U.S. plan
employs a cash balance formula in the form of pay
and interest credits to determine the benefits to
be provided at retirement, based upon eligible
compensation and years of service. Employees begin
to accrue plan benefits after completing one year
of service, and beginning January 1, 2008, benefits
generally vest after three years of service. The
Firm also offers benefits through defined benefit
pension plans to qualifying employees in certain
non-U.S. locations based upon factors such as
eligible compensation, age and/or years of service.

It is the Firm s policy to fund the pension plans
in amounts sufficient to meet the requirements
under
applicable employee benefit and local tax laws. On
January 15, 2009, the Firm made a discretionary
cash contribution to its U.S. defined benefit
pension plan of $1.3 billion, funding the plan to
the maximum allowable amount under applicable tax
law. The expected amount of 2009 contributions to
its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans is $44
million, of which $20 million is contractually
required. The amount of potential 2009
contributions to the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) defined benefit plans is
not reasonably estimable at this time.

JPMorgan Chase also has a number of defined benefit
pension plans not subject to Title IV of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act. The most
significant of these plans is the Excess Retirement
Plan, pursuant to which certain employees earn pay
and interest credits on compensation amounts above
the maximum stipulated by law under a qualified
plan. The Excess Retirement Plan had an unfunded
projected benefit obligation in the amount of $273
million and $262 million, at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively.

Defined contribution plans  
JPMorgan Chase offers several defined contribution
plans in the U.S. and in certain non-U.S.
locations, all of which are administered in
accordance with applicable local laws and
regulations. The most significant of these plans is
The JPMorgan Chase 401(k) Savings Plan (the  401(k)
Savings Plan ), which covers substantially all U.S.
employees. The 401(k) Savings Plan allows employees
to make pretax and Roth 401(k) contributions to
tax-deferred investment portfolios. The JPMorgan
Chase Common Stock Fund, which is an investment
option under the 401(k) Savings Plan, is a
nonleveraged employee stock ownership plan. The
Firm matches eligible employee contributions up to
a certain percentage of benefits-eligible
compensation per pay period, subject to plan and
legal limits. Employees begin to receive matching
contributions after completing a
one-year-of-service requirement and are immediately
vested in the Firm s contributions when made.
Employees with total annual cash compensation of
$250,000 or more are not eligible for matching
contributions. The 401(k) Savings Plan also permits
discretionary profit-sharing contributions by
participating companies for certain employees,
subject to a specified vesting schedule.

OPEB plans  
JPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and
life insurance benefits to certain retirees and
postretirement medical benefits to qualifying U.S.
employees. These benefits vary with length of
service and date of hire and provide for limits on
the Firm s share of covered medical benefits. The
medical benefits are contributory, while the life
insurance benefits are noncontributory.
Postretirement medical benefits also are offered to
qualifying U.K. employees.

JPMorgan Chase s U.S. OPEB obligation is funded
with corporate-owned life insurance ( COLI )
purchased on the lives of eligible employees and
retirees. While the Firm owns the COLI policies,
COLI proceeds (death benefits, withdrawals and
other distributions) may be
used only to reimburse the Firm for its net
postretirement benefit claim payments and related
administrative expense. The U.K. OPEB plan is
unfunded.

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets and funded
status amounts reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the Firm s U.S. and non-U.S. defined
benefit pension and OPEB plans.

(a) 
       
     Represents overfunded plans with an aggregate balance of $122 million and $3.3
billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and underfunded plans with an
aggregate balance of $938 million and $491 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

(b) 
       
     The table above does not include any amounts attributable to the Washington Mutual
Pension and OPEB plans. The disposition of those plans has not been determined. 

(c) 
       
     At December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately $313 million and $299 million,
respectively, of U.S. plan assets included participation rights under participating
annuity contracts. 

(d) 
       
     Includes an unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of $32 million
and $49 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively, for the U.K. plan. 

(e) 
       
     Represents change resulting from the Bear Stearns merger. 

The following table presents pretax pension and OPEB amounts recorded in AOCI.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the
Consolidated Statements of Income and other comprehensive income for the Firm s U.S. and non-U.S.
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.

(a) 
       
     Includes various defined benefit pension plans, which are individually immaterial. 

The estimated pretax amounts that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost in
2009 are as follows.

Plan assumptions  
JPMorgan Chase s expected long-term rate of return
for U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan
assets is a blended average of the investment
advisor s projected long-term (10 years or more)
returns for the various asset classes, weighted by
the asset allocation. Returns on asset classes are
developed using a forward-looking building-block
approach and are not strictly based upon historical
returns. Equity returns are generally developed as
the sum of inflation, expected real earnings growth
and expected long-term dividend yield. Bond returns
are generally developed as the sum of inflation,
real bond yield and

risk spread (as appropriate), adjusted for the
expected effect on returns from changing yields.
Other asset-class returns are derived from their
relationship to the equity and bond markets.
Consideration was also given to current market
conditions and the short-term portfolio mix of
each Plan; as a result, the Firm has generally
maintained the same expected return on assets from
the prior year.

For the U.K. defined benefit pension plans, which
represent the most significant of the non-U.S.
defined benefit pension plans, procedures similar
to those in the U.S. are used to develop the
expected

Table of Contents   

long-term rate of return on defined benefit
pension plan assets, taking into consideration
local market conditions and the specific
allocation of plan assets. The expected long-term
rate of return on U.K. plan assets is an average
of projected long-term returns for each asset
class. The return on equities has been selected by
reference to the yield on long-term U.K.
government bonds plus an equity risk premium above
the risk-free rate. The return on  AA -rated
long-term corporate bonds has been taken as the
average yield on such bonds, adjusted for the
expected downgrades and the expected narrowing of
credit spreads over the long term.

The discount rate used in determining the benefit
obligation under the U.S. defined benefit pension
and OPEB plans was selected by reference to the
yields on portfolios of bonds

with maturity dates
and coupons that closely match each of the plan s
projected cash flows; such portfolios are derived
from a broad-based universe of high-quality
corporate bonds as of the measurement date. In
years in which these hypothetical bond portfolios
generate excess cash, such excess is assumed to be
reinvested at the one-year forward rates implied by
the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve published as
of the measurement date. The discount rate for the
U.K. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans
represents a rate implied from the yield curve of
the year-end iBoxx   corporate  AA  15-year-plus
bond index (adjusted for expected downgrades in the
underlying bonds comprising the index) with a
duration corresponding to that of the underlying
benefit obligations.

The following tables present the
weighted-average annualized actuarial assumptions
for the projected and accumulated postretirement
benefit obligations and the components of net
periodic benefit costs for the Firm s U.S. and
non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans,
as of and for the periods indicated.

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations 

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs 

The following table presents the effect of a
one-percentage-point change in the assumed health
care cost trend rate on JPMorgan Chase s total
service and interest cost and accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation.

For the year ended  
       
     1-Percentage- 

1-Percentage- 

December 31, 2008  
       
     point 

point 

(in millions) 
       
     increase 

decrease 

Effect on total service and interest cost

$ 
     3 

$ 
     (3 
     ) 

Effect on accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation

45 

(40 
     ) 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

At December 31, 2008, the Firm increased the
discount rates used to determine its benefit
obligations for the U.S. defined benefit pension
and OPEB plans based upon current market interest
rates, which will result in a decrease in expense
of approximately $1.6 million for 2009. The 2009
expected long-term rate of return on U.S. pension
plan assets and U.S. OPEB plan assets remained at
7.5% and 7.0%, respectively. The health care
benefit obligation trend assumption declined from
9.25% in 2008 to 8.5% in 2009, declining to a rate
of 5% in 2014. As of December 31, 2008, the
interest crediting rate assumption and the assumed
rate of compensation increase remained at 5.25% and
4.0%, respectively.

JPMorgan Chase s U.S. defined benefit pension and
OPEB plan expense is sensitive to the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets and the
discount rate. With all other assumptions held
constant, a 25-basis point decline in the expected
long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets would
result in an increase of approximately $23 million
in 2009 U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan
expense. A 25-basis point decline in the discount
rate for the U.S. plans would result in an increase
in 2009 U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan
expense of approximately $9 million and an increase
in the related projected benefit obligations of
approximately $159 million. A 25-basis point
decline in the discount rates for the non-U.S.
plans would result in an increase in the 2009
non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan
expense of approximately $10 million. A 25-basis
point increase in the interest crediting rate for
the U.S. defined benefit pension plan would result
in an increase in 2009 U.S. defined benefit pension
expense of approximately $16 million and an
increase in the related projected benefit
obligations of approximately $66 million.

Investment strategy and asset allocation  
The investment policy for the Firm s postretirement
employee benefit plan assets is to optimize the
risk-return relationship as appropriate to the
respective plan s needs and goals, using a global
portfolio of various asset classes diversified by
market segment, economic sector and issuer.
Specifically, the goal is to optimize the asset mix
for future benefit obligations, while managing
various risk factors and each plan s investment
return objectives. For example, long-duration fixed
income securities are included in the U.S.
qualified pension plan s asset allocation, in
recognition of its long-duration obligations. Plan
assets are managed by a combination of internal and
external investment managers and are rebalanced
within approved ranges on a continued basis. The
Firm reviews the allocation daily and all factors
that impact portfolio changes to ensure the Plan
stays within these ranges, rebalancing when deemed
necessary.

The Firm s U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets
are held in trust and invested in a
well-diversified portfolio of equities (including
U.S. large and small capitalization
and international equities), fixed income
(including corporate and government bonds, Treasury
inflation-indexed and high-yield securities), real
estate, cash equivalents and alternative
investments. Non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan
assets are held in various trusts and similarly
invested in well-diversified portfolios of equity,
fixed income and other securities. Assets of the
Firm s COLI policies, which are used to fund
partially the U.S. OPEB plan, are held in separate
accounts with an insurance company and are invested
in equity and fixed income index funds. As of
December 31, 2008, assets held by the Firm s U.S.
and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans
do not include JPMorgan Chase common stock, except
in connection with investments in third-party
stock-index funds.

The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation of the fair values of total plan
assets at December 31 for the years indicated, as well as the respective approved range/target
allocation by asset category, for the Firm s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB
plans.

(a) 
       
     Represents the U.S. OPEB plan only, as the U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded. 

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the actual rate of return on plan assets for the U.S. and non-U.S.
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.

Estimated future benefit payments  
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid, which include the effect of
expected future service, for the years indicated. The OPEB medical and life insurance payments are
net of expected retiree contributions.

Note 10   Employee stock-based incentives 

Effective January 1, 2006, the Firm adopted
SFAS 123R and all related interpretations using the
modified prospective transition method. SFAS 123R
requires all share-based payments to employees,
including employee stock options and stock
appreciation rights ( SARs ), to be measured at
their grant date fair values. The Firm also adopted
the transition election provided by FSP FAS
123(R)-3.

Upon adopting SFAS 123R, the Firm began to
recognize in the Consolidated Statements of Income
compensation expense for unvested stock options
previously accounted for under APB 25.
Additionally, JPMorgan Chase recognized as
compensation expense an immaterial cumulative
effect adjustment resulting from the SFAS 123R
requirement to estimate forfeitures at the grant
date instead of recognizing them as incurred.
Finally, the Firm revised its accounting policies
for share-based payments granted to employees
eligible for continued vesting under specific age
and service or service-related provisions
( full-career eligible employees ) under SFAS 123R.
Prior to adopting SFAS 123R, the Firm s accounting
policy for share-based payment awards granted to
full-career eligible employees was to recognize
compensation cost over the award s stated service
period. Beginning with awards granted to
full-career eligible employees in 2006, JPMorgan
Chase recognized compensation expense on the grant
date without giving consideration to the impact of
post-employment restrictions. In the first quarter
of 2006, the Firm also began to accrue the
estimated cost of stock awards granted to
full-career eligible employees in the following
year.

In June 2007, the FASB ratified EITF 06-11, which
requires that realized tax benefits from dividends
or dividend equivalents paid on equity-classified
share-based payment awards that are charged to
retained earnings be recorded as an increase to
additional paid-in capital and included in the pool
of excess tax benefits available to

absorb tax deficiencies on share-based payment
awards. Prior to the issuance of EITF 06-11, the
Firm did not include these tax benefits as part of
this pool of excess tax benefits. The Firm adopted
EITF
06-11 on January 1, 2008. The adoption of this
consensus did not have an impact on the Firm s
Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of
operations.

In connection with the Bear Stearns merger, 46
million Bear Stearns employee stock awards,
principally restricted stock units ( RSUs ),
capital appreciation plan units and stock options,
were exchanged for equivalent
JPMorgan Chase awards using the merger exchange
ratio of 0.21753. The fair value of these employee
stock awards was included in the purchase price
since substantially all of the awards were fully
vested immediately after the merger date under
provisions that provided for accelerated vesting
upon a change of control of Bear Stearns. However,
Bear Stearns vested employee stock options had no
impact on the purchase price; since the employee
stock options were significantly out of the money
at the merger date, the fair value of these awards
was equal to zero upon their conversion into
JPMorgan Chase options.

The Firm also exchanged 6 million shares of its
common stock for 27 million shares of Bear Stearns
common stock held in an irrevocable grantor trust
(the  RSU Trust ) using the merger exchange ratio
of 0.21753. The RSU Trust was established to hold
common stock underlying awards granted to selected
employees and key executives under certain Bear
Stearns employee stock plans. The RSU Trust was
consolidated on JPMorgan Chase s Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2008, and the shares
held in the RSU Trust were recorded in  Shares held
in RSU Trust,  which reduced stockholders  equity,
similar to the treatment for treasury stock. A
related obligation to issue stock under these
employee stock plans is reported in capital
surplus. The issuance of shares held in the RSU
Trust to employees will not have any effect on the
Firm s total stockholders  equity, net

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

income or earnings per share. Shares in the RSU
Trust were distributed in 2008 with approximately
half of the shares in the RSU Trust distributed in
January 2009. The remaining shares are expected to
be distributed over the next four years.

Employee stock-based awards  
In 2008, 2007 and 2006, JPMorgan Chase granted
long-term stock-based awards to certain key
employees under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(the  2005 Plan ). The 2005 Plan, plus prior Firm
plans and plans assumed as the result of
acquisitions, constitute the Firm s stock-based
incentive plans ( LTI Plan ). The 2005 Plan became
effective on May 17, 2005, after approval by
shareholders at the 2005 annual meeting. In May
2008, the 2005 Plan was amended and under the terms
of the amended plan as of December 31, 2008, 348
million shares of common stock are available for
issuance through May 2013. The amended 2005 Plan is
the only active plan under which the Firm is
currently granting stock-based incentive awards.

RSUs are awarded at no cost to the recipient upon
their grant. RSUs are generally granted annually
and generally vest 50 percent after two years and
50 percent after three years and convert to shares
of common stock at the vesting date. In addition,
RSUs typically include
full-career eligibility provisions, which allow
employees to continue to vest upon voluntary
termination, subject to post-employment and other
restrictions. All of these awards are subject to
forfeiture until the vesting date. An RSU entitles
the recipient to receive cash payments equivalent
to any dividends paid on the underlying common
stock during the period the RSU is outstanding.

Under the LTI Plan, stock options and SARs have
been granted with an exercise price equal to the
fair value of JPMorgan Chase s common stock on the
grant date. The Firm typically awards SARs to
certain key employees once per year, and it also
periodically grants discretionary stock-based
incentive awards to individual employees, primarily
in the form of both employee stock options and
SARs. The 2008 and 2007 grants of SARs to key
employees vest ratably over five years (i.e., 20%
per year) and the 2006 awards vest one-third after
each of years three, four, and five. These awards
do not include any full-career eligibility
provisions and all awards generally expire ten
years after the grant date.

The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense
for each tranche of each award as if it were a
separate award with its own vesting date. For each
tranche granted (other than grants to employees who
are full-career eligible at the grant date),
compensation expense is recognized on a
straight-line basis from the grant date until the
vesting date of the respective tranche, provided
that the employees will not become full-career
eligible during the vesting period. For each
tranche granted to employees who will become
full-career eligible during the vesting period,
compensation expense is recognized on a
straight-line basis from the grant date until the
earlier of the employee s full-career eligibility
date or the vesting date of the respective tranche.

The Firm s policy for issuing shares upon
settlement of employee stock-based incentive awards
is to issue either new shares of common stock or
treasury shares. During 2008 and 2007, the Firm
settled all of its employee stock-based awards by
issuing treasury shares. During 2006, the Firm
settled all of its employee stock-based awards by
issuing new shares of common stock from January 1
through May 31, 2006, and by issuing treasury
shares thereafter.

In January 2008, the Firm awarded to its Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer up to two million SARs.
The terms of this award are distinct from, and more
restrictive than, other equity grants regularly
awarded by the Firm. The SARs, which have a
ten-year term, will become exercisable no earlier
than January 22, 2013, and have an exercise price
of $39.83, the price of JPMorgan Chase common stock
on the date of the award. The number of SARs that
will become exercisable (ranging from none to the
full two million) and their exercise date or dates
may be determined by the Board of Directors based
on an assessment of the performance of both the CEO
and JPMorgan Chase. That assessment will be made by
the Board in the year prior to the fifth
anniversary of the date of the award, relying on
such factors that in its sole discretion the Board
deems
appropriate. Due to the substantial uncertainty
surrounding the number of SARs that will ultimately
be granted and their exercise dates, a grant date
has not been established for accounting purposes.
However, since the service inception date precedes
the grant date, the Firm will recognize this award
ratably over an assumed five-year service period,
subject to a requirement to recognize changes in
the fair value of the award through the grant date.
The Firm recognized $1 million in compensation
expense in 2008 for this award.

RSU activity  
Compensation expense for RSUs is measured based
upon the number of shares granted multiplied by
the stock price at the grant date and is
recognized in net income as previously described.
The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase s
RSU activity for 2008.

Year ended December 31, 2008 

The total fair value of shares that vested
during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006, was $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.3
billion, respectively.

Table of Contents   

Employee stock option and SARs activity 

Compensation expense, which is measured at the grant date as the fair value of employee stock
options and SARs, is recognized in net income as described above.

The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase s employee stock option and SARs activity for the
year ended December 31, 2008, including awards granted to key employees and awards granted in prior
years under broad-based plans.

Year ended December 31, 2008 

The weighted-average grant date per share fair
value of stock options and SARs granted during the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, was
$10.36, $13.38 and $10.99, respectively. The total
intrinsic value of options exercised during the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was
$391 million, $937 million and $994 million,
respectively.

Impact of adoption of SFAS 123R  
During 2006, the incremental expense related to the
Firm s adoption of SFAS 123R was $712 million. This
amount represents an accelerated noncash
recognition of costs that would otherwise have been
incurred in future periods. Also, as a result of
adopting SFAS 123R, the Firm s income from
continuing operations (pretax) for the year ended
December 31, 2006, was lower by $712 million, and
each of income from continuing operations
(after-tax) and net income for the year ended
December 31, 2006, was lower by $442 million, than
if the Firm had continued to account for
stock-based incentives under APB 25 and SFAS 123.
Basic and diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations, as well as basic and diluted
net income per share, for the year ended December
31, 2006 were $.13 and $.12 lower, respectively,
than if the Firm had not adopted SFAS 123R.

Compensation expense  
The Firm recognized noncash compensation expense
related to its various employee stock-based
incentive awards of $2.6 billion, $2.0 billion and
$2.4 billion (including the $712 million
incremental impact of adopting SFAS 123R) for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006,
respectively, in its Consolidated Statements of
Income. These amounts included an accrual for the
estimated cost of stock awards to be granted to
full-career eligible employees of $409 million,
$500 million and $498 million for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At
December 31, 2008, approximately $1.9 billion
(pretax) of compensation cost related to unvested
awards has not yet been charged to net income. That
cost is expected to be amortized into compensation
expense over a weighted-average period of 1.3
years. The Firm does not capitalize any
compensation cost related to share-based
compensation awards to employees.

Cash flows and tax benefits  
The total income tax benefit related to
stock-based incentive arrangements recognized in
the Firm s Consolidated Statements of Income for
the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
was $1.1 billion, $810 million and $947 million,
respectively.

The following table sets forth the cash received
from the exercise of stock options under all
stock-based incentive arrangements and the actual
tax benefit realized related to the tax deduction
from the exercise of stock options.

Valuation assumptions  
The following table presents the assumptions used
to value employee stock options and SARs granted
during the period under the Black-Scholes
valuation model.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Firm
used the historical volatility of its common stock
price as the expected volatility assumption in
valuing options. The Firm completed a review of its
expected volatility assumption in 2006. Effective
October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase began to value its
employee stock options granted or modified after
that date using an expected volatility assumption
derived from the implied volatility of its publicly
traded stock options.

The expected life assumption is an estimate of the
length of time that an employee might hold an
option or SAR before it is exercised or canceled.
The expected life assumption was developed using
historic experience.

Note 11   Noninterest expense 

Merger costs 

Costs associated with the Bear Stearns merger and
the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008, the 2004
merger with Bank One Corporation, and The Bank of
New York, Inc. ( The Bank of New York ) transaction
in 2006 are reflected in the merger costs caption
of the Consolidated Statements of Income. For a
further discussion of the Bear Stearns merger and
the Washington Mutual transaction, see Note 2 on
pages 123 128 of this Annual Report. A summary of
merger-related costs is shown in the following
table.

(a) 
       
     With the exception of occupancy and technology-related write-offs, all of the costs in
the table required the expenditure of cash. 

(b) 
       
     The 2007 and 2006 activity reflect the 2004 merger with Bank One Corporation and the
Bank of New York transaction. 

The table below shows the change in the merger reserve balance related to the costs associated
with the transactions.

Note 12   Securities 

Securities are classified as AFS,
held-to-maturity ( HTM ) or trading. Trading
securities are discussed in Note 6 on pages
146 148 of this Annual Report. Securities are
classified primarily as AFS when used to manage the
Firm s exposure to interest rate movements, as well
as to make strategic longer-term investments. AFS
securities are carried at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Unrealized gains and
losses, after any applicable SFAS 133 hedge
accounting adjustments, are reported as net
increases or decreases to accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). The specific
identification method is used to determine realized
gains and losses on AFS securities, which are
included in securities gains (losses) on the
Consolidated Statements of Income. Securities that
the Firm has the positive intent and ability to
hold to maturity are classified as HTM and are
carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The Firm has not classified new
purchases of securities as HTM for the past several
years.

The following table presents realized gains and
losses from AFS securities.

(a) 
       
     Proceeds from securities sold were within approximately 2% of amortized cost. 

(b) 
       
     2008 includes $76 million of losses due to the other-than-temporary impairment of
subprime mortgage-backed securities. 

Table of Contents   

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and HTM securities were as follows for the
dates indicated.

(a) 
       
     Consists primarily of mortgage-related obligations. 

(b) 
       
     Consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored
entities. 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

The following table presents the fair value and gross unrealized losses for AFS securities by
aging category at December 31.

Table of Contents   

AFS securities in unrealized loss positions are
analyzed in depth as part of the Firm s ongoing
assessment of other-than-temporary impairment.
Potential other-than-temporary impairment of AFS
securities is considered using a variety of
factors, including the length of time and extent to
which the market value has been less than cost; the
financial condition and near-term prospects of the
issuer or underlying collateral of a security; and
the Firm s intent and ability to retain the
security in order to allow for an anticipated
recovery in fair value. Where applicable under EITF
Issue 99-20, the Firm estimates the cash flows over
the life of the security to determine if any
adverse changes have occurred that require an
other-than-temporary impairment charge. The Firm
applies EITF Issue 99-20 to beneficial interests in
securitizations that are rated below  AA  at
acquisition or that can be contractually prepaid or
otherwise settled in such a way that the Firm would
not recover substantially all of its recorded
investment. The Firm considers a decline in fair
value to be other-than-temporary if it is probable
that the Firm will not recover its recorded
investment, including as applicable under EITF
Issue 99-20, when an adverse change in cash flows
has occurred.

The Firm s analysis of the financial condition and
near term prospects of the issuer or underlying
collateral of a security noted above includes
analysis of performance indicators relevant to the
specific investment. For asset-backed investments,
such relevant performance indicators may include
ratings, valuation of subordinated positions in
current and/or stress scenarios, excess spread or
overcollateralization

levels, and whether certain protective triggers
have been reached. For mortgage-backed investments,
such relevant performance indicators may include
ratings, prepayment speeds, delinquencies, default
rates, loss severities, geographic concentration,
and forecasted performance under various home price
decline stress scenarios.

As of December 31, 2008, approximately $438 million
of the unrealized losses relate to securities that
have been in an unrealized loss position for longer
than 12 months, and primarily relate to prime
mortgage-backed securities and credit card-related
asset-backed securities. The prime mortgage-backed
securities are primarily rated  AAA , while the
credit card-related asset-backed securities are rated  BBB . Based upon the
analyses described above, which have been applied
to these securities, the Firm believes that the
unrealized losses result from liquidity conditions
in the current market environment and not from
concerns regarding the credit of the issuers or
underlying collateral. The Firm does not believe it
is probable that it will not recover its
investments, given the current levels of collateral
and credit enhancements that exist to protect the
investments. For securities analyzed for impairment
under EITF 99-20, the collateral and credit
enhancement features are at levels sufficient to
ensure that an adverse change in expected future
cash flows has not occurred.

As of December 31, 2008, approximately $6.2
billion of the unrealized losses relate to
securities that have been in an unrealized loss
position for less than 12 months; these losses
largely relate to credit

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

card-related asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities issued by private issuers and commercial and industrial asset-backed securities. Of the $2.0 billion of
unrealized losses related to credit card-related
asset-backed securities, $1.7 billion relates to
purchased credit card-related asset-backed
securities, and $304 million relates to retained
interests in the Firm s own credit card receivable
securitizations. The credit card-related
asset-backed securities include  AAA ,  A  and
 BBB  ratings. Based on the levels of excess spread
available to absorb credit losses, and
based on the value of interests subordinate to the
Firm s interests where applicable, the Firm does
not believe it is probable that it will not recover
its investments. Where applicable under EITF 99-20,
the collateral and credit enhancement features are
at levels sufficient to ensure that an adverse
change in expected future cash flows has not
occurred. Of the remaining unrealized losses as of
December 31, 2008, related to securities that have
been in an unrealized loss position for less than

12 months, $2.7 billion relates to
mortgage-backed securities issued by private
issuers and $820 million relates to commercial and industrial asset-backed securities. The mortgage-backed securities and commercial and industrial asset-backed securities are
predominantly rated  AAA . Based on an analysis of
the performance indicators noted above for
mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities, which have been applied
to the loans underlying these securities, the Firm does not believe
it is probable that it will not recover its
investments in these securities.

The Firm intends to hold the securities in an
unrealized loss position for a period of time sufficient to
allow for an anticipated recovery in fair value or
maturity. The Firm has sufficient capital and
liquidity to hold these securities until recovery
in fair value or maturity. Based on the Firm s
evaluation of the factors and other objective
evidence described above, the Firm believes that
the securities are not other-than-temporarily
impaired as of December 31, 2008.

The following table presents the amortized cost, estimated fair value and average yield at December
31, 2008, of JPMorgan Chase s AFS and HTM securities by contractual maturity.

(a) 
       
     Includes securities with no stated maturity. Substantially all of the Firm s
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are due in ten years or
more based upon contractual maturity. The estimated duration, which reflects anticipated
future prepayments based upon a consensus of dealers in the market, is approximately four
years for mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. 

(b) 
       
     The average yield is based upon amortized cost balances at year-end. Yields are
derived by dividing interest income by total amortized cost. Taxable-equivalent yields are
used where applicable. 

Note 13
  Securities financing activities 

JPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements,
repurchase agreements, securities borrowed
transactions and securities loaned transactions,
primarily to finance the Firm s inventory
positions, acquire securities to cover short
positions and settle other securities obligations.
The Firm also enters into these transactions to
accommodate customers  needs.

Resale agreements and repurchase agreements are
generally treated as collateralized financing
transactions carried on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets at the amounts the securities will be
subsequently sold or repurchased, plus accrued
interest. On January 1, 2007, pursuant to the
adoption of SFAS 159, the Firm elected fair value
measurement for certain resale and repurchase
agreements. In 2008, the Firm elected fair value
measurement for certain newly transacted securities
borrowed and securities lending agreements. For a
further discussion of SFAS 159, see Note 5 on pages
144 146 of this Annual Report. The securities
financing agreements for which the fair value
option was elected continue to be reported within
securities purchased under resale agreements;
securities loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements; securities borrowed; and other borrowed
funds on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Generally, for agreements

carried at fair value, current-period interest
accruals are recorded within interest income and
interest expense, with changes in fair value
reported in principal transactions revenue.
However, for financial instruments containing
embedded derivatives that would be separately
accounted for in accordance with SFAS 133, all
changes in fair value, including any interest
elements, are reported in principal transactions
revenue. Where appropriate, resale and repurchase
agreements with the same counterparty are reported
on a net basis in accordance with FIN 41. JPMorgan
Chase takes possession of securities purchased
under resale agreements. On a daily basis, JPMorgan
Chase monitors the market value of the underlying
collateral, primarily U.S. and non-U.S. government
and agency securities, that it has received from
its counterparties, and requests additional
collateral when necessary.

Transactions similar to financing activities that
do not meet the SFAS 140 definition of a repurchase
agreement are accounted for as  buys  and  sells 
rather than financing transactions. These
transactions are accounted for as a purchase (sale)
of the underlying securities with a forward
obligation to sell (purchase) the securities. The
forward purchase (sale) obligation, a derivative,
is recorded on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets at its fair value, with changes in fair
value recorded in principal transactions revenue.

Table of Contents   

Securities borrowed and securities lent are
recorded at the amount of cash collateral advanced
or received. Securities borrowed consist primarily
of government and equity securities. JPMorgan Chase
monitors the market value of the securities
borrowed and lent on a daily basis and calls for
additional collateral when appropriate. Fees
received or paid in connection with securities
borrowed and lent are recorded in interest income
or interest expense.

The following table details the components of collateralized financings.

JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial
instruments it owns to collateralize repurchase
agreements and other securities financings. Pledged
securities that can be sold or repledged by the
secured party are identified as financial
instruments owned (pledged to various parties) on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

At December 31, 2008, the Firm received securities
as collateral that could be repledged, delivered or
otherwise used with a fair value of approximately
$511.9 billion. This collateral was generally
obtained under resale or securities borrowing
agreements. Of these securities, approximately
$456.6 billion were repledged, delivered or
otherwise used, generally as collateral under
repurchase agreements, securities lending
agreements or to cover short sales.

Note
14   Loans 

The accounting for a loan may differ based upon
whether it is originated or purchased and as to
whether the loan is used in an investing or trading
strategy. For purchased loans held-for-investment,
the accounting also differs depending on whether a
loan is credit-impaired at the date of acquisition.
Purchased loans with evidence of credit
deterioration since the origination date and for
which it is probable, at acquisition, that all
contractually required payments receivable will not
be collected are considered to be credit-impaired.
The measurement framework for loans in the
Consolidated Financial Statements is one of the
following:

At the principal amount outstanding, net of the allowance for loan losses, unearned
income and any net deferred loan fees or costs, for loans held for investment (other than
purchased credit-impaired loans); 

At the lower of cost or fair value, with valuation changes recorded in noninterest
revenue, for loans that are classified as held-for-sale; or 

At fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in noninterest revenue, for loans
classified as trading assets or risk managed on a fair value basis; 

Purchased credit-impaired loans held for investment are accounted for under SOP
03-3 and initially measured at fair value, which includes estimated future credit losses.
Accordingly, an allowance for loan losses related to these loans is not recorded at the
acquisition date. 

See Note 5
on pages 144 146 of this Annual Report
for further information on the Firm s elections of
fair value accounting under SFAS 159. See Note 6
on pages 146 148 of this Annual Report for
further information on loans carried at fair value
and classified as trading assets.

For loans held for investment, other than purchased
credit-impaired loans, interest income is
recognized using the interest method or on a basis
approximating a level rate of return over the term
of the loan.

Loans within the held-for-investment portfolio that
management decides to sell are transferred to the
held-for-sale portfolio. Transfers to held-for-sale
are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value on
the date of transfer. Credit-related losses are
charged off to the allowance for loan losses and
losses due to changes in interest rates, or
exchange rates, are recognized in noninterest
revenue.

Loans within the held-for-sale portfolio that
management decides to retain are transferred to the
held-for-investment portfolio at the lower of cost
or fair value. These loans are subsequently
assessed for impairment based on the Firm s
allowance methodology. For a further discussion of
the methodologies used in establishing the Firm s
allowance for loan losses, see Note 15 on pages
166 168 of this Annual Report.

Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of
interest is discontinued. Loans (other than certain
consumer and purchased credit-impaired loans
discussed below) are placed on nonaccrual status
immediately if, in the opinion of management, full
payment of principal or interest is in doubt, or
when principal or interest is 90 days or more past
due and collateral, if any, is insufficient to
cover principal and interest. Loans are charged off
to the allowance for loan losses when it is highly
certain that a loss has been realized. Interest
accrued but not collected at the date a loan is
placed on nonaccrual status is reversed against
interest income. In addition, the amortization of
net deferred loan fees is suspended. Interest
income on nonaccrual loans is recognized only to
the extent it is received in cash. However, where
there is doubt regarding the ultimate
collectibility of loan principal, all cash
thereafter received is applied to reduce the
carrying value of such loans (i.e., the cost
recovery method). Loans are restored to accrual
status only when future
payments of interest and principal are reasonably
assured.

Consumer loans, other than purchased
credit-impaired loans, are generally charged to
the allowance for loan losses upon reaching
specified stages of delinquency, in accordance
with the Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council policy. For example, credit
card loans are charged off by the end of the month
in which the account becomes 180 days past due or
within 60 days from receiving notification of the
filing of bankruptcy, whichever is earlier.
Residential mortgage products are generally
charged off to net realizable value at no later
than 180 days
past due. Other consumer

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

products, if collateralized, are generally
charged off to net realizable value at 120 days
past due. Accrued interest on residential mortgage
products, automobile financings, student loans and
certain other consumer loans are accounted for in
accordance with the nonaccrual loan policy
discussed in the preceding paragraph. Interest and
fees related to credit card loans continue to
accrue until the loan is charged off or paid in
full. Accrued interest on all other consumer loans
is generally reversed against interest income when
the loan is charged off. A collateralized loan is
reclassified to assets acquired in loan
satisfactions, within other assets, only when
JPMorgan Chase has taken physical possession of the
collateral, regardless of whether formal
foreclosure proceedings have taken place.

For purchased credit-impaired loans, the excess of
the loan s cash flows expected to be collected over
the initial fair value (i.e., the accretable yield)
is accreted into interest income at a level rate of
return over the term of the loan, provided that the
timing and amount of future cash flows is
reasonably estimable. On a periodic basis, the Firm
updates the amount of cash flows expected to be
collected for these loans, incorporating
assumptions regarding default rates, loss
severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments
and other factors that are reflective of current
market conditions. Probable and significant
increases in cash flows previously expected to be
collected would first be used to reverse any
related valuation allowance; any remaining
increases are recognized prospectively as interest
income. Probable decreases in expected cash flows
after the acquisition date, excluding decreases
related to repricings of variable rate loans, are
recognized through the allowance for loan losses.
Disposals of loans, which may include sales of
loans, receipt of payments in full by the borrower,
or foreclosure, result in removal of the loan from
the SOP
03-3 portfolio.

With respect to purchased credit-impaired loans,
when
the timing and/or amounts of expected cash flows on
such loans are not reasonably estimable, no
interest is accreted and the loan is reported as a
nonperforming loan; otherwise, if the timing and
amounts of expected cash flows for purchased
credit-impaired loans are reasonably estimable,
then interest is accreted and the loans are
reported as performing loans.

The composition of the Firm s aggregate loan
portfolio at each of the dates indicated was as
follows.

(a) 
       
     Includes Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury   Securities Services and
Asset Management. 

(b) 
       
     Includes purchased credit-impaired loans of $224 million at December 31, 2008,
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction. 

(c) 
       
     Represents credits extended for real estate-related purposes to borrowers who are
primarily in the real estate development or investment businesses and which the repayment
is predominantly from the sale, lease, management, operations or refinancing of the
property. 

(d) 
       
     Includes loans for commercial   industrial, real estate, financial institutions
and other of $11.0 billion, $428 million, $1.5 billion and $995 million at December 31,
2008, respectively, and $19.6 billion, $548 million, $862 million and $2.7 billion at
December 31, 2007 respectively. 

(e) 
       
     Includes Retail Financial Services, Card Services and the Corporate/Private Equity
segment. 

(f) 
       
     Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible
amounts. 

(g) 
       
     Includes loans for prime mortgage and other (largely student loans) of $206
million and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2008, respectively, and $570 million and $3.4
billion at December 31, 2007, respectively. 

(h) 
       
     Loans (other than purchased loans and those for which the SFAS 159 fair value
option has been elected) are presented net of unearned income and net deferred loan fees
of $694 million and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Table of Contents   

The following table reflects information about the Firm s loan sales.

(a) 
       
     Excludes sales related to loans accounted for at fair value. 

Purchased credit-impaired loans  
In connection with the Washington Mutual
transaction, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain loans
that it deemed to be credit-impaired under SOP
03-3. Wholesale loans with a carrying amount of
$224 million at December 31, 2008, were determined
to be credit-impaired at the date of acquisition in
accordance with SFAS 114. These wholesale loans are
being accounted for individually (not on a pooled
basis) and are reported as nonperforming loans
since cash flows for each individual loan are not
reasonably estimable. Such loans are excluded from
the remainder of the following discussion, which
relates solely to purchased credit-impaired
consumer loans.

Purchased credit-impaired consumer loans were
determined to be credit-impaired based upon
specific risk characteristics of the loan,
including product type, loan-to-value ratios, FICO
scores, and past due status. SOP 03-3 allows
purchasers to aggregate credit-impaired loans
acquired in the same fiscal quarter into one or
more pools, provided that the loans have common
risk characteristics. A pool is then accounted for
as a single asset with a single composite interest
rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.
With respect to the Washington Mutual transaction,
all of the consumer loans were aggregated into
pools of loans with common risk characteristics.

The table below sets forth information about
these purchased credit-impaired consumer loans
at the acquisition date.

(a) 
       
     Date of the Washington Mutual transaction. 

(b) 
       
     The amounts in the table above were revised in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to
the Firm s refinement of both estimates and its application of certain provisions of SOP
03-3. 

(c) 
       
     Represents undiscounted principal and interest cash flows expected at acquisition. 

(d) 
       
     This amount is recognized into interest income over the estimated life of the
underlying loans. 

The Firm determined the fair value of the
purchased credit-impaired consumer loans by
discounting the cash flows expected to be collected
at a market observable discount rate, when available, adjusted for
factors that a market participant would consider in
determining fair value. In determining the cash
flows expected to be collected, management
incorporated assumptions regarding default rates,
loss severities and the amounts and timing of
prepayments. Contractually required payments were
determined following the same process used to
estimate cash flows expected to be collected, but
without incorporating assumptions related to
default rates and loss severities.

Purchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the
Washington Mutual transaction are reported in loans
on the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Following the initial acquisition date of these
loans, the allowance for loan losses, if any is
required, would be reported as a reduction of the
carrying amount of the loans. No allowance has been
recorded for these loans as of December 31, 2008.
The outstanding balance and the carrying value of
the purchased credit-impaired consumer loans were
as follows.

(a) 
       
     Represents the sum of principal and earned interest at the reporting date. 

Interest income is being accreted on the
purchased credit-impaired consumer loans based on
the Firm s belief that both the timing and amount
of cash flows expected to be collected is
reasonably estimable. For variable rate loans,
expected future cash flows are based on the current
contractual rate of the underlying loans.

The table
below sets forth the accretable yield activity for
these loans for the year ended December 31, 2008.

Impaired loans 

A loan is considered impaired when, based upon
current information and events, it is probable that
the Firm will be unable to collect all amounts due
(including principal and interest) according to the
contractual terms of the loan agreement. Impaired
loans include certain nonaccrual wholesale loans
and loans for which a charge-off has been recorded
based upon the fair value of the underlying
collateral. Impaired loans also include loans that
have been modified in troubled debt restructurings
as a concession to borrowers experiencing financial
difficulties. Troubled debt restructurings
typically result from the Firm s loss mitigation
activities and could include rate reductions,
principal forgiveness, forbearance and other
actions intended to minimize the economic loss and
to avoid foreclosure or repossession of collateral.
When the Firm modifies home equity lines of credit
in troubled debt restructurings, future lending
commitments related to the modified loans are
canceled as part of the terms of the modification.
Accordingly, the Firm does not have future
commitments to lend additional funds related to
these modified loans. Purchased credit-impaired
loans are not required to be reported as impaired
loans as long as it is probable that the Firm
expects to collect all cash flows expected at
acquisition, plus additional cash flows expected to
be collected arising from changes in estimates
after acquisition.
Accordingly, none of the credit-impaired loans
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction are
reported in the following tables.

Interest income
on impaired loans is recognized based on the Firm s
policy for recognizing interest on accrual and
nonaccrual loans. Certain loans that have been
modified through troubled debt restructurings
accrue interest under this policy.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

The tables below set forth information about JPMorgan Chase s impaired loans, excluding credit
card loans which are discussed below. The Firm primarily uses the discounted cash flow method for
valuing impaired loans.

(a) 
       
     Excludes credit card loans. 

(b) 
       
     In 2008, methodologies for calculating impaired loans have changed. Prior periods
have been revised to conform to current presentation. 

(c) 
       
     When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds
the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under SFAS
114. 

(d) 
       
     The allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114 is included in JPMorgan Chase s
allowance for loan losses. The allowance for certain consumer impaired loans has been
categorized in the allowance for loan losses as formula-based. 

During 2008, loss mitigation efforts related to delinquent mortgage and home equity loans
increased substantially, resulting in a significant increase in consumer troubled debt
restructurings. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Firm announced plans to further expand loss
mitigation efforts related to these portfolios, including plans to open regional counseling
centers, hire additional loan counselors, introduce new financing alternatives, proactively reach
out to borrowers to offer pre-qualified modifications, and commence a new process to independently
review each loan before moving it into the foreclosure process. These loss mitigation efforts,
which generally represent various forms of term extensions, rate reductions
and forbearances, are expected to result in additional increases in the balance of modified loans
carried on the Firm s balance sheet, including loans accounted for as troubled debt restructurings,
while minimizing the economic loss to the Firm and providing alternatives to foreclosure.

JPMorgan Chase may modify the terms of its credit card loan agreements with borrowers who have
experienced financial difficulty. Such modifications may include canceling the customer s available
line of credit on the credit card, reducing the interest rate on the card, and placing the customer
on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. If the cardholder does not comply with the
modified terms, then the credit card loan agreement will revert back to its original terms, with
the amount of any loan outstanding reflected in the appropriate delinquency  bucket  and the loan
amounts then charged-off in accordance with the Firm s standard charge-off policy. Under these
procedures, $2.4 billion and $1.4 billion of on-balance sheet credit card loan outstandings have
been modified at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In accordance with the Firm s
methodology for determining its consumer allowance for loan losses, the Firm had already
provisioned for these credit card loans; the modifications to these credit card loans had no
incremental impact on the Firm s allowance for loan losses.

Note
15   Allowance for credit losses 

During 2008, in connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, the Firm recorded
adjustments to its provision for credit losses in the aggregate amount of $1.5 billion to conform
the Washington Mutual loan loss reserve methodologies to the appropriate JPMorgan Chase
methodology, based upon the nature and characteristics of the underlying loans. This amount
included an adjustment of $646 million to the wholesale provision for credit losses and an
adjustment of $888 million to the consumer provision for credit losses. The Firm s methodologies
for determining its allowance for credit losses, which have been applied to the Washington Mutual
loans, are described more fully below.

JPMorgan Chase s allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale (risk-rated) and consumer (scored)
loan portfolios and represents management s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the
Firm s loan portfolio. Management also computes an allowance for wholesale lending-related
commitments using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loans.

The allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific component and a formula-based component.
The asset-specific component relates to provisions for losses on loans considered impaired and
measured pursuant to SFAS 114. An allowance is established when the discounted cash flows (or
collateral value or observable market price) of the loan is lower than the carrying value of that
loan. To compute the asset-specific component of the allowance, larger impaired loans are evaluated
individually, and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool using historical loss experience
for the respective class of assets. An allowance for loan losses will also be recorded for
purchased credit-impaired loans accounted for in accordance with SOP 03-3 if there are probable
decreases in expected future cash flows other than decreases related to repricing of variable rate
loans. Any required allowance would be measured based on the present value of expected cash flows
discounted at the loan s (or pool s) effective interest rate. For additional information on
purchased credit-impaired loans, see Note 14 on pages 165 - 166 of this Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

The formula-based component covers performing wholesale and consumer loans. For risk-rated loans
(generally loans originated by the wholesale lines of business), it is based on a statistical
calculation, which is adjusted to take into consideration model imprecision, external factors and
current economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the factors used to derive
the statistical calculation. The statistical calculation is the product of probability of default
( PD ) and loss given default ( LGD ). These factors are differentiated by risk rating and expected
maturity. PD estimates are based on observable external data, primarily credit-rating agency
default statistics. LGD estimates are based on a study of actual credit losses over more than one
credit cycle. For scored loans (generally loans originated by the consumer lines of business), loss
is primarily determined by applying statistical loss factors, including loss frequency and severity
factors, to pools of loans by asset type. In developing loss frequency and severity assumptions,
known and anticipated changes in the economic environment, including changes in housing prices,
unemployment rates and other risk indicators, are considered. Multiple forecasting methods are used
to estimate statistical losses, including credit loss forecasting models and vintage-based loss
forecasting.

Management applies its judgment within specified ranges to adjust the statistical calculation.
Where adjustments are made to the statistical calculation for the risk-rated portfolios, the
determination of the
appropriate point within the range are based upon management s quantitative and qualitative
assessment of the quality of underwriting standards; relevant internal factors affecting the credit
quality of the current portfolio; and external factors such as current macroeconomic and political
conditions that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors. Factors related to
concentrated and deteriorating industries are also incorporated into the calculation, where
relevant. Adjustments to the statistical calculation for the scored loan portfolios are
accomplished in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment.
The specific ranges and the determination of the appropriate point within the range are based upon
management s view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions,
the quality of underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and external factors affecting
the credit quality of the portfolio.

The allowance for lending-related commitments represents management s estimate of probable credit
losses inherent in the Firm s process of extending credit. Management establishes an asset-specific
allowance for lending-related commitments that are considered impaired and computes a formula-based
allowance for performing wholesale lending-related commitments. These are computed using a
methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loan portfolio, modified for expected maturities
and probabilities of drawdown.

Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and requires judgment by management
about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Subsequent evaluations of the loan
portfolio, in light of the factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the
allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments in future periods.

At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer, the
Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the Firm and discussed with the Risk Policy and Audit
Committees of the Board of Directors of the Firm. As of December 31, 2008, JPMorgan Chase deemed
the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that are
inherent in the portfolio, including those not yet identifiable).

The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for loan losses.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for lending-related commitments.

(a) 
       
     Related to the Washington Mutual transaction. 

(b) 
       
     The 2006 amount represents the Bank of New York transaction. 

Note
16   Loan securitizations 

JPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety of loans, including residential mortgage, credit
card, automobile, student, and commercial loans (primarily related to real estate). JPMorgan
Chase-sponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as part of the securitization process. These SPEs are
structured to meet the definition of a QSPE (as discussed in Note 1 on page 122 of this Annual
Report); accordingly, the assets and liabilities of securitization-related QSPEs are not reflected
on the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets (except for retained interests, as described below). The
primary purpose of these securitization vehicles is to meet investor needs and to generate
liquidity for the Firm through the sale of loans to the QSPEs. These QSPEs are financed through the
issuance of fixed, or floating-rate asset-backed securities.

The Firm records a loan securitization as a sale when the accounting criteria for a sale are met.
Those criteria are: (1) the transferred assets are legally isolated from the Firm s creditors; (2)
the entity can pledge or exchange the financial assets, or if the entity is a QSPE, its investors
can pledge or exchange their
interests; and (3) the Firm does not maintain effective control to repurchase the transferred
assets before their maturity or have the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return the
transferred assets.

For loan securitizations that meet the accounting sales criteria, the gains or losses recorded
depend, in part, on the carrying amount of the loans sold except for servicing assets which are
initially recorded at fair value. At the time of sale, any retained servicing asset is initially
recognized at fair value. The remaining carrying amount of the loans sold is allocated between the
loans sold and the other interests retained, based upon their
relative fair values on the date of
sale. Gains on securitizations are reported in noninterest revenue.

When quoted market prices are not available, the Firm estimates the fair
value for these retained interests by calculating the present value of future expected cash flows
using modeling techniques. Such models incorporate management s best estimates of key variables,
such as expected credit losses, prepayment speeds and the discount rates appropriate for the risks
involved. See Note 4 on page 132 of this Annual Report for further information on the valuation of
retained interests.

The Firm may retain interests in the securitized loans in the form of undivided seller s interest,
senior or subordinated interest-only strips, debt and equity tranches, escrow accounts and
servicing rights. The classification of retained interests is dependent upon several factors,
including the type of interest, whether or not the retained interest is represented by a security
certificate and when it was retained. Interests retained by IB are classified as trading assets.
See credit card securitizations and mortgage securitizations sections
of the note for further information on the classification of their
related retained
interests. Retained interests classified as AFS that are rated below  AA  by an external rating agency
are subject to the impairment provisions of EITF 99-20, as discussed in Note 12 on page 162 of this
Annual Report.

The following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of assets held in JPMorgan
Chase-sponsored securitization entities, for which sale accounting was achieved and to which the
Firm has continuing involvement, at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Continuing involvement includes
servicing the loans, holding senior or subordinated interests, recourse or guarantee arrangements and derivative transactions. In certain
instances, the Firm s only continuing involvement is servicing
the loans. Certain of the Firm s retained interests
(trading assets, AFS securities and other assets) are reflected at their fair value.

Table of Contents   

(a) 
       
     Includes Alt-A loans. 

(b) 
       
     Includes co-sponsored commercial securitizations and, therefore, includes
non-JPMorgan Chase originated commercial mortgage loans. Commercial and other consists of securities backed by commercial loans
(predominantly real estate) and non-mortgage related consumer receivables purchased from
third parties. The Firm generally does not retain a residual interest in the Firm s sponsored
commercial mortgage securitization transactions. 

(c) 
       
     Includes securitized loans where the Firm owns less than a majority of the
subordinated or residual interests in the securitizations. 

(d) 
       
     Includes securitization-related QSPEs sponsored by heritage Bear Stearns and
heritage Washington Mutual at December 31, 2008. 

(e) 
       
     Includes credit card loans, accrued interest and fees, and cash amounts
on deposit. 

(f) 
       
     Excludes retained servicing (for a discussion of MSRs, see Note 18 on pages
187 188 of this Annual Report). 

(g) 
       
     Excludes senior and subordinated securities of $974 million at December
31, 2008, that the Firm purchased in connection with IB s
secondary market-making
activities. 

(h) 
       
     Includes investments acquired in the secondary market, but
predominantly held-for-investment purposes of $1.8 billion as of
December 31, 2008. This is comprised of $1.4 billion of
investments classified as available-for-sale, including
$172 million in credit cards, $693 million of
residential mortgages and $495 million of commercial and other;
and $452 million of investments classified as trading, including
$112 million of credit cards, $303 million of residential
mortgages, and $37 million of commercial and other. 

(i) 
       
     Excludes interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives that are primarily used to
manage the interest rate and foreign exchange risks of the securitization entities. See
Note 6 and Note 32 on pages 146 147 and 202 205, respectively, of this Annual Report for
further information on derivatives. 

(j) 
       
     Excludes senior and subordinated securities of
$9.8 billion at December 31, 2007, that were retained at the
time of securitization in connection with IB s underwriting
activity or that are purchased in connection with IB s secondary
market-making activities. 

Securitization activity by major product type  
The following discussion describes the nature of the Firm s securitization activities by major
product type.

Credit Card Securitizations  
The Card Services ( CS ) business securitizes originated and purchased credit card loans. The Firm s primary
continuing involvement includes servicing the receivables, retaining an undivided seller s interest
in the receivables, retaining certain senior and subordinated securities and the maintenance of
escrow accounts.

CS maintains servicing responsibilities for all credit card securitizations that it sponsors. As
servicer and transferor, the Firm receives contractual servicing fees based upon the securitized
loan balance plus excess servicing fees, which are recorded in credit card income as discussed in
Note 7 on pages 148 149 of this Annual Report.

The agreements with the credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum
undivided interest in the trusts (which generally ranges from 4% to
12%). At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Firm had $33.3 billion
and $18.6 billion, respectively, related to its undivided
interests in the trusts. The Firm maintained an average undivided
interest in principal receivables in the trusts of approximately 22%
and 19% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. These undivided interests in the trusts represent the
Firm s undivided interests in the receivables transferred to the
trust that have not been securitized; these undivided interests are
not represented by security certificates, are carried at historical
cost, and are classified within loans.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Additionally,
the Firm retained subordinated interest in accrued interest and fees
on the securitized receivables totaling $3.0 billion and
$2.7 billion (net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts) as
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are
classified in other assets.

The Firm retained subordinated securities
in credit card securitization trusts totaling $2.3
billion and $284 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively, and senior securities totaling
$3.5 billion at December 31, 2008. Of the
securities retained, $5.4 billion and $284 million
were classified as AFS securities at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. Securities of $389
million that were acquired in the
Washington Mutual Bank transaction were classified
as trading assets at December 31, 2008.
The senior AFS securities were used by the Firm as
collateral for a secured financing transaction.

The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to
predetermined limits for some credit card
securitizations to cover deficiencies in cash flows
owed to investors. The amounts available in such
escrow accounts related to credit cards are
recorded in other assets and amounted to $74
million and $97 million as of December
31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Mortgage Securitizations  
The Firm securitizes originated and purchased
residential mortgages and originated commercial
mortgages.

RFS securitizes residential mortgage loans that it
originates and purchases and it typically retains
servicing for all of its originated and purchased
residential mortgage loans. Additionally, RFS may
retain servicing for certain mortgage loans
purchased by IB. As servicer, the Firm receives
servicing fees based upon the securitized loan
balance plus ancillary fees. The Firm also retains
the right to service the residential mortgage loans
it sells to the Government National Mortgage
Association ( GNMA ), Federal National Mortgage Association
( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
( Freddie Mac ) in
accordance with their servicing guidelines and
standards. For a discussion of MSRs, see Note 18 on
pages 187 188 of this Annual Report. In a limited
number of securitizations, RFS may retain an
interest in addition to servicing rights. The
amount of interest retained related to these
securitizations totaled $939 million and $221
million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. These retained interests are
accounted for as trading or AFS securities; the classification
depends on whether the retained interest is represented by a security
certificate, has an embedded derivative, and when it was retained
(i.e., prior to the adoption of SFAS 155).

IB securitizes residential mortgage loans
(including those that it purchased and certain
mortgage loans originated by RFS) and commercial
mortgage loans that it originated. Upon
securitization, IB may engage in underwriting and
trading activities of the securities issued by the
securitization trust. IB may retain unsold senior
and/or subordinated interests (including residual
interests) in both residential and commercial
mortgage securitizations at the time of
securitization. These retained interests are
accounted for at fair value and classified as
trading assets. The amount of residual interests
retained was $155 million and $547 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Additionally, IB retained $2.8 billion of senior
and subordinated interests as of December 31, 2008; these
securities were retained at securitization in connection with the
Firm s underwriting activity.

In addition to the amounts reported in the
securitization activity tables below, the Firm sold
residential mortgage loans totaling $122.0 billion,
$81.8 billion and $53.7 billion during the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. The majority of these loan sales were
for securitization by the GNMA, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. These sales resulted in pretax gains
of $32 million, $47 million and $251 million,
respectively.

The Firm s mortgage loan sales are primarily
nonrecourse, thereby effectively transferring the
risk of future credit losses to the purchaser of
the loans. However, for a limited number of loan
sales, the Firm is obligated to share up to 100% of
the credit risk associated with the sold loans with
the purchaser. See Note 33 on page 209 of this
Annual Report for additional information on loans
sold with recourse.

Table of Contents   

Other Securitizations  
The Firm also securitizes automobile and student
loans originated by RFS and purchased consumer
loans (including automobile and student loans). The
Firm retains servicing responsibilities for all
originated and certain purchased student and
automobile loans. It may also hold a retained
interest in these securitizations; such residual
interests are classified as other assets. At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Firm held $37
million and $85 million, respectively, of retained
interests in securitized automobile loans and $52 million and $55 million,
respectively, of retained interests in securitized
student loans.

The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to
predetermined limits for some automobile and
student loan securitizations to cover deficiencies
in cash flows owed to investors. These escrow
accounts are classified within other assets and
carried at fair value. The amounts available in
such escrow accounts as of December 31, 2008, were
$3 million for both automobile and student loan
securitizations; as of December 31, 2007, these
amounts were $21 million and $3 million for
automobile and student loan securitizations,
respectively.

Securitization activity  
The following tables provide information related to the Firm s securitization activities for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. For the periods presented there were no cash flows
from the Firm to the QSPEs related to recourse or guarantee arrangements.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

(a) 
       
     Other cash flows received include excess servicing fees and other ancillary fees
received. 

(b) 
       
     Includes cash paid by the Firm to reacquire assets from the QSPEs, for example,
servicer clean-up calls. 

(c) 
       
     Excludes a random removal of $6.2 billion of credit card
loans from a securitization trust previously established by
Washington Mutual and an account addition of $5.8 billion of
higher quality credit card loans from the legacy Chase portfolio to
the legacy Washington Mutual trust in
November 2008. These are
noncash transactions that are permitted by the trust documents in
order to maintain the appropriate level of undivided seller s
interest.

(d) 
       
     Includes cash flows received on retained interests including, for example,
principal repayments, and interest payments. 

(e) 
       
     PPR: principal payment rate; CPR: constant prepayment rate; ABS: absolute
prepayment speed. 

(f) 

Includes $5.5 billion of securities retained by the Firm. 

(g) 
       
     Includes securitizations sponsored by Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual as of
their respective acquisition dates. 

(h) 
       
     Includes Alt-A loans. 

(i) 
       
     As of January 1, 2007, the Firm adopted the fair value election for IB warehouse
and the RFS prime mortgage warehouse. The carrying value of these loans accounted for at
fair value approximates the proceeds received from securitization. 

(j) 
       
     Expected credit losses for consumer prime residential mortgage, and student and
certain other securitizations are minimal and are incorporated into other assumptions. 

Table of Contents   

Retained securitization interests 

The following table summarizes the Firm s retained securitization interests, which are carried at
fair value on the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets at
December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, 55% of
the Firm s retained securitization interests, which are carried at fair value, were risk rated  A 
or better.

(a) 
       
     Includes retained subordinated interests carried at fair value, including CS 
accrued interests and fees, escrow accounts, and other residual interests. Excludes
undivided seller interest in the trusts of $33.3 billion at December 31,
2008, which is carried at historical cost, and unencumbered cash
amounts on deposit of $2.1 billion at December 31, 2008. 

(b) 
       
     Includes Alt-A loans. 

(c) 
       
     The ratings scale is presented on an S P-equivalent basis. 

(d) 
       
     Excludes $1.8 billion of investments acquired in the
secondary market, but predominantly held for investment purposes. Of
this amount $1.7 billion is classified as investment grade. 

The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used at December 31, 2008 and 2007, to
determine the fair value as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, of the Firm s retained
interests, other than MSRs, that are valued using modeling
techniques; it excludes securities that are valued using quoted
market prices. The table below also
outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in
assumptions used to determine fair value. For a discussion of residential MSRs, see Note 18 on
pages 187 188 of this Annual Report.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

(a) 
       
     PPR: principal payment rate; ABS: absolute prepayment speed; CPR: constant
prepayment rate. 

(b) 
       
     Excludes certain interests that are not valued using modeling
techniques. 

(c) 
       
     Includes Alt-A loans. 

(d) 
       
     Including the valuation assumptions used to determine the fair value
for a limited amount of retained interests resulted in a wider range
than those used for the
majority of the portfolio. Excluding these retained interests, the
range of assumptions used to value the prime/Alt A mortgage
retained interests would have been 0.0-29.4% for prepayment rates;
0.0-25.0% for loss assumptions; and 9.9%-21.4% for the discount rates. 

(e) 
       
     Expected losses for prime residential mortgage, student loans and certain wholesale securitizations are minimal and are incorporated into other assumptions. 

(f) 
       
     Including the loss assumptions used to determine the fair value for a
limited amount of retained interests resulted in a wider range than those used for the
majority of the portfolio. Excluding these retained interests, the range of loss assumption
used to value the subprime mortgage retained interests would have
been 0.2-43.5%. 

(g) 
       
     The valuation assumptions used to determine the fair value
for a limited amount of retained interests were higher than the
majority of the portfolio. Excluding these retained interests, the
range of assumptions used to value the commercial and other retained
interests would have been 0.0% to 22.0% for prepayment rates and
3.3%-30.4% for the discount rates. 

The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table
is hypothetical. Changes in fair value based upon a
10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally
cannot be extrapolated easily because the
relationship of the change in the assumptions to
the change in fair value may not be linear. Also,
in the table, the effect that a change in a
particular assumption may have on the fair value is
calculated without changing any other assumption.
In reality, changes in one factor may result in
changes in another, which might counteract or
magnify the sensitivities. The above sensitivities
also do not reflect the Firm s risk management
practices that may be undertaken to mitigate such
risks.

Table of Contents   

The table below includes information about delinquencies, net charge-offs and
components of reported and securitized financial assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007.

(a) 
       
     Includes Alt-A loans. 

(b) 
       
     Includes loans for prime mortgage and other (largely student loans) of $206
million and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2008, respectively, and $570 million and $3.4
billion at December 31, 2007, respectively. 

(c) 
       
     Purchased credit-impaired loans represent loans acquired in the Washington Mutual
acquisition that were considered credit-impaired under SOP 03-3, and include $6.4 billion
of loans that were nonperforming immediately prior to the acquisition. Under SOP 03-3,
these loans are considered to be performing loans as of the acquisition date; they accrete
interest income over the estimated life of the loan when cash flows are reasonably
estimable, even if the underlying loans are contractually past due. For additional
information, see Note 14 on pages 163 166 of this Annual Report. 

(d) 
       
     Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs were
$640.8 billion and $307.7 billion at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively. The $452.3 billion and
$179.8 billion of loans securitized at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively, excludes $152.4 billion and
$107.8 billion of securitized loans, respectively, in which the
Firm has no continuing involvement; $33.3 billion and
$18.6 billion of seller s interests in credit card master
trusts, respectively; and $2.8 billion and $1.5 billion of
cash amounts on deposit and escrow accounts. 

(e) 
       
     Represents both loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and loans that have been
securitized. 

(f) 
       
     Includes securitized loans that were previously recorded at fair value and
classified as trading assets. 

(g) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the policy for classifying subprime mortgage and home equity loans as
nonperforming was changed to conform to all other home lending
products. Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect this change. 

(h) 
       
     Excludes nonperforming assets related to (i) loans eligible for repurchase, as
well as loans repurchased from GNMA pools that are insured by U.S. government agencies, of
$3.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and (ii)
student loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S.
government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, of $437 million and
$417 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts for GNMA and
student loans are excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 

(i) 
       
     Includes nonperforming loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value of $32 million
and $50 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Subprime adjustable-rate mortgage loan modifications  
See the Glossary of Terms on page 220 of this
Annual Report for the Firm s definition of subprime
loans. Within the confines of the limited
decision-making abilities of a QSPE under SFAS 140,
the operating documents that govern existing
subprime securitizations generally authorize the
servicer to modify loans for which default is
reasonably foreseeable, provided that the
modification is in the best interests of the QSPE s
beneficial interest holders and would not result in
a REMIC violation.

In December 2007, the American Securitization Forum
( ASF ) issued the  Streamlined Foreclosure and
Loss Avoidance Framework for Securitized Subprime
Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans  (the  Framework ).
The Framework provides guidance for servicers to
streamline evaluation procedures for borrowers with
certain subprime adjustable rate mortgage ( ARM )
loans to more efficiently provide modifications of
such loans with terms that are more appropriate for
the individual needs of such borrowers. The
Framework applies to all first-lien subprime ARM
loans that have a fixed rate of interest for an
initial period of 36 months or less, are included
in securitized pools, were originated between
January 1, 2005, and July 31, 2007, and have an
initial interest rate reset date between January 1,
2008, and July 31, 2010 ( ASF Framework Loans ).

The Framework categorizes the population of ASF
Framework Loans into three segments: Segment 1
includes loans where the borrower is current and is
likely
to be able to refinance into any readily available
mortgage product; Segment 2 includes loans where
the borrower is current, is unlikely to be able to
refinance into any readily available mortgage
industry product and meets certain defined
criteria; and Segment 3 includes loans where the
borrower is not current, as defined, and does not
meet the criteria for Segments 1 or 2.

ASF Framework Loans in Segment 2 of the Framework
are eligible for fast-track modification under
which the interest rate will be kept at the
existing initial rate, generally for five years
following the interest rate reset date. The
Framework indicates that for Segment 2 loans,
JPMorgan Chase, as servicer, may presume that the
borrower will be unable to make payments pursuant
to the original terms of the borrower s loan after
the initial interest rate reset date. Thus, the
Firm may presume that a default on that loan by the
borrower is reasonably foreseeable unless the terms
of the loan are modified. JPMorgan Chase has
adopted the loss mitigation approaches under the
Framework for securitized subprime ARM loans that
meet the specific Segment 2 criteria and began
modifying Segment 2 loans during the first quarter
of 2008. The adoption of the Framework did not
affect the off-balance sheet accounting treatment
of JPMorgan Chase-sponsored QSPEs that hold Segment
2 subprime loans.

The total dollar amount of assets owned by
Firm-sponsored QSPEs that hold subprime adjustable
rate mortgage loans as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, was $30.8 billion and $20.0 billion,
respectively. Of these amounts, $12.7 billion and
$9.7 billion, respectively, are related to ASF
Framework Loans serviced by the Firm. Included
within the assets owned by Firm-sponsored QSPEs was
foreclosure-related real estate owned, for which
JPMorgan Chase is the servicer, in

the amount of $3.5 billion and $637 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
growth in real estate owned in 2008 is
attributable to the Washington Mutual transaction
and increased foreclosures resulting from current
housing market conditions. The following table
presents the principal amounts of ASF Framework
Loans, serviced by the Firm, that are owned by
Firm-sponsored QSPEs that fell within Segments 1,
2 and 3 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

The estimates of segment classification could
change substantially in the future as a result of
future changes in housing values, economic
conditions, borrower/investor behavior and other
factors.

The total principal amount of beneficial
interests issued by the Firm-sponsored
securitizations that hold ASF Framework Loans as
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, was as follows.

For those ASF Framework Loans serviced by the Firm
and owned by Firm-sponsored QSPEs, the Firm
modified principal amounts of $1.7 billion of
Segment 2 subprime mortgages during the year ended
December 31, 2008. There were no Segment 2 subprime
mortgages modified during the year ended December
31, 2007. For Segment 3 loans, the Firm has adopted
a loss mitigation approach, without employing the
fast-track modifications prescribed for Segment 2
subprime mortgages, that is intended to maximize
the recoveries of the securitization trust. The
loss mitigation approach chosen by JPMorgan Chase
is consistent with the applicable servicing
agreements and could include rate reductions,
principal forgiveness, forbearance and other
actions intended to minimize economic loss and
avoid foreclosure. The table below presents
selected information relating to the principal
amount of Segment 3 loans for the year ended
December 31, 2008, including those that have been modified,
subjected to other loss mitigation activities or have been prepaid by
the borrower.

The impact of loss mitigation efforts on the
fair value of the Firm s retained interests in ASF
Framework loans was not material at December 31,
2008.

Table of Contents   

Note 17   Variable interest entities 

Refer to Note 1 on page 122 of this Annual
Report for a further description of JPMorgan
Chase s policies regarding consolidation of
variable interest entities.

JPMorgan Chase s principal involvement with VIEs
occurs in the following business segments:

Investment Bank: Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in accessing the financial markets
in a cost-efficient manner. IB is involved with VIEs through multi-seller conduits and for
investor intermediation purposes, as discussed below. IB also securitizes loans through
QSPEs, to create asset-backed securities, as further discussed in Note 16 on pages
168 176 of this Annual Report. 

Asset Management ( AM ): Provides investment management services to a limited number
of the Firm s funds deemed VIEs. AM earns a fixed fee based upon assets managed; the fee varies with each fund s investment
objective and is competitively priced. For the limited number of funds that qualify as
VIEs, AM s relationships with such funds are not considered significant variable interests
under FIN 46(R). 

Treasury   Securities Services: Provides services to a number of VIEs that are
similar to those provided to non-VIEs. TSS earns market-based fees for the services it
provides. The relationships resulting from TSS  services are not considered to be
significant variable interests under FIN 46(R). 

Commercial Banking ( CB ): Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in accessing the
financial markets in a cost-efficient manner. This is often accomplished through the use
of products similar to those offered in IB. CB may assist in the structuring and/or
ongoing administration of these VIEs and may provide liquidity, letters of credit and/or
derivative instruments in support of the VIE. The relationships resulting from CB s
services are not considered to be significant variable interests under FIN 46(R). 

Corporate/Private Equity: Corporate utilizes VIEs to issue guaranteed capital debt
securities. See Note 23 on page 191 for further information. The Private Equity business,
also included in Corporate, may be involved with entities that could be deemed VIEs.
Private equity activities are accounted for in accordance with the AICPA Audit and
Accounting Guide  Investment Companies  (the  Guide ). In June 2007, the AICPA issued SOP
07-1, which provides guidance for determining whether an entity is within the scope of
the Guide, and therefore qualifies to use the Guide s specialized accounting principles
(referred to as  investment company accounting ). In May 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN
46(R)-7, which amends FIN 46(R) to permanently exempt entities within the scope of the
Guide from applying the provisions of FIN 46(R) to their investments. In February 2008,
the FASB agreed to an indefinite delay of the effective date of SOP 07-1 in order to
address implementation issues, which effectively delays FSP FIN 46(R)-7 as well for those
companies, such as the Firm, that have not adopted SOP 07-1. Had FIN 46(R) been applied to
VIEs subject to this deferral, the impact would have been immaterial to the Firm s
consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008. 

As noted above, IB is predominantly involved with
multi-seller conduits and VIEs associated with
investor intermediation activities. These
nonconsolidated VIEs that are sponsored by JPMorgan
Chase are discussed below. The Firm considers a
 sponsored  VIE to include any entity where: (1)
JPMorgan Chase is the principal beneficiary of the
structure; (2) the VIE is used by JPMorgan Chase to
securitize Firm assets; (3) the VIE issues
financial instruments associated with the JPMorgan
Chase brand name; or (4) the entity is a JPMorgan
Chase administered asset-backed commercial paper
( ABCP ) conduit.

Multi-seller conduits  
 Funding and liquidity  
The Firm is an active participant in the
asset-backed securities business, and it helps
customers meet their
financing needs by providing access to the
commercial paper markets through VIEs known as
multi-seller conduits. Multi-seller conduit
entities are separate bankruptcy-remote entities
that purchase interests in, and make loans secured
by, pools of receivables and other financial assets
pursuant to agreements with customers of the Firm.
The conduits fund their purchases and loans through
the issuance of highly rated commercial paper to
third-party investors. The primary source of
repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flow
from the pools of assets. In most instances, the
assets are structured with deal-specific credit
enhancements provided by the customers (i.e.,
sellers) to the conduits or other third parties.
Deal-specific credit enhancements are generally
structured to cover a multiple of historical losses
expected on the pool of assets, and are typically
in the form of overcollateralization provided by
the seller, but also may include any combination of
the following: recourse to the seller or
originator, cash collateral accounts, letters of
credit, excess spread, retention of subordinated
interests or third-party guarantees. The
deal-specific credit enhancements mitigate the
Firm s potential losses on its agreements with the
conduits.

JPMorgan Chase receives fees related to the
structuring of multi-seller conduit transactions
and compensation from the multi-seller conduits
for its role as administrative agent, liquidity
provider, and provider of program-wide credit
enhancement.

As a means of ensuring timely repayment of the
commercial paper, each asset pool financed by the
conduits has a minimum 100% deal-specific liquidity
facility associated with it. Deal-specific
liquidity facilities are the primary source of
liquidity support for the conduits. The
deal-specific liquidity facilities are typically in
the form of asset purchase agreements and generally
structured so the liquidity that will be provided
by the Firm as liquidity provider will be effected
by the Firm purchasing, or lending against, a pool
of nondefaulted, performing assets.

The conduit s administrative agent can require the
liquidity provider to perform under its asset
purchase agreement with the conduit at any time.
These agreements may cause the liquidity provider,
including the Firm, to purchase an asset from the
conduit at an amount above the asset s then current
fair value   in effect providing a guarantee of
the initial value of the reference asset as of the
date of the agreement. In limited circumstances,
the Firm may provide unconditional liquidity.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

The Firm also provides the multi-seller conduit
vehicles with program-wide liquidity facilities in
the form of uncommitted short-term revolving
facilities that can be accessed by the conduits to
handle funding increments
too small to be funded by commercial paper and in
the form of uncommitted liquidity facilities that
can be accessed by the conduits only in the event
of short-term disruptions in the commercial paper
market.

Because the majority of the deal-specific liquidity
facilities will only fund nondefaulted assets,
program-wide credit enhancement is required to
absorb losses on defaulted receivables in excess of
losses absorbed by any deal-specific credit
enhancement. Program-wide credit enhancement may be
provided by JPMorgan Chase in the form of standby
letters of credit or by third-party surety bond
providers. The amount of program-wide credit
enhancement required varies by conduit and ranges
between 5% and 10% of applicable commercial paper
outstanding.

The following table summarizes the Firm s
involvement with non-consolidated Firm-administered
multi-seller conduits. There were no consolidated
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits as of
December 31, 2008 or 2007.

(a) 
       
     The accounting for these agreements is further discussed in Note 33 on pages
206 210. The carrying value related to asset purchase agreements was $147 million at
December 31, 2008, of which $138 million represented the
remaining fair value of the guarantee under FIN 45. The Firm has
recognized this guarantee in other liabilities with an offsetting
entry recognized in other assets for the net present value of the
future premium receivable under the contracts. 

(b) 
       
     The Firm s maximum exposure to loss is limited to the amount of drawn commitments
(i.e., sellers  assets held by the multi-seller conduits for which the Firm provides
liquidity support) of $42.9 billion and $61.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, plus contractual but undrawn commitments of $14.0 billion and $27.7 billion
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Since the Firm provides credit enhancement
and liquidity to Firm-administered, multi-seller conduits, the
maximum exposure is not
adjusted to exclude exposure that would be absorbed by third- party liquidity providers. 

Assets funded by the multi-seller conduits  
JPMorgan Chase s administered multi-seller
conduits fund a variety of asset types for the
Firm s clients. Asset types primarily include
credit card receivables, auto loans, trade
receivables, student loans, commercial loans,
residential mortgages, capital commitments (e.g.,
loans to private equity, mezzanine and real estate
opportunity funds secured by capital commitments
of highly rated institutional investors), and
various other asset types. It is the Firm s
intention that the assets funded by its
administered multi-seller conduits be sourced only
from the Firm s clients and not originated by, or
transferred from, JPMorgan Chase.

The following table presents information on the commitments and assets held by JPMorgan Chase s
administered multi-seller conduits as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Summary of exposure to Firm-administered nonconsolidated multi-seller conduits 

Table of Contents   

(a) 
       
     The ratings scale is presented on an S P equivalent basis. 

(b) 
       
     Weighted average expected life for each asset type is based upon the remaining
term of each conduit transaction s committed liquidity plus either the expected weighted
average life of the assets should the committed liquidity expire without renewal or the
expected time to sell the underlying assets in the securitization market. 

The assets held by the multi-seller conduits
are structured so that if they were rated, the Firm
believes the majority of them would receive an  A 
rating or better by external rating agencies.
However, it is unusual for the assets held by the
conduits to be explicitly rated by an external
rating agency. Instead, the Firm s Credit Risk
group assigns each asset purchase liquidity
facility an internal risk-rating based upon its
assessment of the probability of default for the
transaction. The ratings provided in the above
table reflect the S P-equivalent ratings of the
internal rating grades assigned by the Firm.

The risk ratings are periodically reassessed as
information becomes available. As of December 31,
2008 and 2007, 90% and 93%, respectively, of the
assets in the conduits were risk-rated  A  or
better.

Commercial paper issued by the multi-seller conduits  
The weighted average life of commercial paper
issued by the multi-seller conduits at December 31,
2008 and 2007, was 27 days and 26 days,
respectively, and the average yield on the
commercial paper at December 31, 2008 and 2007, was
0.6% and 5.7%, respectively.

In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase
trades and invests in commercial paper, including
paper issued by the Firm-administered conduits. The
percentage of commercial paper purchased by the
Firm across all Firm-administered conduits during
the year ended December 31, 2008, ranged from less
than 1% to approximately 20% on any given day. The
largest daily amount of commercial paper
outstanding held by the Firm in any one
multi-seller conduit during the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007, was approximately $2.7
billion, or 23%, for 2008, and $2.7 billion, or
16%, for 2007, of the conduit s commercial
paper outstanding. On average, the Firm held
approximately 3% of daily multi-seller conduit
issued commercial paper outstanding during 2008.
Total multi-seller conduit issued commercial paper
held by the Firm at December 31, 2008 and 2007, was
$360 million and $131 million, respectively.

The Firm is not obligated under any agreement
(contractual or non-contractual) to purchase the
commercial paper issued by JPMorgan
Chase-administered conduits.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Consolidation analysis  
The multi-seller conduits administered by the Firm
were not consolidated at December 31, 2008 and
2007, because each conduit had issued expected loss
notes ( ELNs ), the holders of which are committed
to absorbing the majority of the expected loss of
each respective conduit.

Implied support  
The Firm did not have and continues not to have
any intent to protect any ELN holders from
potential losses on any of the conduits  holdings
and has no plans to remove any assets from any
conduit unless required to do so in its role as
administrator. Should such a transfer occur, the
Firm would allocate losses on such assets between
itself and the ELN holders in accordance with the
terms of the applicable ELN.

Expected loss modeling  
In determining the primary beneficiary of the
conduits the Firm uses a Monte Carlo based model
to estimate the expected losses of each of the
conduits and considers the relative rights and
obligations of each of the variable interest
holders. The Firm s expected loss modeling treats
all variable interests, other than the ELNs, as its
own to determine consolidation. The variability to
be considered in the modeling of expected losses is
based on the design of the entity. The Firm s
traditional multi-seller conduits are designed to
pass credit risk, not liquidity risk, to its
variable interest holders, as the assets are
intended to be held in the conduit for the longer
term.

Under FIN 46(R), the Firm is required to run the
Monte Carlo-based expected loss model each time a
reconsideration event occurs. In applying this
guidance to the conduits, the following events, are
considered to be reconsideration events, as they
could affect the determination of the primary
beneficiary of the conduits:

New deals, including the issuance of new or additional variable interests (credit
support, liquidity facilities, etc); 

Changes in usage, including the change in the level of outstanding variable
interests (credit support, liquidity facilities, etc); 

Modifications of asset purchase agreements; and 

Sales of interests held by the primary beneficiary. 

From an operational perspective, the Firm does not
run its Monte Carlo-based expected loss model every
time there is a reconsideration event due to the
frequency of their occurrence. Instead, the Firm
runs its expected loss model each quarter and
includes a growth assumption for each conduit to
ensure that a sufficient amount of ELNs exists for
each conduit at any point during the quarter.

As part of its normal quarterly modeling, the Firm
updates, when applicable, the inputs and
assumptions used in the expected loss model.
Specifically, risk ratings and loss given default
assumptions are continually updated. The total
amount of expected loss notes outstanding at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, were $136 million and
$130 million, respectively. Management has
concluded that the model assumptions used were
reflective of market participants  assumptions and
appropriately considered the probability of changes
to risk ratings and loss given defaults.

Qualitative considerations  
The multi-seller conduits are primarily designed to
provide an efficient means for clients to access
the commercial paper market. The Firm believes the
conduits effectively disperse risk among all
parties and that the preponderance of the economic
risk in the Firm s multi-seller conduits is not
held by JPMorgan Chase.

Consolidated sensitivity analysis on capital  
The table below shows the impact on the Firm s
reported assets, liabilities, Tier 1 capital ratio
and Tier 1 leverage ratio if the Firm were required
to consolidate all of the multi-seller conduits
that it administers at their current carrying
value.

(a) 
       
     The table shows the impact of consolidating the assets and liabilities of the
multi-seller conduits at their current carrying value; as such, there would be no income
statement or capital impact at the date of consolidation. If the Firm were required to
consolidate the assets and liabilities of the conduits at fair value, the Tier 1 capital
ratio would be approximately 10.8%. The fair value of the assets is primarily based upon pricing for
comparable transactions. The fair value of these assets could change significantly because
the pricing of conduit transactions is renegotiated with the client, generally, on an
annual basis and due to changes in current market conditions. 

(b) 
       
     Consolidation is assumed to occur on the first day of the quarter, at the
quarter-end levels, in order to provide a meaningful adjustment to average assets in the
denominator of the leverage ratio. 

The Firm could fund purchases of assets
from VIEs should it become necessary.

2007 activity  
In July 2007, a reverse repurchase agreement
collateralized by prime residential mortgages held
by a Firm-administered multi-seller conduit was put
to JPMorgan Chase under its deal-specific liquidity
facility. The asset was transferred to and recorded
by JPMorgan Chase at its par value based on the
fair value of the collateral that supported the
reverse repurchase agreement. During the fourth
quarter of 2007, additional information regarding
the value of the collateral, including performance
statistics, resulted in the determination by the
Firm that the fair value of the collateral was
impaired. Impairment losses were allocated to the
ELN holder (the party that absorbs the majority of
the expected loss from the conduit) in accordance
with the contractual provisions of the ELN note.

On October 29, 2007, certain structured CDO assets
originated in the second quarter of 2007 and backed
by subprime mortgages were transferred to the Firm
from two Firm-administered multi-seller conduits.
It became clear in October that commercial paper
investors and rating agencies were becoming
increasingly concerned about CDO assets backed by
subprime mortgage exposures. Because of these
concerns, and to ensure the continuing viability of
the two conduits as financing vehicles for clients
and as investment alternatives for commercial paper
investors, the Firm, in its role as administrator,
transferred the CDO assets out of the multi-seller
conduits. The structured CDO assets were
transferred to the Firm at

Table of Contents   

their par value of $1.4 billion. As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the CDO assets were
valued on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at $5
million and $291 million, respectively.

There were no other structured CDO assets backed
by subprime mortgages remaining in JPMorgan
Chase-administered multi-seller conduits as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007.

The Firm does not consider the October 2007
transfer of the structured CDO assets from the
multi-seller conduits to JPMorgan Chase to be an
indicator of JPMorgan Chase s intent to provide
implicit support to the ELN holders. This transfer
was a one-time, isolated event, limited to a
specific type of asset that is not typically funded
in the Firm s administered multi-seller conduits.
In addition, the Firm has no plans to permit
multi-seller conduits to purchase such assets in
the future.

Investor intermediation  
As a financial intermediary, the Firm creates
certain types of VIEs and also structures
transactions, typically derivative structures, with
these VIEs to meet investor needs. The Firm may
also provide liquidity and other support. The risks
inherent in the derivative instruments or liquidity
commitments are managed similarly to other credit,
market or liquidity risks to which the Firm is
exposed. The principal types of VIEs for which the
Firm is engaged in these structuring activities are
municipal bond vehicles, credit-linked note
vehicles, asset swap
vehicles and collateralized debt obligation
vehicles.

Municipal bond vehicles  
The Firm has created a series of secondary market
trusts that provide short-term investors with
qualifying tax-exempt investments, and that allow
investors in tax-exempt securities to finance their
investments at short-term tax-exempt rates. In a
typical transaction, the vehicle purchases
fixed-rate longer-term highly rated municipal bonds
and funds the purchase by issuing two types of
securities: (1) putable floating-rate certificates
and (2) inverse floating-rate residual interests
( residual interests ). The maturity of each of the
putable floating-rate certificates and the residual
interests is equal to the life of the vehicle,
while the maturity of the underlying municipal
bonds is longer. Holders of the putable
floating-rate certificates may  put,  or tender,
the certificates if the remarketing agent cannot
successfully remarket the floating-rate
certificates to another investor. A liquidity
facility conditionally obligates the liquidity
provider to fund the purchase of the tendered
floating-rate certificates. Upon termination of the
vehicle, if the proceeds from the sale of the
underlying municipal bonds are not sufficient to
repay the liquidity facility, the liquidity
provider has recourse either to excess
collateralization in the vehicle or the residual
interest holders for reimbursement.

The third-party holders of the residual interests
in these vehicles could experience losses if the
face amount of the putable floating-rate
certificates exceeds the market value of the
municipal bonds upon termination of the vehicle.
Certain vehicles require a smaller initial
investment by the residual interest holders and
thus do not result in excess collateralization. For
these vehicles there exists a reimbursement
obligation which requires the residual interest
holders to post, during the life of the vehicle,
additional collateral to the vehicle on a daily
basis as the market value of the municipal bonds
declines.

JPMorgan Chase often serves as the sole liquidity
provider and remarketing agent of the putable
floating-rate certificates. As the liquidity
provider, the Firm has an obligation to fund the
purchase of the putable floating-rate certificates;
this obligation is triggered by the failure to
remarket the putable floating-rate certificates.
The liquidity provider s obligation to perform is
conditional and is limited by certain termination
events, which include bankruptcy or failure to pay
by the municipal bond issuer or credit enhancement
provider, and the immediate downgrade of the
municipal bond to below investment grade. A
downgrade of the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. s
short-term rating does not affect the Firm s
obligation under the liquidity facility. However,
in the event of a downgrade in the Firm s credit
ratings, holders of the putable floating-rate
instruments supported by those liquidity facility
commitments might choose to sell their instruments,
which could increase the likelihood that the
liquidity commitments could be drawn. In vehicles
in which third-party investors own the residual
interests, in addition to the termination events,
the Firm s exposure as liquidity provider is
further limited by the high credit
quality of the underlying municipal bonds, and the
excess collateralization in the vehicle or the
reimbursement agreements with the residual interest
holders. In the fourth quarter of 2008, a drawdown
occurred on one liquidity facility as a result of a
failure to remarket putable floating-rate
certificates. The Firm was required to purchase $19 million of putable floating-rate
certificates. Subsequently, the municipal bond
vehicle was terminated and the proceeds from the
sales of the municipal bonds, together with the
collateral posted by the residual interest holder,
were sufficient to repay the putable floating-rate
certificates. In 2007, the Firm did not experience
a drawdown on the liquidity facilities.

As remarketing agent, the Firm may hold the putable
floating-rate certificates. At December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively, the Firm held $293 million
and $617 million of these certificates on its
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The largest amount
held by the Firm at any time during 2008 and 2007
was $2.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, or
11% and 5%, respectively, of the municipal bond
vehicles  outstanding putable floating-rate
certificates. The Firm did not have and continues
not to have any intent to protect any residual
interest holder from potential losses on any of the
municipal bond holdings.

The long-term credit ratings of the putable
floating-rate certificates are directly related to
the credit ratings of the underlying municipal
bonds, and to the credit rating of any insurer of
the underlying municipal bond. A downgrade of a
bond insurer would result in a downgrade of the
insured municipal bonds, which would affect the
rating of the putable floating-rate certificates.
This could cause demand for these certificates by
investors to decline or disappear, as putable
floating-rate certificate holders typically require
an  AA-  bond rating. At December 31, 2008 and
2007, 97% and 99%, respectively, of the municipal
bonds held by vehicles to which the Firm served as
liquidity provider were rated  AA-  or better,
based upon either the rating of the underlying
municipal bond itself, or the rating including any
credit enhancement. At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
$2.6 billion and $12.0 billion, respectively, of
the bonds were

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

insured by monoline bond insurers. In
addition, the municipal bond vehicles did not
experience any bankruptcy or downgrade
termination events during 2008 and 2007.

The Firm sometimes invests in the residual
interests of municipal bond vehicles. For VIEs in
which the Firm owns the residual interests, the
Firm consolidates the VIEs.

The likelihood that the Firm would have to
consolidate VIEs where the Firm does not own the
residual interests and that are currently
off-balance sheet is remote.

Exposure to nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs at December 31, 2008 and 2007, including the
ratings profile of the VIEs  assets, were as follows.

(a) 
       
     Excluded $6.0 billion and $6.9 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which
were consolidated due to the Firm owning the residual interests. 

(b) 
       
     Certain of the municipal bond vehicles are structured to meet the definition of a QSPE (as
discussed in Note 1 on page 122 of this Annual Report); accordingly, the assets and liabilities of
QSPEs are not reflected in the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets (except for retained interests
that are reported at fair value). Excluded nonconsolidated amounts of $603 million and $7.1 billion
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to QSPE municipal bond vehicles in which the
Firm owned the residual interests. 

(c) 
       
     The decline in balances at December 31, 2008, compared with December 31, 2007, was due to
third-party residual interest holders exercising their right to terminate the municipal bond
vehicles. The proceeds from the sales of municipal bonds were sufficient to repay the putable
floating-rate certificates, and the Firm did not incur losses as a result of these terminations. 

(d) 
       
     The Firm may serve as credit enhancement provider in municipal bond vehicles in which it
serves as liquidity provider. The Firm provided insurance on underlying municipal bonds in the form
of letters of credit of $10 million and $103 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(e) 
       
     Represents the excess (deficit) of municipal bond asset fair value available to repay the
liquidity facilities, if drawn. 

(f) 
       
     The ratings scale is based upon the Firm s internal risk ratings and presented on an S P
equivalent basis. 

Credit-linked note vehicles 

The Firm structures transactions with credit-linked
note ( CLN ) vehicles in which the VIE purchases
highly rated assets, such as asset-backed
securities, and enters into a credit derivative
contract with the Firm to obtain exposure to a
referenced credit which the VIE otherwise does not
hold. The VIE then issues CLNs with maturities
predominantly ranging from one to ten years in
order to transfer the risk of the referenced credit
to the VIE s investors. Clients and investors often
prefer using a CLN vehicle since the CLNs issued by
the VIE generally carry a higher credit rating than
such notes would if issued directly by JPMorgan
Chase. The Firm s exposure to the CLN vehicles is
generally limited to its rights and obligations
under the credit derivative contract with the VIE,
as the Firm does not provide any additional
contractual financial support to the VIE. In
addition, the Firm has not historically provided
any financial support to the CLN vehicles over and
above its contractual obligations. Accordingly, the
Firm typically does

not consolidate the CLN vehicles. As a derivative
counterparty in a credit-linked note structure, the
Firm has a senior claim on the collateral of the
VIE and reports such derivatives on its balance
sheet at fair value. The collateral purchased by
such VIEs is largely investment-grade, with a
majority being rated  AAA . The Firm divides its
credit-linked note structures broadly into two
types: static and managed.

In a static credit-linked note structure, the CLNs
and associated credit derivative contract either
reference a single credit (e.g., a multinational
corporation) or all or part of a fixed portfolio of
credits. The Firm generally buys protection from
the VIE under the credit derivative. As a net buyer
of credit protection, the Firm pays a premium to
the VIE in return for the receipt of a payment (up
to the notional amount of the derivative) if one or
more of the reference credits defaults, or if the
losses resulting from the default of the reference
credits exceed specified levels.

Table of Contents   

In a managed credit-linked note structure, the CLNs
and associated credit derivative generally
reference all or part of an actively managed
portfolio of credits. An agreement exists between a
portfolio manager and the VIE that gives the
portfolio manager the ability to substitute each
referenced credit in the portfolio for an
alternative credit. By participating in a structure
where a portfolio manager has the ability to
substitute credits within pre-agreed terms, the
investors who own the CLNs seek to reduce the risk
that any single credit in the portfolio will

default. The Firm does not act as portfolio
manager; its involvement with the VIE is generally
limited to being a derivative counterparty. As a
net buyer of credit protection, the Firm pays a
premium to the VIE in return for the receipt of a
payment (up to the notional of the derivative) if
one or more of the credits within the portfolio
defaults, or if the losses resulting from the
default of reference credits exceed specified
levels.

Exposure to nonconsolidated credit-linked note VIEs at December 31, 2008 and 2007, was as follows.

(a) 
       
     Excluded fair value of collateral of $2.1 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively, which was consolidated as the Firm, in its role as secondary market maker,
held a majority of the issued CLNs of certain vehicles. 

(b) 
       
     Includes synthetic collateralized debt obligation vehicles, which have similar risk
characteristics to managed credit-linked note vehicles. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, trading
assets included $7 million and $291 million, respectively, of transactions with subprime
collateral. 

(c) 
       
     Trading assets principally comprise notes issued by VIEs, which from time to time are held as
part of the termination of a deal or to support limited market-making. 

(d) 
       
     On-balance sheet exposure that includes derivative receivables and trading assets. 

(e) 
       
     The Firm s maximum exposure arises through the derivatives executed with the VIEs; the
exposure varies over time with changes in the fair value of the derivatives. The Firm relies upon
the collateral held by the VIEs to pay any amounts due under the derivatives; the vehicles are
structured at inception so that the par value of the collateral is expected to be sufficient to pay
amounts due under the derivative contracts. 

Asset Swap Vehicles 

The Firm also structures and executes transactions
with asset swap vehicles on behalf of investors. In
such transactions, the VIE purchases a specific
asset or assets and then enters into a derivative
with the Firm in order to tailor the interest rate
or currency risk, or both, of the assets according
to investors  requirements. Generally, the assets
are held by the VIE to maturity, and the tenor of
the derivatives would match the maturity of the
assets. Investors typically invest in the notes
issued by such VIEs in order to obtain exposure to
the credit risk of the specific assets as well as
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk
that is tailored to their specific needs; for example, an interest
rate derivative may add additional interest rate exposure
into the VIE in order to increase the return on the
issued notes; or to convert an interest bearing
asset into a zero-coupon bond.

The Firm s exposure to the asset swap vehicles is
generally limited to its rights and obligations
under the interest rate and/or foreign exchange
derivative contracts, as the Firm does not provide
any contractual financial support to the VIE. In
addition, the Firm historically has not provided
any financial support to the asset swap vehicles
over and above its contractual obligations.
Accordingly, the Firm typically does not
consolidate the asset swap vehicles. As a
derivative counterparty, the Firm has a senior
claim on the collateral of the VIE and reports such
derivatives on its balance sheet at fair value.
Substantially all of the assets purchased by such
VIEs are investment-grade.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Exposure to nonconsolidated asset swap VIEs at December 31, 2008 and 2007, was as follows.

2008  

2007 

Par value of 

Par value of 

December 31, 
       
     Derivative 

Trading 

Total 

collateral held 

Derivative 

Trading 

Total 

collateral held 

(in billions) 
       
     receivables (payables) 

assets (a)  

exposure (b)  

by VIEs (c)  

receivables (payables) 

assets (a)  

exposure (b)  

by VIEs (c)  

Nonconsolidated

Asset swap vehicles (d) 

$  
      (0.2  
      )  
       
      $  

$  
      (0.2  
      )  
       
      $  
      7.3  

$ 
     0.2 

$ 

$ 
     0.2 

$ 
     5.6 

(a) 
       
     Trading assets principally comprise notes issued by VIEs, which from time to time are held
as part of the termination of a deal or to support limited market-making. 

(b) 
       
     On-balance sheet exposure that includes derivative receivables (payables) and trading assets. 

(c) 
       
     The Firm s maximum exposure arises through the derivatives executed with the VIEs; the
exposure varies over time with changes in the fair value of the derivatives. The Firm relies upon
the collateral held by the VIEs to pay any amounts due under the derivatives; the vehicles are
structured at inception so that the par value of the collateral is expected to be sufficient to pay
amounts due under the derivative contracts. 

(d) 
       
     Excluded fair value of collateral of $1.0 billion and $976 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively, which was consolidated as the Firm, in its role as secondary market maker,
held a majority of the issued notes of certain vehicles. 

Collateralized Debt Obligations vehicles 

A CDO typically refers to a security that is
collateralized by a pool of bonds, loans, equity,
derivatives or other assets. The Firm s involvement
with a particular CDO vehicle may take one or more
of the following forms: arranger, warehouse funding
provider, placement agent or underwriter, secondary
market-maker for securities issued, or derivative
counterparty.

Prior to the formal establishment of a CDO vehicle,
there is a warehousing period where a VIE may be
used to accumulate the assets which will be
subsequently securitized and serve as the
collateral for the securities to be issued to
investors. During this warehousing period, the Firm
may provide all or a portion of the financing to
the VIE, for which the Firm earns interest on the
amounts it finances. A third-party asset manager
that will serve as the manager for the CDO vehicle
uses the warehouse funding provided by the Firm to
purchase the financial assets. The funding
commitments generally are one year in duration. In
the event that the securitization of assets does
not occur within the committed financing period,
the warehoused assets are generally liquidated.

Because of the varied levels of support provided
by the Firm during the warehousing period, which
typically averages six to nine months, each CDO
warehouse VIE is assessed in accordance with FIN
46(R) to determine whether the Firm is considered
the primary

beneficiary that should consolidate the VIE. In
general, the Firm would consolidate the warehouse
VIE unless another third party, typically the asset
manager, provides significant protection for
potential declines in the value of the assets held
by the VIE. In those cases, the third party that
provides the protection to the warehouse VIE would
consolidate the VIE.

Once the portfolio of warehoused assets is large
enough, the VIE will issue securities where market
conditions permit. The proceeds from the issuance
of securities will be used to repay the warehouse
financing obtained from the Firm and other
counterparties. In connection with the
establishment of the CDO vehicle, the Firm
typically
earns a fee for arranging the CDO vehicle and
distributing the securities (as placement agent
and/or underwriter) and does not typically own any
equity tranches issued. Once the CDO vehicle closes
and issues securities, the Firm has no further
obligation to provide further support to the
vehicle. At the time of closing, the Firm may hold
unsold securities that the Firm was not able to
place with third-party investors. The amount of
unsold securities at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
was insignificant. In addition, the Firm may on
occasion hold some of the CDO vehicles  securities, including
equity interests,
as a secondary market-maker or as a principal
investor, or it may be a derivative counterparty to
the vehicles. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, these
amounts were not significant. Exposures to CDO
warehouse VIEs at December 31, 2008 and 2007, were
as follows.

Table of Contents   

(a) 
       
     Typically contingent upon certain asset-quality conditions being met by asset managers. 

(b) 
       
     The aggregate of the fair value of loan exposure and any unfunded, contractually committed
financing. 

(c) 
       
     The ratings scale is based upon JPMorgan Chase s internal risk ratings and presented on an S P
equivalent basis. 

VIEs sponsored by third parties 

Investment in a third-party credit card securitization trust 

The Firm holds a note in a third-party-sponsored
VIE, which is a credit card securitization trust
(the  Trust ), that owns credit card receivables
issued by a national retailer. The note is
structured so that the principal amount can float
up to 47% of the principal amount of the
receivables held by the Trust not to exceed $4.2
billion. The Firm is not the primary beneficiary of
the
Trust and accounts for its investment as an AFS
 security, which is recorded at fair
value. At December 31, 2008, the amortized cost of
the note was $3.6 billion and the fair value was
$2.6 billion. For more information on accounting
for AFS securities, see Note 12 on pages 158 162
of this Annual Report.

VIE used in FRBNY transaction 

In conjunction with the Bear Stearns merger, in
June 2008, the FRBNY took control, through an LLC
formed for this purpose, of a portfolio of $30.0
billion in assets, based upon the value of the
portfolio as of March 14, 2008. The assets of the
LLC were funded by a

$28.85 billion term loan from the FRBNY, and a
$1.15 billion subordinated loan from JPMorgan
Chase. The JPMorgan Chase loan is subordinated to
the FRBNY loan and will bear the first $1.15
billion of any losses of the portfolio. Any
remaining assets in the portfolio after repayment
of the FRBNY loan, the JPMorgan Chase loan and the
expense of the LLC, will be for the account of the
FRBNY.

Other VIEs sponsored by third parties 

The Firm enters into transactions with VIEs
structured by other parties. These transactions
include, for example, acting as a derivative
counterparty, liquidity provider, investor,
underwriter, placement agent, trustee or
custodian. These transactions are conducted at
arm s length, and individual credit decisions are
based upon the analysis of the specific VIE,
taking into consideration the quality of the
underlying assets. Where these activities do not
cause JPMorgan Chase to absorb a majority of the
expected losses of the VIEs or to receive a
majority of the residual returns of the VIEs,
JPMorgan Chase records and reports these positions
on its Consolidated Balance Sheets similar to the
way it would record and report positions from any
other third-party transaction. These transactions
are not considered significant for disclosure
purposes under FIN 46(R).

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Consolidated VIE assets and liabilities  
The following table presents information on assets, liabilities and commitments related to VIEs
that are consolidated by the Firm.

(a) 
       
     Excluded from total assets was $1.9 billion of unfunded commitments at December 31, 2007.
There were no unfunded commitments at December 31, 2008. 

(b) 
       
     Included assets classified as resale agreements and other assets within the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. 

(c) 
       
     Assets of each consolidated VIE included in the program types above are generally used to
satisfy the liabilities to third parties. The difference between total assets and total liabilities
recognized for consolidated VIEs represents the Firm s interest in the consolidated VIEs for each
program type. 

(d) 
       
     The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs are classified
in the line item titled,  Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The holders of these beneficial interests do not have recourse
to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. Included in beneficial interests in VIE assets are
long-term beneficial interests of $5.0 billion and $7.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. See Note 23 on page 191 of this Annual Report for the maturity profile of FIN 46
long-term beneficial interests. 

(e) 
       
     Included liabilities classified as other borrowed funds, long-term debt and other liabilities
in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

Note 18
  Goodwill and other intangible assets 

Goodwill is not amortized. Instead, it is
tested for impairment in accordance with SFAS 142
at the reporting-unit segment, which is generally
one level below the six major reportable business
segments (as described in Note 37 on pages 214 215
of this Annual Report); plus Private Equity (which
is included in Corporate). Goodwill is tested
annually (during the fourth quarter) or more often
if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes
in the business climate, indicate there may be
impairment. Management applies significant judgment
when determining the fair value of its reporting
units.
Imprecision in estimating the future earnings
potential of the Firm s reporting units can affect
their estimated fair value. In addition, if the
current period of weak economic market conditions
persists, then this could adversely impact the
estimates management used to determine the fair
value of its reporting units. Intangible assets
determined

to have indefinite lives are not amortized
but are
tested for impairment at least annually, or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the asset might be impaired. The
impairment test compares the fair value of the
indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying
amount. Other acquired intangible assets determined
to have finite lives, such as core deposits and
credit card relationships, are amortized over their
estimated useful lives in a manner that best
reflects the economic benefits of the intangible
asset; impairment testing is performed periodically
on these amortizing intangible assets.

Table of Contents   

Goodwill and other intangible assets consist of the following.

Goodwill  
The $2.8 billion increase in goodwill from the
prior year primarily resulted from the dissolution
of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture, the
merger with Bear Stearns, the purchase of an
additional equity interest in Highbridge and the
tax-related purchase accounting adjustments
associated with the Bank One merger, which
increased goodwill attributed to IB. The
decrease in goodwill attributed to TSS
predominantly resulted from the sale of a
previously consolidated subsidiary. For additional
information see Note 2 on pages 123 128 of this
Annual Report.

Goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2008, or
2007, nor was any goodwill written off due to
impairment during 2008 and 2007.

Goodwill attributed to the business segments was as follows.

Mortgage servicing rights  
JPMorgan Chase recognizes as intangible assets
mortgage servicing rights, which represent the
right to
perform specified mortgage servicing activities
(predominantly with respect to residential
mortgages) for others. MSRs are either purchased
from third parties or retained upon sale or
securitization of mortgage loans. Servicing
activities include collecting principal, interest,
and escrow payments from borrowers; making tax and
insurance payments on behalf of borrowers;
monitoring delinquencies and executing foreclosure
proceedings; and accounting for and remitting
principal and interest payments to the investors of
the mortgage-backed securities.

As
permitted by SFAS 156, the Firm elected to fair value MSRs as
one class of servicing assets. The Firm defined MSRs as one class
based on the availability of market inputs to measure MSR fair value
and its treatment of MSRs as one aggregate pool for risk management
purposes.

The Firm initially capitalizes MSRs based on the
estimated fair value at the time of initial
recognition. The Firm estimates the fair value of
MSRs for initial capitalization and ongoing
valuation using an option-adjusted spread model,
which projects MSR cash flows over multiple
interest rate scenarios in conjunction with the
Firm s proprietary prepayment model and then
discounts these cash flows at risk-adjusted rates.
The model considers portfolio characteristics,
contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment
assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other
ancillary revenue and costs to service, and other
economic factors. The Firm reassesses and
periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and
assumptions used in the OAS model to reflect market
conditions and assumptions that a market
participant would consider in valuing the MSR
asset. During 2007 and 2008, the Firm continued to
refine its proprietary payment model based upon a
number of market-related factors, including a
downward trend in home prices, general tightening
of credit underwriting standards and the associated
impact on refinancing activity. The Firm compares
fair value estimates and assumptions to observable
market data where available and to recent market
activity and actual portfolio experience.

The fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in
interest rates, including their effect on
prepayment speeds. JPMorgan Chase uses or has used
combinations of derivatives and trading instruments
to manage changes in the fair value of MSRs. The
intent is to offset any changes in the fair value
of MSRs with changes in the fair value of the
related risk management instruments. MSRs decrease
in value when interest rates decline. Conversely,
securities (such as mortgage-backed securities),
principal-only certificates and certain derivatives
(when the Firm receives fixed-rate interest
payments) increase in value when interest rates
decline.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

The following table summarizes MSR activity
for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006.

(a) 
       
     Represents MSR asset fair value adjustments due to changes in inputs, such as
interest rates and volatility, as well as updates to assumptions used in the valuation
model. This caption also represents total realized and unrealized gains (losses) included
in net income per the SFAS 157 disclosure for fair value measurement using significant
unobservable inputs (level 3). 

(b) 
       
     Includes changes in the MSR value due to modeled servicing portfolio runoff (or
time decay). This caption represents the impact of cash settlements per the SFAS
157 disclosure for fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs (level 3). 

(c) 
       
     Includes MSRs acquired as a result of the Washington Mutual
transaction (of which, $59
million related to commercial real estate) and the Bear Stearns merger. For further
discussion, see Note 2 on pages 123 128 of this Annual Report. 

(d) 
       
     Includes $4 million related to commercial real estate. 

The table below outlines the key economic
assumptions used to determine the fair value of the
Firm s MSRs at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively; and it outlines the sensitivities of
those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse
changes in those assumptions.

CPR: 
       
     Constant prepayment rate. 

The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table
is hypothetical and should be used with caution.
Changes in fair value based upon a 10% and 20%
variation in assumptions generally cannot be easily
extrapolated because the relationship of the change
in the assumptions to the change in fair value may
not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect that
a change in a particular assumption may have on the
fair value is calculated without changing any other
assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may
result in changes in another, which might magnify
or counteract the sensitivities.

Purchased credit card relationships and
all other intangible assets  
During 2008, purchased credit card relationships,
other credit card-related intangibles and core
deposit intangibles decreased $727 million,
primarily as a result of amortization expense,
partially offset by an increase in intangibles
recognized related to the dissolution of the Chase
Paymentech Solutions joint venture. Other
intangibles (net of amortization) increased $209
million primarily as a result of the purchase of an
additional equity interest in Highbridge as well as
the acquisition of an institutional global custody
portfolio.

Except for $517 million of indefinite-lived
intangibles related to asset management advisory
contracts, which are not amortized but are tested
for impairment at least annually, the remainder of
the Firm s other acquired intangible assets are
subject to amortization.

Table of Contents   

The components of credit card relationships, core deposits and other intangible assets were as
follows.

(a) 
       
     Includes amortization expense related to servicing assets on securitized
automobile loans, which is recorded in lending   deposit-related fees, of $5 million and
$9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Amortization expense  
The following table presents amortization expense related to credit card relationships, core
deposits and all other intangible assets.

(a) 
       
     Amortization expense related to the aforementioned selected
corporate trust businesses were reported in income from discontinued
operations for 2006. 

Future amortization expense  
The following table presents estimated future amortization expense related to credit card
relationships, core deposits and all other intangible assets at December 31, 2008.

Note 19
  Premises and equipment 

Premises and equipment, including leasehold
improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. JPMorgan Chase
computes depreciation using the straight-line
method over the estimated useful life of an asset.
For leasehold improvements, the Firm uses the
straight-line method computed over the lesser of
the remaining term of the leased facility or the
estimated useful life of the leased asset. JPMorgan
Chase has recorded

immaterial asset retirement obligations related to
asbestos remediation under SFAS 143 and FIN 47 in
those cases where it has sufficient information to
estimate the obligations  fair value.

JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated
with the acquisition or development of internal-use
software under SOP 98-1. Once the software is ready
for its intended use, these costs are amortized on
a straight-line basis over the software s expected
useful life and reviewed for impairment on an
ongoing basis.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Note
20   Deposits 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing deposits
were as follows.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, time deposits in
denominations of $100,000 or more were as follows.

At December 31, 2008, the maturities of
time deposits were as follows.

On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 was signed into law. The
Act increased FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000
to $250,000 per depositor through December 31,
2009. In addition, on November 21, 2008, the FDIC
released the Final Rule for the FDIC Temporary
Liquidity Guarantee Program ( TLG Program ), which
provides unlimited deposit insurance through
December 31, 2009, for noninterest-bearing
transaction deposit accounts at FDIC-insured
participating institutions. The Firm elected to
continue to participate in the TLG Program and, as
a result, will be required to pay additional
insurance premiums to the FDIC in an amount equal
to an
annualized 10-basis points on balances in
noninterest-bearing transaction accounts that
exceed the $250,000 FDIC deposit insurance limits,
as determined on a quarterly basis.

Note
21   Other borrowed funds 

The following table details the components of other borrowed funds.

(a) 
       
     Maturities of advances from the Federal Home Loan Banks were $47.4 billion, $18.5
billion, $2.6 billion, and $714 million in each of the 12-month periods ending December
31, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2013, respectively, and $1.0 billion maturing after December 31,
2013. Maturities for the 12-month period ending December 31, 2012 were not material. 

(b) 
       
     On September 19, 2008, the Federal Reserve Board established a temporary lending
facility, the AML Facility, to provide liquidity to eligible U.S. money market mutual
funds ( MMMFs ). Under the AML Facility, banking organizations must use the loan proceeds
to finance their purchases of eligible high-quality asset-backed commercial paper ( ABCP )
investments from MMMFs, which are pledged to secure nonrecourse advances from the Federal
Reserve Bank of Boston ( FRBB ). Participating banking organizations do not bear any
credit or market risk related to the ABCP investments they hold under this facility;
therefore, the ABCP investments held are not assessed any regulatory capital. The AML
Facility will be in effect until October 30, 2009. The nonrecourse advances from the FRBB
were elected under the fair value option and recorded in other borrowed funds; the
corresponding ABCP investments were also elected under the fair value option and recorded
in other assets. 

(c) 
       
     Includes $30.0 billion of advances from the Federal Reserve under the Federal
Reserve s Term Auction Facility ( TAF ), pursuant to which the Federal Reserve auctions
term funds to depository institutions that are eligible to borrow under the primary credit
program. The TAF allows all eligible depository institutions to place a bid for an advance
from its local Federal Reserve Bank at an interest rate set by an auction. All advances
are required to be fully collateralized. The TAF is designed to improve liquidity by
making it easier for sound institutions to borrow when the markets are not operating
efficiently. The TAF does not have a fixed expiration date. 

Note
22   Accounts payable and other liabilities 

The following table details the components of
accounts payable and other liabilities at each of
the dates indicated.

(a) 
       
     Includes payables to customers, brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, and
securities fails. 

Table of Contents   

Note 23   Long-term debt 

JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies, although predominantly
U.S. dollars, with both fixed and variable interest rates. The following table is a summary of
long-term debt carrying values (including unamortized original issue discount, SFAS 133 valuation
adjustments and fair value adjustments, where applicable) by contractual maturity as of December
31, 2008.

(a) 
       
     Included are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments. Embedded derivatives,
separated from hybrid securities in accordance with SFAS 133, are reported at fair value
and shown net with the host contract on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in fair
value of separated derivatives are recorded in principal transactions revenue. Hybrid
securities which the Firm has elected to measure at fair value are classified in the line
item of the host contract on the Consolidated Balance Sheets; changes in fair value are
recorded in principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

(b) 
       
     The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year-end,
including non U.S. dollar fixed- and variable-rate issuances, which excludes the effects of
the associated derivative instruments used in SFAS 133 hedge accounting relationships, if
applicable. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the Firm s exposure to the
contractual interest rates disclosed in the table above. Including the effects of the SFAS
133 hedge accounting derivatives, the range of modified rates in effect at December 31,
2008, for total long-term debt was 0.18% to 14.21%, versus the contractual range of 0.03%
to 14.21% presented in the table above. The interest rate ranges shown exclude structured
notes accounted for at fair value under SFAS 155 or SFAS 159. 

(c) 
       
     Included $7.8 billion principal amount of U.S. dollar-denominated floating-rate
mortgage bonds issued to an unaffiliated statutory trust, which in turn issued  6.0
billion in covered bonds secured by mortgage loans at December 31, 2008. 

(d) 
       
     Included $58.2 billion and $70.5 billion of outstanding structured notes accounted
for at fair value at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(e) 
       
     Included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEs. Also included $1.7 billion and $3.0 billion of outstanding structured
notes accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(f) 
       
     Included $14.1 billion as of December 31, 2008, guaranteed under the TLG Program
whereby newly issued senior, unsecured debt is guaranteed by the FDIC, which is discussed
below. 

(g) 
       
     Included $6.9 billion as of December 31, 2008, guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLG
Program, which is discussed below. 

(h) 
       
     At December 31, 2008, long-term debt aggregating $7.4 billion was redeemable at the
option of JPMorgan Chase, in whole or in part, prior to maturity, based upon the terms
specified in the respective notes. 

(i) 
       
     The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each of the five years
subsequent to 2008 is $36.0 billion in 2009, $38.5 billion in 2010, $39.7 billion in 2011,
$32.7 billion in 2012 and $18.6 billion in 2013. 

(j) 
       
     Included $3.4 billion and $4.6 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December
31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The aggregate principal amount of these notes at their
respective maturities was $7.1 billion and $7.7 billion, respectively. 

The weighted-average contractual interest rate
for total long-term debt was 4.06% and 5.20% as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In order
to modify
exposure to interest rate and currency exchange
rate movements, JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative
instruments, primarily interest rate and
cross-currency interest rate swaps, in conjunction
with some of its debt issues. The use of these
instruments modifies the Firm s interest expense on
the associated debt. The modified weighted-average
interest rate for total long-term debt, including
the effects of related derivative instruments, was
3.53% and 5.13% as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

JPMorgan Chase has elected to continue to
participate in the TLG Program, which is available
to, among others, all U.S. depository institutions
insured by the FDIC and all U.S. bank holding
companies, unless they have opted out of the TLG
Program or the FDIC has terminated their
participation. Under the TLG Program, the FDIC
guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of
JPMorgan Chase through the earlier of maturity and June 30, 2012, and in return for the guarantees,
the FDIC is paid a fee based on the amount and
maturity of the debt. Under the TLG Program, the
FDIC will pay the unpaid principal and interest on
an FDIC-guaranteed

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

debt instrument upon the uncured failure of
the participating entity to make a timely payment
of principal or interest in accordance with the
terms of the instrument. The guarantee of new obligations under the TLG Program is
scheduled to expire in October 2009.

JPMorgan Chase   Co. (Parent Company) has
guaranteed certain debt of its subsidiaries,
including both long-term debt and structured notes
sold as part of the Firm s market-making
activities. These guarantees rank on a parity with
all of the Firm s other unsecured and
unsubordinated indebtedness. Guaranteed liabilities
totaled $4.8 billion and $4.7 billion at December
31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For additional
information, see Note 2 on pages 123 128 of this
Annual Report.

Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures
held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt
securities 

At December 31, 2008, the Firm had established 24
wholly-owned Delaware statutory business trusts
( issuer trusts ) that had issued guaranteed
capital debt securities.

The junior subordinated deferrable interest
debentures issued by the Firm to the issuer trusts,
totaling $18.6 billion and $15.1 billion at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were
reflected in the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets
in the liabilities section under the caption
 Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures
held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt
securities  (i.e., trust preferred capital debt
securities). The Firm also records the common
capital securities issued by the issuer trusts in
other assets in its Consolidated Balance Sheets at
December 31, 2008 and 2007.

The debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the
Firm, less the common capital securities of the
issuer trusts, qualify as Tier 1 capital. The
following is a summary of the outstanding trust
preferred capital debt securities, including
unamortized original issue discount, issued by each
trust, and the junior subordinated deferrable
interest debenture issued to each trust as of
December 31, 2008.

(a) 
       
     Represents the amount of capital securities issued to the public by each trust,
including unamortized original issue discount. 

(b) 
       
     Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures issued to each trust,
including unamortized original issue discount. The principal amount of debentures issued
to the trusts includes the impact of hedging and purchase accounting fair value
adjustments that were recorded on the Firm s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(c) 
       
     Subject to Series K Preferred Stock restrictions, which are discussed in Note 24
below. 

Table of Contents   

Note
24   Preferred stock 

JPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 200
million shares of preferred stock, in one or more
series, with a par value of $1 per share.

On April 23, 2008, the Firm issued 600,000
shares of Fixed to Floating Rate Noncumulative
Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I ( Series
I ).

On July 15, 2008, each series of Bear Stearns
preferred stock then issued and outstanding was
exchanged into a series of JPMorgan Chase
preferred stock
(Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, Series F
and Series G) having substantially identical
terms. As a result of the exchange, these
preferred shares rank equally with the other
series of the Firm s preferred stock.

On August 21, 2008, the Firm issued 180,000
shares of 8.625% Noncumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, Series J ( Series J ).

On October 28, 2008, pursuant to the U.S.
Department of the Treasury s (the  U.S. Treasury )
Capital Purchase Program (the  Capital Purchase
Program ), the Firm issued to the U.S. Treasury, in
exchange for total proceeds of $25.0 billion, (i)
2.5 million shares of the Firm s Fixed Rate
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series K, par
value $1 per share and liquidation preference
$10,000 per share (the  Series K Preferred Stock ),
and (ii) a warrant to purchase 88,401,697 shares of
the Firm s common stock at an exercise price

of $42.42 per share (the  Warrant ). The $25.0
billion proceeds were allocated to the Series K
Preferred Stock and the Warrant based on the
relative fair value of the instruments. The
difference between the initial carrying value of
$23.7 billion that was allocated to the Series K
Preferred Stock and its redemption value of $25.0
billion will be charged to retained earnings (with
a corresponding increase in the carrying value of
the Series K Preferred Stock) over the first five
years of the contract as an adjustment to the
dividend yield using the effective yield method.
The Series K Preferred Stock is non-voting,
qualifies as Tier 1 capital and ranks equally with
the Firm s other series of preferred stock.

In the event of a liquidation or dissolution of
the Firm, JPMorgan Chase s preferred stock then
outstanding takes precedence over the Firm s
common stock for the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets.

Generally, dividends on shares of outstanding
series of preferred stock are payable quarterly.
Dividends on the shares of Series I preferred stock
are payable semiannually at a fixed annual dividend
rate of 7.90% through April 2018, and then become
payable quarterly at an annual dividend rate of
three-month LIBOR plus 3.47%.
Dividends are payable quarterly on the Series K
Preferred Stock at a fixed annual dividend rate of
5% for the first five years, and a fixed annual
dividend rate of 9% thereafter. The effective
dividend yield of Series K Preferred stock is
6.16%.

The following is a summary of JPMorgan Chase preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2008.
There was no preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2007.

(a) 
       
     Represented by depositary shares. 

(b) 
       
     Redemption price includes amount shown in the table plus any accrued but unpaid
dividends. 

(c) 
       
     Represents the carrying value as of December 31, 2008. The redemption value is $25.0
billion. 

(d) 
       
     Subject to Series K Preferred Stock restrictions, which are discussed below. 

(e) 
       
     Generally, the Firm may not redeem Series K Preferred Stock prior to the first
dividend payment date falling on or after October 28, 2011. However, prior to this date,
the Firm may redeem the securities up to the amount of the aggregate gross proceeds from a
 qualified equity offering  if it has received aggregate gross proceeds from such
offerings above an amount agreed with the U.S. Treasury and received approval from the
applicable federal banking agencies. 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Series K Preferred Stock  
 Dividend restrictions  
For as long as any shares of Series K Preferred
Stock are outstanding, no dividends may be declared
or paid on stock ranking junior or equally with the
Series K Preferred Stock, unless all accrued and
unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods on
the Series K Preferred Stock are fully paid. Pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, until October 28, 2011, the U.S. Treasury s
 consent is required for any increase in dividends on the Firm s common stock from the amount of the last
 quarterly stock dividend declared by the Firm prior to October 14, 2008, unless the Series K Preferred Stock is
redeemed in whole before then, or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series K Preferred Stock it owns to third parties.

Stock repurchase restrictions  
The Firm may not repurchase or redeem any common
stock or other equity securities of the Firm, or
any trust preferred capital debt securities issued
by the Firm or any of its affiliates, without the
prior consent of the U.S. Treasury (other than (i)
repurchases of the Series K Preferred Stock and
(ii) repurchases of junior preferred shares or
common stock in connection with any employee
benefit plan in the ordinary course of business
consistent with past practice) until October 28,
2011, unless the Series K Preferred Stock is
redeemed in whole before then, or the U.S. Treasury
has transferred all of the Series K Preferred Stock
it owns to third parties.

Note
25   Common stock 

At December 31, 2008, JPMorgan Chase was
authorized to issue 9.0 billion shares of common
stock with a $1 par value per share.

On September 30, 2008, the Firm issued $11.5
billion of new shares of common stock at $40.50 per
share, representing 284 million shares.

On April 8, 2008, pursuant to the Share Exchange
Agreement dated March 24, 2008, between JPMorgan
Chase and Bear Stearns, 20.7 million newly issued
shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock were issued
to Bear Stearns in a transaction that was exempt
from registration under the Securities Act of 1933,
pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof, in exchange for
95.0 million newly issued shares of Bear Stearns
common stock (or 39.5% of Bear Stearns common stock
after giving effect to the issuance). Upon the
consummation of the Bear Stearns merger, on May 30,
2008, the 20.7 million shares of JPMorgan Chase
common stock and 95 million shares of Bear Stearns
common stock were cancelled. For a further
discussion of this transaction, see Note 2 on pages
123 128 of this Annual Report.

Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed
from treasury) by JPMorgan Chase during 2008, 2007
and 2006 were as follows.

Pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, the
Firm issued to the U.S. Treasury a Warrant to
purchase up to 88,401,697 shares of the Firm s
common stock at an exercise price of $42.42 per
share. Based upon its fair value relative to the
Series K Preferred Stock as discussed in Note 24 on
pages 193 194 of this Annual Report, the Warrant
was recorded in capital surplus at a value of $1.3
billion and is accounted for as equity. The Warrant
is exercisable, in whole or in part, at any time and
from time to time until the tenth anniversary of
the issue date.

Table of Contents   

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the
Firm did not repurchase any shares of common stock.
During 2007 and 2006, the Firm repurchased 168
million shares and 91 million shares, respectively,
of common stock under stock repurchase programs
approved by the Board of Directors.

The Board of Directors approved in April 2007, a
stock repurchase program that authorizes the
repurchase of up to $10.0 billion of the Firm s
common shares, which superseded an $8.0 billion
stock repurchase program approved in 2006. The
$10.0 billion authorization includes shares to be
repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm s
employee stock-based plans. The actual number of
shares that may be repurchased is subject to
various factors, including market conditions; legal
considerations affecting the amount and timing of
repurchase activity; the Firm s capital position
(taking into account goodwill and intangibles);
internal capital generation; and alternative
potential investment opportunities. The repurchase
program does not include specific price targets or
timetables; may be executed through open market
purchases or privately negotiated transactions, or
utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs; and may be
suspended at any time. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase
plan allows the Firm to repurchase shares during
periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing
common stock   for example, during internal
trading  black-out periods.  All purchases under a
Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a
predefined plan that is established when the Firm
is not aware of material nonpublic information.

For a discussion of restrictions on the Firm s
ability to repurchase the Firm s common stock, see
Note 24 above.

As of December 31, 2008, approximately 524 million
unissued shares of common stock were reserved for
issuance under various employee incentive,
compensation, option and stock purchase plans,
director compensation plans and the Warrant issued
to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase
Program as discussed above.

Note
26   Earnings per share 

SFAS 128 requires the presentation of basic and
diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) in the
Consolidated Statements of Income. Basic EPS is
computed by dividing net income applicable to
common stock by the weighted-average number of
common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted
EPS is computed using the same method for the
numerator as basic EPS but, in the denominator, the
number of common shares reflect, in addition to
outstanding shares, the potential dilution that
could occur if convertible securities or other
contracts to issue common stock were converted or
exercised into common stock. Net income available
for
common stock is the same for basic EPS and diluted
EPS, as JPMorgan Chase had no convertible
securities, and therefore, no adjustments to net
income applicable to common stock were necessary.
The following table presents the calculation of
basic and diluted EPS for 2008, 2007 and 2006.

(a) 
       
     Options issued under employee benefit plans and, in 2008, the warrant issued under
the U.S. Treasury s Capital Purchase Program to purchase an aggregate 209 million, 129
million and 150 million shares of common stock were outstanding for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, but were not included in the computation
of diluted EPS, because the options and warrant were antidilutive. 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Note
27   Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) includes the after-tax change in unrealized gains
and losses on AFS securities, SFAS 52 foreign currency translation adjustments (including the
impact of related derivatives), SFAS 133 cash flow hedging activities and SFAS 158 net loss and
prior service cost (credit) related to the Firm s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.

(a) 
       
     Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of
the AFS securities portfolio and retained interests in securitizations recorded in other
assets. 

(b) 
       
     The net change during 2006 was due primarily to the reversal of unrealized losses
from securities sales. 

(c) 
       
     The net change during 2007 was due primarily to a decline in interest rates. 

(d) 
       
     The net change during 2008 was due primarily to spread widening in credit card
asset-backed securities, non-agency mortgage-backed securities and collateralized loan
obligations. 

(e) 
       
     For further discussion of SFAS 158, see Note 9 on pages
149 155 of this Annual
Report. 

The following table presents the after-tax changes in net unrealized gains (losses); and
reclassification adjustments for realized (gains) losses on AFS securities and cash flow hedges;
changes resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of related
derivatives); net gains (losses) and prior service costs from pension and OPEB plans; and
amortization of pension and OPEB amounts into net income. The table also reflects the adjustment to
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) resulting from the initial application of SFAS 158 to
the Firm s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. Reclassification adjustments include amounts
recognized in net income that had been recorded previously in other comprehensive income (loss).

Table of Contents   

(a) 
       
     For further discussion of SFAS 158 and details of changes to accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), see Note 9 on pages 149 155 of this Annual Report. 

Note 28
  Income taxes 

JPMorgan Chase and eligible subsidiaries file a
consolidated U.S. federal income tax return.
JPMorgan Chase uses the asset-and-liability method
required by SFAS 109 as amended by FIN 48 to
provide income taxes on all transactions recorded
in the consolidated financial statements. This
method requires that income taxes reflect the
expected future tax consequences of temporary
differences between the carrying amounts of assets
or liabilities for book and tax purposes.
Accordingly, a deferred tax liability or asset for
each temporary difference is determined based upon
the tax rates that the Firm expects to be in effect
when the underlying items of income and expense are
realized. JPMorgan Chase s expense for income taxes
includes the current and deferred portions of that
expense. A valuation allowance is established to
reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the Firm
expects to realize.

Due to the inherent complexities arising from the
nature of the Firm s businesses, and from
conducting business and being taxed in a
substantial number of jurisdictions, significant
judgments and estimates are required to be
made. Agreement of tax liabilities between JPMorgan
Chase and the many tax jurisdictions in which the
Firm files tax returns may not be finalized for
several years. Thus, the Firm s final tax-related
assets and liabilities may ultimately be different
than those currently reported.

The components of income tax expense (benefit)
included in the Consolidated Statements of
Income were as follows.

Total income tax expense includes $55 million,
$74 million, and $367 million of tax benefits
recorded in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a
result of tax audit resolutions.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

The preceding table does not reflect the tax
effect of certain items that are recorded each
period directly in stockholders  equity and certain
tax benefits associated with the Firm s employee
stock-based compensation plans. The table does not
reflect the cumulative tax effects of initially
implementing new accounting pronouncements in 2007
and 2006. The tax effect of all items recorded
directly to stockholders  equity was an increase in
stockholders  equity of $3.0 billion, $159 million
and $885 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.

U.S. federal income taxes have not been provided on
the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S.
subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings have
been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of
time. During 2008, as part of JPMorgan Chase s
periodic review of the business requirements and
capital needs of its non-U.S. subsidiaries,
combined with the formation of specific strategies
and steps taken to fulfill these requirements and
needs, the Firm determined that the undistributed
earnings of certain of its subsidiaries, for which
U.S. federal income taxes had been provided, will
remain indefinitely reinvested to fund the current
and future growth of the related businesses. As
management does not intend to use the earnings of
these subsidiaries as a source of funding for its
U.S. operations, such earnings will not be
distributed to the U.S. in the foreseeable future.
This determination resulted in the release of
deferred tax liabilities and the recognition of an
income tax benefit of $1.1 billion associated with
these undistributed earnings. For 2008, pretax
earnings of approximately $2.5 billion were
generated that will remain indefinitely invested in
these subsidiaries. At December 31, 2008, the
cumulative amount of undistributed pretax earnings
in these subsidiaries approximated $12.9 billion.
If the Firm were to record a deferred tax liability
associated with these undistributed earnings, the
amount would be $2.9 billion at December 31, 2008.

The tax expense (benefit) applicable to securities
gains and losses for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006
was $608 million, $60 million and $(219) million,
respectively.

A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S.
income tax rate to the effective tax rate for
continuing operations for the past three years is
shown in the following table.

Deferred income tax expense (benefit) results
from differences between assets and liabilities
measured for financial reporting and for income-tax
return purposes. The significant components of
deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected
in the following table.

JPMorgan Chase has recorded deferred tax assets
of $1.4 billion in connection with net operating
loss and business tax credit carry forwards. The
U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of
approximately $1.3 billion, the state and local net
operating loss carryforwards of approximately $7.2
billion, and the business tax credit carryforward
of approximately $300 million are subject to annual
limitations on utilization. If not utilized, the
net operating losses would expire in 2026, 2027 and
2028, and the business tax credits would expire in
2028. In addition, an alternative minimum tax
credit carry-forward has been recorded for
approximately $200 million and has an indefinite
carryforward period.

A valuation allowance has been recorded relating to
state and local net operating losses, losses
associated with non-U.S. subsidiaries and losses
associated with certain portfolio investments. The
increase in the valuation allowance from the prior
year to 2008 is largely related to Bear Stearns.

The Firm adopted and applied FIN 48, which
addresses the recognition and measurement of tax
positions taken or expected to be taken, and also
provides guidance on derecognition, classification,
interest and penalties, accounting in interim
periods and disclosure, to all of its
income tax positions at the required effective date
of January 1, 2007, resulting in a $436 million
cumulative effect increase to retained earnings, a
reduction in goodwill of $113 million and a $549
million decrease in the liability for income taxes.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, JPMorgan Chase s
unrecognized tax benefits, excluding related
interest expense and penalties, were
$5.9 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively, of which $2.9 billion and
$1.3 billion, if recognized, would reduce the
annual effective tax rate. As JPMorgan Chase is
presently under audit by a number of tax
authorities, it is reasonably possible that
unrecognized tax benefits could significantly
change over the next 12 months, which could also
significantly impact JPMorgan Chase s quarterly and
annual effective tax rates.

Table of Contents   

The following table presents a reconciliation of
the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax
benefits for the years 2008 and 2007.

Pretax interest expense and penalties related
to income tax liabilities recognized in income tax
expense were $571 million ($346 million after-tax)
in 2008 and $516 million ($314 million after-tax)
in 2007. Included in accounts payable and other
liabilities at December 31, 2008 and 2007, in
addition to the Firm s liability for unrecognized
tax benefits, was $2.3 billion and $1.6 billion,
respectively, for income tax-related interest and
penalties, of which the penalty component was
insignificant.

JPMorgan Chase is subject to ongoing tax
examinations by the tax authorities of the various
jurisdictions in which it operates, including U.S.
federal and state and non-U.S.
jurisdictions. The Firm s consolidated federal
income tax returns are presently under examination
by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) for the
years 2003, 2004 and 2005. The consolidated federal
income tax returns of Bank One Corporation, which
merged with and into JPMorgan Chase on July 1,
2004, are under examination for the years 2000
through 2003, and for the period January 1, 2004,
through July 1, 2004. The consolidated federal
income tax returns of Bear Stearns for the years
ended November 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005, are also under
examination. All three examinations are expected to
conclude in 2009. The IRS audits of the
consolidated federal income tax returns of JPMorgan
Chase for the years 2006 and 2007, and for Bear
Stearns for the years ended November 30, 2006 and 2007, are expected
to commence in 2009. Administrative appeals are
pending with the IRS relating to prior examination
periods. For 2002 and prior years, refund claims
relating to income and credit adjustments, and to
tax attribute carrybacks, for JPMorgan Chase and
its predecessor entities, including Bank One, have
been filed. Amended returns to reflect refund
claims primarily attributable to net operating
losses and tax credit carrybacks will be filed for
the final Bear Stearns federal consolidated tax
return for the period December 1, 2007, through May 30, 2008, and for prior years.

The following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S.
components of income from continuing operations
before income tax expense (benefit).

(a) 
       
     For purposes of this table, non-U.S. income is defined as income generated from
operations located outside the U.S. 

Note
29   Restrictions on cash and
intercompany funds transfers 

The business of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
( JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ) is subject to
examination and regulation by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ). The Bank is a
member of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, and its
deposits are insured by the FDIC as discussed in Note 20 on
page 190 of this Annual Report.

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (the  Federal Reserve ) requires depository
institutions to maintain cash reserves with a
Federal Reserve Bank. The average amount of
reserve balances deposited by the Firm s bank
subsidiaries with various Federal Reserve Banks
was approximately $1.6 billion in 2008 and 2007.

Restrictions imposed by U.S. federal law prohibit
JPMorgan Chase and certain of its affiliates from
borrowing from banking subsidiaries unless the
loans are secured in specified amounts. Such
secured loans
to the Firm or to other affiliates are generally
limited to 10% of the banking subsidiary s total
capital, as determined by the risk-based capital
guidelines; the aggregate amount of all such loans
is limited to 20% of the banking subsidiary s total
capital.

The principal sources of JPMorgan Chase s income
(on a parent company only basis) are dividends and
interest from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and the
other banking and nonbanking subsidiaries of
JPMorgan Chase. In addition to dividend
restrictions set forth in statutes and regulations,
the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC have
authority under the Financial Institutions
Supervisory Act to prohibit or to limit the payment
of dividends by the banking organizations they
supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its
subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding
companies, if, in the banking regulator s opinion,
payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or
unsound practice in light of the financial
condition of the banking organization.

At January 1, 2009 and 2008, JPMorgan Chase s
banking subsidiaries could pay, in the aggregate,
$17.0 billion and $16.2 billion, respectively, in
dividends to their respective bank holding
companies without the prior approval of their
relevant banking regulators. The capacity to pay
dividends in 2009 will be supplemented by the
banking subsidiaries  earnings during the year.

In compliance with rules and regulations
established by U.S. and non-U.S. regulators, as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, cash in the amount of
$20.8 billion and $16.0 billion, respectively, and
securities with a fair value of $12.1 billion and
$3.4 billion, respectively, were segregated in
special bank accounts for the benefit of securities
and futures brokerage customers.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Note 30
  Capital 

The Federal Reserve establishes capital
requirements, including well-capitalized standards
for the consolidated financial holding company. The
OCC establishes similar capital requirements and
standards for the Firm s national banks, including
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A.

There are two categories of risk-based capital:
Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital
includes common stockholders  equity, qualifying
preferred stock and minority interest less goodwill
and other adjustments. Tier 2 capital consists of
preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1,
subordinated long-term debt and other instruments
qualifying as Tier 2, and the aggregate allowance
for credit losses up to a certain percentage of
risk-weighted assets. Total regulatory capital is
subject to deductions for investments in certain
subsidiaries. Under the risk-based capital
guidelines of the Federal Reserve, JPMorgan Chase
is required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1
and Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2)
capital to risk-weighted assets, as well as minimum
leverage ratios (which are defined as Tier 1
capital to average adjusted on-balance sheet
assets). Failure to meet these minimum requirements
could cause the Federal Reserve to take action.
Banking subsidiaries also are subject to these
capital

requirements by their respective primary
regulators. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
JPMorgan Chase and all of its banking subsidiaries
were well-capitalized and met all capital
requirements to which each was subject.

The Federal Reserve granted the Firm, for a period
of 18 months following the Bear Stearns merger,
relief up to a certain specified amount and
subject to certain conditions from the Federal
Reserve s risk-based capital and leverage
requirements with respect to Bear Stearns 
risk-weighted assets and other exposures acquired.
The amount of such relief is subject to reduction
by one-sixth each quarter subsequent to the merger
and expires on October 1, 2009. The OCC granted
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. similar relief from its
risk-based capital and leverage requirements.

The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant
banking subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007.

(a) 
       
     Asset and capital amounts for JPMorgan Chase s banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany
transactions, whereas the respective amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect the elimination of
intercompany transactions. 

(b) 
       
     As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC. 

(c) 
       
     Includes off-balance sheet risk-weighted assets in the amounts of $357.5 billion, $332.2
billion and $18.6 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008, and $352.7 billion, $336.8 billion
and $13.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007, for JPMorgan Chase, JPMorgan Bank, N.A. and
Chase Bank USA, N.A. 

(d) 
       
     Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the leverage ratio, include total average
assets adjusted for unrealized gains/losses on securities, less deductions for disallowed goodwill
and other intangible assets, investments in certain subsidiaries and the total adjusted carrying
value of nonfinancial equity investments that are subject to deductions from Tier 1 capital. 

(e) 
       
     Represents requirements for banking subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act. There is no Tier 1 leverage component in the
definition of a well-capitalized bank holding company. 

(f) 
       
     The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio for bank holding companies and banks is 3% or 4% depending on
factors specified in regulations issued by the Federal Reserve and OCC. 

Note: 
       
     Rating agencies allow
measures of capital to be adjusted upward for deferred tax liabilities which have resulted from
both nontaxable business combinations and from tax-deductible goodwill. The Firm had deferred tax
liabilities resulting from nontaxable business combinations totaling $1.1 billion at December 31,
2008, and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2007. Additionally, the Firm had deferred tax liabilities
resulting from tax-deductible goodwill of $1.6 billion at December 31, 2008, and $939 million at
December 31, 2007. 

Table of Contents   

The following table shows the components of the Firm s Tier 1 and Total capital.

(a) 
       
     Primarily includes trust preferred capital debt securities of certain business trusts. 

Note 31
  Commitments and contingencies 

At December 31, 2008, JPMorgan Chase and its
subsidiaries were obligated under a number of
noncancelable operating leases for premises and
equipment used primarily for banking purposes, and
for energy-related tolling service agreements.
Certain leases contain renewal options or
escalation clauses providing for increased rental
payments based upon maintenance, utility and tax
increases or require the Firm to perform
restoration work on leased premises. No lease
agreement imposes restrictions on the Firm s
ability to pay dividends, engage in debt or equity
financing transactions or enter into further lease
agreements.

The following table presents required future
minimum rental payments under operating leases
with noncancelable lease terms that expire after
December 31, 2008.

(a) 
       
     Lease restoration obligations are accrued in accordance with SFAS 13, and are not
reported as a required minimum lease payment. 

Total rental expense was as follows.

At December 31, 2008, assets were pledged to
secure public deposits and for other purposes.
The significant components of the assets pledged
were as follows.

(a) 
       
     Total assets pledged do not include assets of consolidated
VIEs. These assets are generally used to satisfy liabilities to third
parties. See Note 17 on pages 177 186 of this Annual Report
for additional information on assets and liabilities of consolidated
VIEs. 

The Firm has resolved with the IRS issues
related to compliance with reporting and
withholding requirements for certain accounts
transferred to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
( BNYM ) in connection with the Firm s sale to BNYM
of its corporate trust business. The resolution of
these issues did not have a material effect on the
Firm.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Note 32   Accounting for derivative
instruments and hedging activities 

Derivative instruments enable end-users to
increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or
market risks. The value of a derivative is derived
from its reference to an underlying variable or
combination of variables such as equity, foreign
exchange, credit, commodity or interest rate prices
or indices. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in
derivatives for customers and also is an end-user
of derivatives in order to hedge or manage risks of
market exposures, modify the interest rate
characteristics of related balance sheet
instruments or meet longer-term investment
objectives. The majority of the Firm s derivatives
are entered into for market-making purposes. SFAS
133, as amended by SFAS 138, SFAS 149, SFAS 155 and
FSP FAS 133-1, establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments, including
those used for trading and hedging activities and
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts.
All free-standing derivatives are required to be
recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair
value. The accounting for changes in value of a
derivative depends on whether or not the contract
has been designated and qualifies for hedge
accounting. Derivative receivables and payables,
whether designated for hedging relationships or
not, are recorded in trading assets and trading
liabilities as set forth in Note 6 on page 147 of
this Annual Report.

Derivatives used for trading purposes  
The Firm makes markets in derivatives for customers
seeking to modify, or reduce interest rate, credit,
foreign exchange, equity and commodity and other
market risks or for risk-taking purposes. The Firm
typically manages its exposure from such
derivatives by entering into derivatives or other
financial instruments that partially or fully
offset the exposure from the client transaction.
The Firm actively manages any residual exposure and
seeks to earn a spread between the client
derivatives and offsetting positions. For the
Firm s own account, the Firm uses derivatives to
take risk positions or to benefit from differences
in prices between derivative markets and markets
for other financial instruments.

Derivatives used for risk management purposes  
Interest rate contracts, which are generally
interest rate swaps, forwards and futures are
utilized in the Firm s risk management activities
to minimize fluctuations in earnings caused by
interest rate volatility. As a result of interest
rate fluctuations, fixed-rate assets and
liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market
value. Gains or losses on the derivative
instruments that are linked to fixed-rate assets
and liabilities and forecasted transactions are
expected to offset substantially this unrealized
appreciation or depreciation. Interest income and
interest expense on variable-rate assets and
liabilities and on forecasted transactions increase
or
decrease as a result of interest rate fluctuations.
Gains and losses on the derivative instruments that
are linked to assets and liabilities and forecasted
transactions are expected to offset substantially
this variability in earnings. Interest rate swaps
involve the exchange of fixed-rate and
variable-rate interest payments based on the
contracted notional amount. Forward contracts used
for the Firm s interest rate risk management
activities are primarily arrangements to exchange
cash in the future

based on price movements of specified financial
instruments. Futures contracts used are primarily
index futures which provide for cash payments based
upon the movements of an underlying rate index.

The Firm uses foreign currency contracts to manage
the foreign exchange risk associated with certain
foreign currency-denominated
(i.e., non-U.S.) assets and liabilities and
forecasted transactions denominated in a foreign
currency, as well as the Firm s equity investments
in foreign subsidiaries. As a result of foreign
currency fluctuations, the U.S. dollar equivalent
values of the foreign currency-denominated assets
and liabilities or forecasted transactions change.
Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that
are linked to the foreign currency denominated
assets or liabilities or forecasted transactions
are expected to offset substantially this
variability. Foreign exchange forward contracts
represent agreements to exchange the currency of
one country for the currency of another country at
an agreed-upon price on an agreed-upon settlement
date.

The Firm uses forward contracts to manage the
overall price risk associated with the gold
inventory in its commodities portfolio. As a result
of gold price fluctuations, the fair value of the
gold inventory changes. Gains or losses on the
derivative instruments that are linked to gold
inventory are expected to substantially offset this
unrealized appreciation or depreciation. Forward
contracts used for the Firm s gold inventory risk
management activities are arrangements to deliver
gold in the future.

The Firm uses credit derivatives to manage the
credit risk associated with loans, lending-related
commitments and derivative receivables, as well as
exposure to residential and commercial mortgages.
Credit derivatives compensate the purchaser when
the entity referenced in the contract experiences
a credit event such as bankruptcy or a failure to
pay an obligation when due. For a further
discussion of credit derivatives, see the
discussion below.

In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a
derivative must be considered highly effective at
reducing the risk associated with the exposure
being hedged. In order for a derivative to be
designated as a hedge, there must be documentation
of the risk management objective and strategy,
including identification of the hedging instrument,
the hedged item and the risk exposure, and how
effectiveness is to be assessed prospectively and
retrospectively. To assess effectiveness, the Firm
uses statistical methods such as regression
analysis, as well
as nonstatistical methods including dollar value
comparisons of the change in the fair value of the
derivative to the change in the fair value or cash
flows of the hedged item. The extent to which a
hedging instrument has been and is expected to
continue to be effective at achieving offsetting
changes in fair value or cash flows must be
assessed and documented at least quarterly. Any
ineffectiveness must be reported in current-period
earnings. If it is determined that a derivative is
not highly effective at hedging the designated
exposure, hedge accounting is discontinued.

For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in
the fair value of the derivative and in the fair
value of the hedged item for the risk being hedged
are recognized in earnings. If the hedge
relationship is terminated, then the fair value
adjustment to the hedged item continues

Table of Contents   

to be reported as part of the basis of the item and
continues to be amortized to earnings as a yield
adjustment. For qualifying cash flow hedges, the
effective portion of the change in the fair value
of the derivative is recorded in other
comprehensive income (loss) and recognized in the
Consolidated Statements of Income when the hedged
cash flows affect earnings. The ineffective
portions of cash flow hedges are immediately
recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship
is terminated, then the change in fair value of the
derivative recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
is recognized when the cash flows that were hedged
occur, consistent with the original hedge strategy.
For hedge relationships that are discontinued
because the forecasted transaction is not expected
to occur according to the original strategy, any
related derivative amounts recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) are immediately recognized in
earnings. For qualifying net investment hedges,
changes in the fair value of the derivative or the
revaluation of the foreign currency denominated
debt instrument are recorded in the translation
adjustments account within accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss).

JPMorgan Chase s fair value hedges primarily
include hedges of the interest rate risk inherent
in fixed-rate long-term debt, warehouse loans, AFS
securities, and the overall price of gold
inventory. All changes in the hedging derivative s
fair value are included in earnings consistent with
the classification of the hedged item, primarily
net interest income for long-term debt and AFS
securities; other income for warehouse loans; and
principal transactions revenue for gold inventory.
The Firm did not recognize any gains or losses
during 2008, 2007 or 2006 on firm commitments that
no longer qualified as fair value hedges.

JPMorgan Chase also enters into derivative
contracts to hedge exposure to variability in cash
flows from floating-rate financial instruments and
forecasted transactions, primarily the rollover of
short-term assets and liabilities, and foreign
currency denominated revenue and expense. All
hedging derivative amounts affecting earnings are
recognized consistent with the classification of
the hedged item, primarily net interest
income.

The Firm uses forward foreign exchange contracts
and foreign currency denominated debt instruments
to protect the value of net investments in
subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the
U.S. dollar. The portion of the hedging derivative
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness
(i.e., forward points) is recorded in net interest
income.

JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge
accounting to all of the Firm s economic hedges.
For example, the Firm does not apply hedge
accounting to purchased credit default swaps used
to manage the credit risk of loans and commitments
because of the difficulties in qualifying such
contracts as hedges under SFAS 133. Similarly, the
Firm does not apply hedge accounting to certain
interest rate derivatives used as economic hedges.

The following table presents derivative
instrument hedging-related activities for the
periods indicated.

(a) 
       
     Includes ineffectiveness and the components of hedging instruments that have been
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. 

(b) 
       
     During the second half of 2007, the Firm did not issue short-term fixed rate
Canadian dollar denominated notes due to the weak credit market for Canadian short-term
debt. 

Over the next 12 months, it is expected that
$348 million (after-tax) of net losses recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at
December 31, 2008, will be recognized in earnings.
The maximum length of time over which forecasted
transactions are hedged is ten years, and such
transactions primarily relate to core lending and
borrowing activities.

Credit derivatives  
Credit derivatives are financial instruments whose
value is derived from the credit risk associated
with the debt of a third party issuer (the
reference entity) and which allow one party (the
protection purchaser) to transfer that risk to
another party (the protection seller). Credit
derivatives expose the protection purchaser to the
creditworthiness of the protection seller, as the
protection seller is required to make payments
under the contract when the reference entity experiences a credit event, such
as a bankruptcy, failure to pay its obligation, or
a restructuring. The seller of credit protection
receives a premium for providing protection, but
has the risk that the underlying instrument
referenced in the contract will be subjected to a
credit event.

The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of credit
protection in the credit derivatives market and
uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes.
First, in its capacity
as a market-maker in the dealer/client business,
the Firm actively risk manages a portfolio of credit
derivatives by purchasing and selling credit
protection, predominantly on corporate debt
obligations, to meet the needs of customers. As a
seller of protection, the Firm s exposure to a
given reference entity may be offset partially, or
entirely, with a contract to purchase protection
from another counterparty on the same or similar
reference entity. Second, the Firm uses credit
derivatives in order to mitigate the Firm s credit
risk associated with the overall derivative
receivables and traditional commercial credit
lending exposures (loans and unfunded commitments)
as well as to manage its exposure to residential
and commercial mortgages. See Note 4 on pages
129 143 of this Annual Report for further
information on the Firm s mortgage-related
exposures. In accomplishing the above, the Firm
uses different types of credit derivatives.
Following is a summary of various types of credit
derivatives.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Credit default swaps  
Credit derivatives may reference the credit of
either a single reference entity ( single-name ) or
a broad-based index, as described further below. The Firm purchases and sells protection
on both single-name and index-reference
obligations. Single-name credit default swaps
( CDS ) and index CDS contracts are both OTC
derivative contracts. Single-name CDS are used to
manage the default risk of a single reference
entity, while CDS index are used to manage credit
risk associated with the broader credit markets or
credit market segments. Like the S P 500 and other
market indices, a CDS index is comprised of a
portfolio of CDS across many reference entities.
New series of CDS indices are established
approximately every six months with a new
underlying portfolio of reference entities to
reflect changes in the credit markets. If one of
the reference entities in the index experiences a
credit event, then the reference entity that
defaulted is removed from the index and is replaced
with another reference entity. CDS can also be
referenced against specific portfolios of reference
names or against customized exposure levels based
on specific client demands: for example, to provide
protection against the first $1 million of realized
credit losses in a $10 million portfolio of
exposure. Such structures are commonly known as
tranche CDS.

For both single-name CDS contracts and index CDS,
upon the occurrence of a credit event, under the
terms of a CDS contract neither party to the CDS
contract has recourse to the reference entity. The
protection purchaser has recourse to the protection
seller for the difference between the face value of
the CDS contract and the fair value of the
reference obligation at the time of settling the
credit derivative contract, also known as the
recovery value. The protection purchaser does not
need to hold the debt instrument of the underlying
reference entity in order to receive amounts due
under the CDS contract when a credit event occurs.

Credit-linked notes  
A credit linked note ( CLN ) is a funded credit
derivative where the issuer of the CLN purchases
credit protection on a referenced entity from the
note investor. Under the contract, the investor
pays the issuer par value of the note at the
inception of the transaction, and in return, the
issuer pays periodic payments to the investor,
based on the credit risk of the referenced entity.
The issuer also repays the investor the par value
of the note at maturity unless the reference entity
experiences a specified credit event. In that
event, the issuer is not obligated to repay the par
value of the note, but rather, the issuer pays the
investor the
difference between the par value of the note and
the fair value of the defaulted reference
obligation at the time of settlement. Neither party
to the CLN has recourse to the defaulting reference
entity. For a further discussion of CLNs, see Note
17 on pages 182 183 of this Annual Report.

The following table presents a summary of the
notional amounts of credit derivatives and
credit-linked notes the Firm sold and purchased,
and the net position as of December 31, 2008. Upon
a credit event, the Firm as seller of protection
would typically pay out only a percentage of the
full notional of net protection sold; as the amount
that is actually required to be paid on the
contracts take into account the recovery value of
the reference obligation at the time of settlement.
The Firm manages the credit risk on contracts to sell protection by
purchasing protection with identical or similar underlying reference
entities; as such other protection purchased
referenced in the following table includes credit derivatives bought on related, but
not identical reference positions, including
indices, portfolio coverage and other reference
points, which further mitigates the risk associated with the net protection
sold.

Table of Contents   

Total credit derivatives and credit-linked notes 

(a) 
       
     Primarily consists of total return swaps and options to enter
into credit default swap contracts. 

(b) 
       
     Represents the notional amount of purchased credit derivatives where the
underlying reference instrument is identical to the reference instrument on which the Firm
has sold credit protection. 

(c) 
       
     Does not take into account the fair value of the reference obligation at the time
of settlement, which would generally reduce the amount the seller of protection pays to
the buyer of protection in determining settlement value. 

(d) 
       
     Represents single-name and index CDS protection the Firm purchased primarily to
risk manage the net protection sold. 

The following table summarizes the notional and fair value amounts of credit derivatives and
credit-linked notes as of December 31, 2008, where JPMorgan Chase is the seller of protection. The
maturity profile presents the years to maturity based upon the remaining contractual maturity of
the credit derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the reference entity
on which the credit derivative contract is based. The ratings and
maturity profile of protection purchased is comparable to the profile
reflected below.

Protection sold   credit derivatives and credit-linked notes ratings/maturity profile  (a) 

(a) 
       
     The contractual maturity for single-name CDS contract generally ranges from three
months to ten years and the contractual maturity for index CDS is generally five years.
The contractual maturity for CLNs typically ranges from three to five years. 

(b) 
       
     Ratings scale is based upon the Firm s internal ratings, which generally
correspond to ratings defined by S P and Moody s. 

(c) 
       
     Amounts are shown on a gross basis, before the benefit of legally enforceable
master netting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Note 33   Off-balance sheet lending-related
financial instruments and guarantees 

JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related
financial instruments (e.g., commitments and
guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its
customers. The contractual amount of these
financial instruments represents the maximum
possible credit risk should the counterparties draw
down on these commitments or the Firm fulfills its
obligation under these guarantees, and the
counterparties subsequently fail to perform
according to the terms of these contracts. Most of
these commitments and guarantees expire without a
default occurring or without being drawn. As a
result, the total contractual amount of these
instruments is not, in the Firm s view,
representative of its actual future credit exposure
or funding requirements. Further, certain
commitments, predominantly related to consumer
financings, are cancelable, upon notice, at the
option of the Firm.

To provide for the risk of loss inherent in
wholesale related contracts, an allowance for
credit losses on lending-related commitments is
maintained. See Note 15 on pages 166 168 of this
Annual Report for further discussion of the
allowance for credit losses on lending-related
commitments.

The following table summarizes the contractual
amounts of off-balance sheet lending-related
financial instruments and guarantees and the
related allowance
for credit losses on lending-related commitments at
December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees 

(a) 
       
     Includes credit card and home equity lending-related commitments of $623.7 billion
and $95.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008; and $714.8 billion and $74.2
billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007. These amounts for credit card and home equity
lending-related commitments represent the total available credit for these products. The
Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all available lines of credit for
these products will be utilized at the same time. The Firm can reduce or cancel these
lines of credit by providing the borrower prior notice or, in some cases, without notice
as permitted by law. 

(b) 
       
     Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $36.3 billion and $38.4 billion
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are not legally binding. In regulatory
filings with the Federal Reserve, unused advised lines are not reportable. 

(c) 
       
     Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $28.3 billion at
both December 31, 2008 and 2007. 

(d) 
       
     Excludes unfunded commitments to third-party private equity funds of $1.4 billion
and $881 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Also excludes unfunded
commitments for other equity investments of $1.0 billion and $903 million at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(e) 
       
     Includes commitments to investment and noninvestment grade counterparties in
connection with leveraged acquisitions of $3.6 billion and $8.2 billion at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(f) 
       
     Largely represents asset purchase agreements with the Firm s administered
multi-seller, asset-backed commercial paper conduits. It also includes $96 million and
$1.1 billion of asset purchase agreements to other third-party entities at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(g) 
       
     JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $31.0 billion and $31.5 billion of
these arrangements at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Prior periods have been
revised to conform to the current presentation. 

(h) 
       
     Includes unissued standby letters of credit commitments of $39.5 billion and $50.7
billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(i) 
       
     Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification
agreements was $170.1 billion and $390.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Securities lending collateral comprises primarily cash, securities issued by
governments that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
 and U.S. government agencies. 

(j) 
       
     Represents notional amounts of derivatives qualifying as guarantees. 

Table of Contents   

Other unfunded commitments to extend credit  
Unfunded commitments to extend credit are
agreements to lend or to purchase securities only
when a customer has complied with predetermined
conditions, and they generally expire on fixed
dates.

Other unfunded commitments to extend credit include
commitments to U.S. domestic states and
municipalities, hospitals and other not-for-profit
entities to provide funding for periodic tenders of
their variable-rate demand bond obligations or
commercial paper. Performance by the Firm is
required in the event that the variable-rate demand
bonds or commercial paper cannot be remarketed to
new investors. The performance required of the Firm
under these agreements is conditional and limited
by certain termination events, which include
bankruptcy and the credit rating downgrade of the
issuer of the variable-rate demand bonds or
commercial paper to below certain predetermined
thresholds. The commitment period is generally one
to three years. The amount of commitments related
to variable-rate demand bonds and commercial paper
of U.S. domestic states and municipalities,
hospitals and not-for-profit entities at December
31, 2008 and 2007, was $23.5 billion and $24.1 billion, respectively.

Included in other unfunded commitments to extend
credit are commitments to investment and
noninvestment grade counterparties in connection
with leveraged acquisitions. These commitments are
dependent on whether the acquisition by the
borrower is successful, tend to be short-term in
nature and, in most cases, are subject to certain
conditions based on the borrower s financial
condition or other factors. Additionally, the Firm
often syndicates portions of the commitment to
other investors, depending on market conditions.
These commitments often contain flexible pricing
features to adjust for changing market conditions
prior to closing. Alternatively, the borrower may
turn to the capital markets for required funding
instead of drawing on the commitment provided by
the Firm, and the commitment may expire unused. As
such, these commitments may not necessarily be
indicative of the Firm s actual risk, and the total
commitment amount may not reflect actual future
cash flow requirements. The amount of commitments
related to leveraged acquisitions at December 31,
2008 and 2007, was $3.6 billion and $8.2 billion,
respectively. For further information, see Note 4
and Note 5 on pages 129 143 and 144 146,
respectively, of this Annual Report.

FIN 45 guarantees  
FIN 45 establishes accounting and disclosure
requirements for guarantees, requiring that a
guarantor recognize, at the inception of a
guarantee, a liability in an amount equal to the
fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing
the guarantee. FIN 45 defines a guarantee as a
contract that contingently requires the guarantor
to pay a guaranteed party, based upon: (a) changes
in an underlying asset, liability or equity
security of the guaranteed party; or (b) a third
party s failure to perform under a specified
agreement. The Firm considers the following
off-balance sheet lending-related arrangements to
be guarantees under FIN 45: certain
asset purchase agreements, standby letters of
credit and financial guarantees, securities lending
indemnifications, certain indemnification
agreements included within third-party contractual
arrangements and certain derivative contracts.
These guarantees are described in further detail
below.

The fair value at inception of the obligation
undertaken when issuing the guarantees and
commitments that qualify under FIN 45 is typically
equal to the net present value of the future amount
of premium receivable under the contract. The Firm
has recorded this amount in other liabilities with
an offsetting entry recorded in other assets. As
cash is received under the contract, it is applied
to the premium receivable recorded in other assets,
and the fair value of the liability recorded at
inception is amortized into income as lending  
deposit-related fees over the life of the guarantee
contract. The amount of the liability related to
FIN 45 guarantees recorded at December 31, 2008 and
2007, excluding the allowance for lending-related commitments and derivative
contracts discussed below, was approximately $535
million and $335 million, respectively.

Asset purchase agreements  
The majority of the Firm s unfunded commitments are
not guarantees as defined in FIN 45, except for
certain asset purchase agreements that are
principally used as a mechanism to provide
liquidity to SPEs, predominantly multi-seller
conduits, as described in Note 17 on pages 177 181
of this Annual Report. The conduit s administrative
agent can require the liquidity provider to perform
under their asset purchase agreement with the
conduit at any time. These agreements may cause the
Firm to purchase an asset from the SPE at an amount
above the asset s then fair value, in effect
providing a guarantee of the initial value of the
reference asset as of the date of the agreement. In
most instances, third-party credit enhancements of
the SPE mitigate the Firm s potential losses on
these agreements.

The carrying value of asset purchase agreements of
$147 million at December 31, 2008, classified in
accounts payable and other liabilities on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets, includes $9 million
for the allowance for lending-related commitments
and $138 million for the FIN 45 guarantee
liability.

Standby letters of credit  
Standby letters of credit ( SBLC ) and financial guarantees
are conditional lending commitments issued by the
Firm to guarantee the performance of a customer to
a third party under certain arrangements, such as
commercial paper facilities, bond financings,
acquisition financings, trade and similar
transactions. The majority of SBLCs mature in 5 years or less; as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, 64%
and 52%, respectively, of these arrangements mature
within three years. The Firm has recourse to
recover from the customer any amounts paid under
these guarantees; in addition, the Firm may hold
cash or other highly liquid collateral to support
these guarantees. The carrying value of standby letters of credit of
$673 million and $590 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively, which is classified in accounts payable and other
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, includes
$276 million and $255 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively for the allowance for lending-related commitments,
and $397 million and $335 million at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively for the FIN 45 guarantee.

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

The following table summarizes the type of facilities under which standby letters of credit and
other letters of credit arrangements are outstanding by the ratings profiles of the Firm s
customers as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. The ratings scale is
representative of the
payment or performance risk to the Firm under the guarantee and is based upon the Firm s internal risk ratings,
which generally correspond to ratings defined by S P and Moody s.

(a) 
       
     Ratings scale is based upon the Firm s internal ratings
which generally correspond to ratings defined by S P and
Moody s. 

(b) 
       
     Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $28.3 billion at
both December 31, 2008 and 2007. 

Derivatives qualifying as guarantees  
In addition to the contracts described above, the
Firm transacts certain derivative contracts that
meet the characteristics of a guarantee under FIN
45. These contracts include written put options
that require the Firm to purchase assets upon
exercise by the option holder at a specified price
by a specified date in the future. The Firm may
enter into written put option contracts in order to
meet client needs, or for trading purposes. The
terms of written put options are typically five
years or less. Derivative guarantees also include
contracts such as stable value derivatives that
require the Firm to make a payment of the
difference between the market value and the book
value of a counterparty s reference portfolio of
assets in the event that market

value is less than book value and certain other
conditions have been met. Stable value derivatives,
commonly referred to as  stable value wraps , are
transacted in order to allow investors to realize
investment returns with less volatility than an
unprotected portfolio, and typically have
a longer-term maturity or allow either party to terminate the
contract subject to contractually specified terms.

Derivative guarantees are recorded on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value in
trading assets and trading liabilities. The total
notional value of the derivatives that the Firm
deems to be guarantees was $83.8 billion and $85.3
billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. The notional value generally
represents the Firm s

Table of Contents   

maximum exposure to derivatives qualifying as
guarantees, although exposure to certain stable
value derivatives is contractually limited to a
substantially lower percentage of the notional
value. The fair value of the contracts reflects the
probability of whether the Firm will be required to
perform under the contract. The fair value related
to derivative guarantees was a derivative
receivable of $184 million and $213 million and a
derivative payable of $5.6 billion and $2.5 billion
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
Firm reduces exposures to these contracts by
entering into offsetting transactions, or by
entering into contracts that hedge the market risk
related to the derivative guarantees.

In
addition to derivative contracts that meet the characteristics of a
guarantee under FIN 45, the Firm is both a purchaser and seller of
credit protection in the credit derivatives market. For a further
discussion of credit derivatives, see Note 32 on pages 202-205 of
this Annual Report.

Securities lending indemnification  
Through the Firm s securities lending program,
customers  securities, via custodial and
non-custodial arrangements, may be lent to third
parties. As part of this program, the Firm provides
an indemnification in the lending agreements which
protects the lender against the failure of the
third-party borrower to return the lent securities
in the event the Firm did not obtain sufficient
collateral. To minimize its liability under these
indemnification agreements, the Firm obtains cash
or other highly liquid collateral with a market
value exceeding 100% of the value of the securities
on loan from the borrower. Collateral is marked to
market daily to help assure that collateralization
is adequate. Additional collateral is called from
the borrower if a shortfall exists, or collateral
may be released to the borrower in the event of
overcollateralization. If a borrower defaults, the
Firm would use the collateral held to purchase
replacement securities in the market or to credit
the lending customer with the cash equivalent
thereof.

Also, as part of this program, the Firm invests
cash collateral received from the borrower in
accordance with approved guidelines.

Based upon historical experience, management
believes that risk of loss under its
indemnification obligations is remote.

Indemnification agreements   general  
In connection with issuing securities to investors,
the Firm may enter into contractual arrangements
with third parties that may require the Firm to
make a payment to them in the event of a change in
tax law or an adverse interpretation of tax law. In
certain cases, the contract also may include a
termination clause, which would allow the Firm to
settle the contract at its fair value in lieu of
making a payment under the indemnification clause.
The Firm may also enter into indemnification
clauses in connection with the licensing of
software to clients ( software licensees ) or when
it sells a business or assets to a third party
( third-party purchasers ), pursuant to which it
indemnifies software licensees for claims of
liability or damages that may occur subsequent to
the licensing of the software, or third-party
purchasers for losses they may incur due to actions
taken by the Firm prior to the sale of the business
or assets. It is difficult to estimate the Firm s
maximum exposure under
these indemnification arrangements, since this
would require an assessment of future changes in
tax law and future claims that may be made against
the Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based
upon historical experience, management expects the
risk of loss to be remote.

Loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications  
 Indemnifications for breaches of representations and warranties  
As part of the Firm s loan sale and securitization
activities, as described in Note 14 and Note 16 on
pages 163 166 and 168 176, respectively, of this
Annual Report, the Firm generally makes
representations and warranties in its loan sale and
securitization agreements that the loans sold meet
certain requirements. These agreements may require
the Firm (including in its roles as a servicer) to
repurchase the loans and/or indemnify the purchaser
of the loans against losses due to any breaches of
such representations or warranties. Generally, the
maximum amount of future payments the Firm would be
required to make for breaches under these
representations and warranties would be equal to
the current amount of assets held by such
securitization-related SPEs plus, in certain
circumstances, accrued and unpaid interest on such
loans and certain expense.

At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Firm had recorded a
repurchase liability of $1.1 billion and $15
million, respectively.

Loans sold with recourse  
The Firm provides servicing for mortgages and
certain commercial lending products on both a
recourse and nonrecourse basis. In nonrecourse
servicing, the principal credit risk to the Firm is
the cost of temporary servicing advances of funds
(i.e., normal servicing advances). In recourse
servicing, the servicer agrees to share credit risk
with the owner of the mortgage loans, such as the
Federal National Mortgage Association or the
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or a private
investor, insurer or guarantor. Losses on
recourse servicing predominantly occur when foreclosure sales
proceeds of the property underlying a defaulted loan are less than
the sum of the outstanding principal balance, plus accrued interest
on the loan and the cost of holding and disposing of the underlying
property. The Firm s loan sale transactions have primarily been
executed on a nonrecourse basis, thereby effectively transferring the risk of
future credit losses to the purchaser of the mortgage-backed
securities issued by the trust. At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the unpaid principal
balance of loans sold with recourse totaled $15.0
billion and $557 million, respectively. The increase in loans
sold with recourse between December 31, 2008 and 2007, was driven
by the Washington Mutual transaction. The
carrying value of the related liability that the
Firm had recorded, which is representative of the
Firm s view of the likelihood it will have to
perform under this guarantee, was $241 million and
zero at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Credit card charge-backs  
Prior to November 1, 2008, the Firm was a partner
with one of the leading companies in electronic
payment services in a joint venture operating under
the name of Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC (the
 joint venture ). The joint venture was formed in
October 2005, as a result of an agreement by the
Firm and First Data Corporation, its joint venture
partner, to integrate the companies  jointly-owned
Chase Merchant Services and Paymentech merchant
businesses. The joint venture provided merchant
processing services in the United States and

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Canada. The dissolution of the joint venture
was completed on November 1, 2008, and JPMorgan
Chase retained approximately 51% of the business
under the Chase Paymentech Solutions name.

Under the rules of Visa USA, Inc., and MasterCard
International, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., is liable
primarily for the amount of each processed credit
card sales transaction that is the subject of a
dispute between a cardmember and a merchant. If a
dispute is resolved in the cardmember s favor,
Chase Paymentech Solutions will (through the
cardmember s issuing bank) credit or refund the
amount to the cardmember and will charge back the
transaction to the merchant. If Chase Paymentech
Solutions is unable to collect the amount from the
merchant, Chase Paymentech Solutions will bear the loss for
the amount credited or refunded to the cardmember.
Chase Paymentech Solutions mitigates this risk by
withholding future settlements, retaining cash
reserve accounts or by obtaining other security.
However, in the unlikely event that: (1) a merchant
ceases operations and is unable to deliver
products, services or a refund; (2) Chase
Paymentech Solutions does not have sufficient
collateral from the merchant to provide customer
refunds; and (3) Chase Paymentech Solutions does
not have sufficient financial resources to provide
customer refunds, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., would
be liable for the amount of the transaction. For
the year ended December 31, 2008, Chase Paymentech
Solutions incurred aggregate credit losses of $13
million on $713.9 billion of aggregate volume
processed, and at December 31, 2008, it held $222
million of collateral. For the year ended December
31, 2007, the joint venture incurred aggregate
credit losses of $10 million on $719.1 billion of
aggregate volume processed, and at December 31,
2007, the joint venture held $779 million of
collateral. The Firm believes that, based upon
historical experience and the collateral held by
Chase Paymentech Solutions, the amount of the
Firm s charge back-related obligations, which is
representative of the payment or performance risk
to the Firm, is immaterial.

Credit card association, exchange and
clearinghouse guarantees  
The Firm holds an equity interest in VISA Inc.
During October 2007, certain VISA-related entities
completed a series of restructuring transactions to
combine their operations, including VISA USA, under
one holding company, VISA Inc. Upon the
restructuring, the Firm s membership interest in
VISA USA was converted into an equity interest in
VISA Inc. VISA Inc. sold shares via an initial
public offering and used a portion of the proceeds
from the offering to redeem a portion of the Firm s
equity interest in Visa Inc. Prior to the
restructuring, VISA USA s by-laws obligated the
Firm upon demand by VISA USA to indemnify VISA USA
for, among other things, litigation obligations of
Visa USA. The accounting for that guarantee was not
subject to fair value accounting under FIN 45,
because the guarantee was in effect prior to the
effective date of FIN 45. Upon the restructuring
event, the Firm s obligation to indemnify Visa Inc.
was limited to certain identified litigations. Such
a limitation is deemed a modification of the
indemnity by-law and, accordingly, is now subject
to the provisions of FIN 45. The value of the
litigation guarantee has been recorded in the
Firm s financial statements based on its fair
value; the net amount recorded (within other
liabilities) did not have a material adverse effect
on the Firm s financial statements.

In addition to Visa, the Firm is a member of other
associations, including several securities and
futures exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the
United States and other countries. Membership in
some of these organizations requires the Firm to
pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by the
organization as a result of the default of another
member. Such obligations vary with different
organizations. These obligations may be limited to
members who dealt with the defaulting member or to
the amount (or a multiple of the amount) of the
Firm s contribution to a member s guarantee fund,
or, in a few cases, the obligation may be
unlimited. It is difficult to estimate the Firm s
maximum exposure under these membership agreements,
since this would require an assessment of future
claims that may be made against the Firm that have
not yet occurred. However, based upon historical
experience, management expects the risk of loss to
be remote.

Residual value guarantee  
In connection with the Bear Stearns merger, the
Firm succeeded to an operating lease arrangement
for the building located at 383 Madison Avenue in
New York City (the  Synthetic Lease ). Under the
terms of the Synthetic Lease, the Firm is obligated
to make periodic payments based on the lessor s
underlying interest costs. The Synthetic Lease
expires on November 1, 2010. Under the terms of the
Synthetic Lease, the Firm has the right to purchase
the building for the amount of the then outstanding
indebtedness of the lessor, or to arrange for the
sale of the building, with the proceeds of the sale
to be used to satisfy the lessor s debt obligation.
If the sale does not generate sufficient proceeds
to satisfy the lessor s debt obligation, the Firm
is required to fund the shortfall up to a maximum
residual value guarantee. As of December 31, 2008,
there was no expected shortfall, and the maximum
residual value guarantee was approximately $670
million. Under a separate ground lease, the land on
which the building is built was leased to an
affiliate of Bear Stearns which, as part of the
Synthetic Lease, assigned this position to the
Synthetic Lease lessor. The owner of the land sued
the Firm, alleging that certain provisions of the
merger agreement violated a  right of first offer 
provision of the ground lease. The Firm s motion to
dismiss the lawsuit was granted, and a judgment of
dismissal was entered on January 12, 2009. The
owner has filed a notice of appeal.

Note 34   Credit risk concentrations 

Concentrations of credit risk arise when a
number of customers are engaged in similar
business activities or activities in the same
geographic region, or when they have similar
economic features that would cause their ability
to meet contractual obligations to be similarly
affected by changes in economic conditions.

JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments
of its credit portfolio to assess potential
concentration risks and to obtain collateral when
deemed necessary. Senior management is
significantly involved in the credit approval and
review process, and risk levels are adjusted as
needed to reflect management s risk tolerance.

In the Firm s wholesale portfolio, risk
concentrations are evaluated primarily by industry
and geographic region, and monitored regularly

Table of Contents   

on both an aggregate portfolio level and
on an individual customer basis. Management of the
Firm s wholesale exposure is accomplished through
loan syndication and participation, loan sales,
securitizations, credit derivatives, use of master
netting agreements, and collateral and other
risk-reduction techniques. In the consumer
portfolio, concentrations are evaluated primarily
by product and by U.S. geographic region, with a
key focus on trends and concentrations at the
portfolio level, where potential risk
concentrations can be remedied through changes in
underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines.

The Firm does not believe exposure to any one loan
product with varying terms (e.g., interest-only
payments for an introductory period, option ARMs)
or exposure to loans with high loan-to-value ratios
would result in a significant concentration of
credit risk. Terms of loan products and collateral
coverage are included in the Firm s assessment when
extending credit and establishing its allowance for
loan losses.

For further information regarding on-balance sheet
credit concentrations by major product and
geography, see Note 14 on pages 163 166 and Note
15 on pages 166 168 of this Annual Report. For
information regarding concentrations of off-balance
sheet lending-related financial instruments by
major product, see Note 33 on pages 206 210 of
this Annual Report.

The table below presents both on- and off-balance sheet wholesale- and consumer-related credit
exposure as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.

(a) 
       
     Primarily represents margin loans to prime and retail brokerage customers which
are included in accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. 

(b) 
       
     Excludes $85.6 billion and $72.7 billion of securitized credit card receivables at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(c) 
       
     Represents lending-related financial instruments. 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Note 35   International operations 

The following table presents income statement
information of JPMorgan Chase by major
international geographic area. The Firm defines
international activities as business transactions
that involve customers residing outside of the
U.S., and the information presented below is based
primarily upon the domicile of the customer or the
location from which the customer relationship is
managed. However, many of the Firm s U.S.
operations serve international businesses.

As the Firm s operations are highly integrated,
estimates and subjective assumptions have been made
to apportion revenue and expense between U.S. and
international operations. These estimates and
assumptions are consistent with the allocations
used for the Firm s segment reporting as set forth
in Note 37 on pages 214 215 of this Annual Report.

The Firm s long-lived assets for the periods
presented are not considered by management to be
significant in relation to total assets. The
majority of the Firm s long-lived assets are
located in the United States.

(a) 
       
     Revenue is composed of net interest income and noninterest revenue. 

(b) 
       
     Expense is composed of noninterest expense and provision for credit losses. 

Table of Contents   

Note 36   Parent company 

Parent company   statements of income 

(a) 
       
     Subsidiaries include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities
( issuer trusts ). As a result of FIN 46R, the Parent
Company deconsolidated these trusts in 2003.
The Parent Company received dividends of $15 million, $18 million and $23 million from the issuer
trusts in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. For further discussion on these issuer
trusts, see Note 23 on page 191 of this Annual Report. 

(b) 
       
     Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect the pushdown of certain litigation expense,
which had previously been recorded at the parent company level, to the bank
subsidiary level.
There was no change to net income as the increase in Parent Company profitability was
offset by a decrease in the net income of subsidiaries. 

(c) 
       
     At December 31, 2008, debt that contractually matures in 2009 through 2013 totaled
$25.8 billion, $28.6 billion, $29.3 billion, $25.3 billion and $11.8 billion,
respectively. 

(d) 
       
     Includes $39.8 billion of Bear Stearns  long-term debt assumed by JPMorgan Chase  
Co. 

(e) 
       
     Includes the conversion of Bear Stearns  preferred stock into JPMorgan Chase
preferred stock. 

Table of Contents   

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

Note 37   Business segments 

JPMorgan Chase is organized into six major
reportable business segments   Investment Bank,
Retail Financial Services, Card Services,
Commercial Banking, Treasury   Securities Services
and Asset Management, as well as a
Corporate/Private Equity segment. The segments are
based upon the products and services provided or
the type of

customer served, and they reflect the manner in
which financial information is currently evaluated
by management. Results of these lines of business
are presented on a managed basis. For a definition
of managed basis, see Explanation and
Reconciliation of the Firm s use of non-GAAP
financial measures, on pages 38 39 of this Annual
Report. For a further discussion concerning
JPMorgan Chase s business segments, see Business
segment results on pages 40 41 of this Annual
Report.

Segment results 

The following table provides a summary of the Firm s segment results for 2008, 2007 and 2006 on a
managed basis. The impact of credit card securitizations and tax-equivalent adjustments have been
included in Reconciling items so that the total Firm results are on a reported basis.

Segment results and reconciliation  (a)  (table continued on next page)

(a) 
       
     In addition to analyzing the Firm s results on a reported basis, management
reviews the Firm s results and the results of the lines of business on a  managed basis, 
which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm s definition of managed basis starts with
the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that do not have any
impact on net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole. 

(b) 
       
     TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed
within IB credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS. 

(c) 
       
     Includes merger costs which are reported in the Corporate/Private Equity
segment. Merger costs attributed to the business segments for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as
follows. 

(d) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of
Washington Mutual from the FDIC for $1.9 billion. The fair value of the net assets
acquired exceeded the purchase price, which resulted in negative goodwill. In accordance
with SFAS 141, nonfinancial assets that are not held-for-sale, such as premises and
equipment and other intangibles, acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction were
written down against that negative goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained after
writing down nonfinancial assets was recognized as an extraordinary gain. 

(e) 
       
     Included a $1.5 billion charge to conform Washington Mutual s loan loss reserve
to JPMorgan Chase s allowance methodology. 

Table of Contents   

Line of business equity increased during the
second quarter of 2008 in IB and AM due to the Bear
Stearns merger and, for AM, the purchase of the
additional equity interest in Highbridge. At the
end of the third quarter of 2008, equity was
increased for each line of business with a view
toward the future implementation of the new Basel
II capital rules. In addition, equity allocated to
RFS, CS and CB was increased as a result of the
Washington Mutual transaction.

Discontinued operations  
As a result of the transaction with The Bank of New
York, selected corporate trust businesses have been
transferred from TSS to the Corporate/Private
Equity segment and reported in discontinued
operations for all periods reported.

(table continued from previous page)

(f) 
       
     In November 2008, the Firm transferred $5.8 billion of
higher quality credit card loans from the legacy Chase portfolio to a
securitization trust previously established by Washington Mutual
( the Trust ). As a result of converting higher credit
quality Chase-originated on-book receivables to the Trust s
seller s interest which has a higher overall loss rate
reflective of the total assets within the Trust, approximately
$400 million of incremental provision expense was recorded
during the fourth quarter. This incremental provision expense was
recorded in the Corporate segment as the action related to the
acquisition of Washington Mutual s banking operations. For
further discussion of credit card securitizations, see Note 16 on
pages 169-170 of this Annual Report. 

(g) 
       
     Managed results for credit card exclude the impact of CS
securitizations on total net revenue, provision for credit losses and average assets, as
JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance sheet in
evaluating the credit performance of the entire managed credit card portfolio as
operations are funded, and decisions are made about allocating resources such as
employees and capital, based upon managed information. These adjustments are eliminated in
reconciling items to arrive at the Firm s reported U.S. GAAP results. The related
securitization adjustments were as follows. 

(h) 
       
     Segment managed results reflect revenue on a tax-equivalent basis with the
corresponding income tax impact recorded within income tax expense
(benefit). These adjustments are
eliminated in reconciling items to arrive at the Firm s reported U.S. GAAP results.
Tax-equivalent adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as
follows. 

(i) 
       
     Ratio is based upon net income. 

Table of Contents   

Supplementary information 

Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited) 

(a) 
       
     The Firm adopted SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2007. See Note 4 on pages
129 143 of this Annual Report for additional information. 

(b) 
       
     For a discussion of accounting conformity, see provision for
credit losses on page 35 and consumer credit portfolio
discussion on page 91. 

(c) 
       
     For a discussion of the extraordinary gain, see Note 2 on pages 123 128. 

(d) 
       
     JPMorgan Chase s common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,
the London Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The high, low and closing
prices of JPMorgan Chase s common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite
Transaction Tape. 

(e) 
       
     Excludes purchased wholesale loans held-for-sale. 

(f) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the policy for classifying subprime mortgage
and home equity loans as nonperforming was changed to conform to all other home lending
products. Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect this change. 

(g) 
       
     End-of-period and average loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were
excluded when calculating the allowance coverage ratios and net charge-off rates,
respectively. 

(h) 
       
     Common equivalent shares have been excluded from the
computation of diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of
2008, as the effect on income (loss) before extraordinary gain would
be antidilutive. 

(i) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. For additional information on these
transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128 of this Annual Report. 

Table of Contents   

Supplementary information 

Selected annual financial data (unaudited) 

(a) 
       
     The Firm adopted SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2007. See Note 4 on pages
129 143 of this Annual Report for additional information. 

(b) 
       
     For a discussion of accounting conformity, see provision for
credit losses on page 35 and consumer credit portfolio
discussion on page 91. 

(c) 
       
     On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase   Co. completed the exchange of selected
corporate trust businesses for the consumer, business banking and middle-market banking
businesses of The Bank of New York Company Inc. The results of operations of these
corporate trust businesses are reported as discontinued operations for each period prior
to 2007. 

(d) 
       
     For a discussion of the extraordinary gain, see Note 2 on pages 123 128. 

(e) 
       
     JPMorgan Chase s common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,
the London Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The high, low and closing prices
of JPMorgan Chase s common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite
Transaction Tape. 

(f) 
       
     Excludes purchased wholesale loans held-for-sale. 

(g) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the policy for classifying subprime mortgage
and home equity loans as nonperforming was changed to conform to all other home lending
products. Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect this change.
Periods prior to 2007 have not been revised as the impact was
not material. 

(h) 
       
     End-of-period and average loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were
excluded when calculating the allowance coverage ratios and net charge-off rates,
respectively. 

(i) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. For additional information on these
transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128 of this Annual Report. 

(j) 
       
     On July 1, 2004, Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase.
Accordingly, 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm s results and six months
of heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 

Table of Contents   

Glossary of terms 

ACH:  Automated Clearing House.

Advised lines of credit:  An authorization which
specifies the maximum amount of a credit facility
the Firm has made available to an obligor on a
revolving but non-binding basis. The borrower
receives written or oral advice of this facility.
The Firm may cancel this facility at any time.

AICPA:  American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

AICPA Statement of Position ( SOP ) 03-3: 
 Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities
Acquired in a Transfer. 

AICPA SOP 07-1:   Clarification of the Scope of the
Audit and Accounting Guide Investment Companies
and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity
Method Investors for Investments in Investment
Companies. 

AICPA SOP 98-1:   Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for
Internal Use. 

Alternative assets:  The following types of assets
constitute alternative investments   hedge funds,
currency, real estate and private equity.

APB 18:  Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
18,  The Equity Method of Accounting for
Investments in Common Stock. 

APB 25:  Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. 

Assets under management:  Represent assets actively
managed by Asset Management on behalf of
Institutional, Retail, Private Banking, Private
Wealth Management and Bear Stearns Brokerage
clients. Excludes assets managed by American
Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a
43% ownership interest as of December 31, 2008.

Assets under supervision:  Represent assets under
management as well as custody, brokerage,
administration and deposit accounts.

Average managed assets:  Refers to total assets on
the Firm s Consolidated Balance Sheets plus
credit card receivables that have been
securitized.

Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs: 
Represents the interest of third-party holders of
debt/equity securities, or other obligations,
issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates
under FIN 46R. The underlying obligations of the
VIEs consist of short-term borrowings, commercial
paper and long-term debt. The related assets
consist of trading assets, available-for-sale
securities, loans and other assets.

Benefit obligation:  Refers to the projected benefit
obligation for pension plans and the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation for OPEB plans.

Combined effective loan-to-value ratio:  For
residential real estate loans, an indicator of
how much equity a borrower has in a secured
borrowing based on current estimates of the value
of the collateral and considering all lien
positions related to the property.

Contractual credit card charge-off:  In accordance
with the Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council policy, credit card loans are
charged off by the end of the month in which the
account becomes 180 days past due or within 60
days from receiving notification of the filing of
bankruptcy, whichever is earlier.

Credit card securitizations:  Card Services  managed
results excludes the impact of credit card
securitizations on total net revenue, the provision
for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan
receivables. Through securitization, the Firm
transforms a portion of its credit card receivables
into securities, which are sold to investors. The
credit card receivables are removed from the
Consolidated Balance Sheets through the transfer of
the receivables to a trust, and through the sale of
undivided interests to investors that entitle the
investors to specific cash flows generated from the
credit card receivables. The Firm retains the
remaining undivided interests as seller s
interests, which are recorded in loans on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. A gain or loss on the
sale of credit card receivables to investors is
recorded in other income. Securitization also
affects the Firm s Consolidated Statements of
Income, as the aggregate amount of interest income,
certain fee revenue and recoveries that is in
excess of the aggregate amount of interest paid to
investors, gross credit losses and other trust
expense related to the securitized receivables are
reclassified into credit card income in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Credit derivatives:  Contractual agreements that
provide protection against a credit event on one or
more referenced credits. The nature of a credit
event is established by the protection buyer and
protection seller at the inception of a
transaction, and such events include bankruptcy,
insolvency or failure to meet payment obligations
when due. The buyer of the credit derivative pays a
periodic fee in return for a payment by the
protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a
credit event.

Credit cycle:  A period of time over which credit
quality improves, deteriorates and then improves
again. The duration of a credit cycle can vary
from a couple of years to several years.

Deposit margin:  Represents net interest income
on deposits expressed as a percentage of
average deposits.

Discontinued operations:  A component of an entity
that is classified as held-for-sale or that has
been disposed of from ongoing operations in its
entirety or piecemeal, and for which the entity
will not have any
significant, continuing involvement. A discontinued
operation may be a separate major business segment,
a component of a major business segment or a
geographical area of operations of the entity that
can be separately distinguished operationally and
for financial reporting purposes.

EITF:  Emerging Issues Task Force.

EITF Issue 06-11:   Accounting for Income Tax
Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment
Awards. 

EITF Issue 02-3:   Issues Involved in Accounting for
Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and
Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk
Management Activities. 

Table of Contents   

Glossary of terms 

EITF Issue 99-20:   Recognition of Interest
Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained
Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial
Assets. 

FASB:  Financial Accounting Standards Board.

FICO:  Fair Isaac Corporation.

FIN 39:  FASB Interpretation No. 39,  Offsetting of
Amounts Related to Certain Contracts   an
interpretation of APB Opinion No. 10 and FASB
Statement No. 105. 

FIN 41:  FASB Interpretation No. 41,  Offsetting of
Amounts Related to Certain Repurchase and Reverse
Repurchase Agreements   an interpretation of APB
Opinion No. 10 and a Modification of FASB
Interpretation No. 39. 

FIN 45:  FASB Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for
Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others   an interpretation of
FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and a
rescission of FASB
Interpretation No. 34. 

FIN 46R:  FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised
December 2003),  Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities   an interpretation of ARB
No. 51. 

FIN 47:  FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting
for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. 

FIN 48:  FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. 

Forward points:  Represents the interest rate
differential between two currencies, which is
either added to or subtracted from the current
exchange rate (i.e.,  spot rate ) to determine the
forward exchange rate.

FSP:  FASB Staff Position.

FSP FAS 123(R)-3:   Transition Election Related to
Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based
Payment Awards. 

FSP FAS 132(R)-1:   Employers  Disclosures about
Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets. 

FSP FAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4:   Disclosures about
Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An
Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB
Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 161. 

FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8:   Disclosures by
Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of
Financial Assets and Interests in Variable
Interest Entities. 

FSP EITF 03-6-1:   Determining Whether
Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment
Transactions Are Participating Securities. 

FSP FAS 140-3:   Accounting for Transfers of
Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing
Transactions. 

FSP FIN 39-1:   Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39. 

FSP FIN 46(R)-7:   Application of FASB
Interpretation No. 46(R) to Investment Companies. 

Interchange income:  A fee that is paid to a
credit card issuer in the clearing and settlement
of a sales or cash advance transaction.

Interests in purchased receivables:  Represent an
ownership interest in cash flows of an underlying
pool of receivables transferred by a third-party
seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity, generally a
trust.

Investment-grade:  An indication of credit quality
based upon JPMorgan Chase s internal risk
assessment system.  Investment-grade  generally
represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a
 BBB- / Baa3  or better, as defined by independent
rating agencies.

Managed basis:  A non-GAAP presentation of financial
results that includes reclassifications related to
credit card securitizations and to present revenue
on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Management
uses this non-GAAP financial measure at the segment
level, because it believes this provides
information to enable investors to understand the
underlying operational performance and trends of
the particular business segment and facilitates a
comparison of the business segment with the
performance of competitors.

Managed credit card receivables:  Refers to credit
card receivables on the Firm s Consolidated
Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that
have been securitized.

Mark-to-market exposure:  A measure, at a point in
time, of the value of a derivative or foreign
exchange contract in the open market. When the
mark-to-market value is positive, it indicates the
counterparty owes JPMorgan Chase and, therefore,
creates a repayment risk for the Firm. When the
mark-to-market value is negative, JPMorgan Chase
owes the counterparty; in
this situation, the Firm does not have repayment
risk.

Master netting agreement:  An agreement between two
counterparties that have multiple derivative
contracts with each other that provides for the net
settlement of all contracts through a single
payment, in a single currency, in the event of
default on or termination of any one contract. See
FIN 39.

Mortgage product types: 

Alt-A  
Alt-A loans are generally higher in credit quality
than subprime loans but have characteristics that
would disqualify the borrower from a traditional
prime loan. Alt-A lending characteristics may
include one or more of the following: (i) limited
documentation; (ii) high combined-loan-to-value
( CLTV ) ratio; (iii) loans secured by non-owner
occupied properties; or (iv) debt-to-income ratio
above normal limits. Perhaps the most important
characteristic is limited documentation. A
substantial proportion of traditional Alt-A loans
are those where a borrower does not provide
complete documentation of his or her assets or the
amount or source of his or her income.

Option ARMs  
The option ARM home loan product is an
adjustable-rate mortgage loan that provides the
borrower with the option each month to make

Table of Contents   

Glossary of terms 

a fully amortizing, interest-only, or minimum
payment. The minimum payment on an option ARM loan
is based upon the interest rate charged during the
introductory period. This introductory rate has
usually been significantly below the fully indexed
rate. The fully indexed rate is calculated using an
index rate plus a margin. Once the introductory
period ends, the contractual interest rate charged
on the loan increases to the fully indexed rate and
adjusts monthly to reflect movements in the index.
The minimum payment is typically insufficient to
cover interest accrued in the prior month, and any
unpaid interest is deferred and added to the
principal balance of the loan.

Prime  
Prime mortgage loans generally have low default
risk and are made to borrowers with good credit
records and a monthly income that is at least
three to four times greater than their monthly
housing expense (mortgage payments plus taxes and
other debt payments). These borrowers provide full
documentation and generally have reliable payment
histories.

Subprime  
Subprime loans are designed for customers with one
or more high risk characteristics, including but
not limited to: (i) unreliable or poor payment
histories; (ii) high loan-to-value ( LTV ) ratio of
greater than 80% (without borrower-paid mortgage
insurance); (iii) high debt-to-income ratio; (iv)
the occupancy type for the loan is
other than the borrower s primary residence; or (v)
a history of delinquencies or late payments on the
loan.

MSR risk management revenue:  Includes changes in
MSR asset fair value due to inputs or assumptions
in model and derivative valuation adjustments.

Material legal proceedings:  Refers to certain
specific litigation originally discussed in the
section  Legal Proceedings  in the Firm s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2002. Of such legal proceedings, some lawsuits
related to Enron and the IPO allocation allegations
remain outstanding as of the date of this Annual
Report, as discussed in Part I, Item 3, legal
proceedings in the Firm s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, to which
reference is hereby made; other such legal
proceedings have been resolved.

NA:  Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.

Net yield on interest-earning assets:  The average
rate for interest-earning assets less the average
rate paid for all sources of funds.

NM:  Not meaningful.

Nonconforming mortgage loans:  Mortgage loans that
do not meet the requirements for sale to U.S.
government agencies and U.S. government sponsored
enterprises. These requirements include limits on
loan-to-value ratios, loan terms, loan amounts,
down payments, borrower creditworthiness and other
requirements.

OPEB:  Other postretirement employee benefits.

Overhead ratio:  Noninterest expense as a
percentage of total net revenue.

Personal bankers:  Retail branch office personnel
who acquire, retain and expand new and existing
customer relationships by assessing customer needs
and recommending and selling appropriate banking
products and services.

Portfolio activity:  Describes changes to the risk
profile of existing lending-related exposures and
their impact on the allowance for credit losses
from changes in customer profiles and inputs used
to estimate the allowances.

Principal transactions:  Realized and unrealized
gains and losses from trading activities (including
physical commodities inventories that are accounted
for at the lower of cost or fair value) and changes
in fair value associated with financial instruments
held by the Investment Bank for which the SFAS 159
fair value option was elected. Principal
transactions revenue also include private equity
gains and losses.

Purchased credit-impaired loans:  Acquired loans
deemed to be credit-impaired under SOP 03-3. SOP
03-3 allows purchasers to aggregate
credit-impaired loans acquired in the same fiscal
quarter into one or more pools, provided that the
loans have common risk characteristics (e.g., FICO
score, geographic location).
A pool is then accounted for as a single asset
with a single composite interest rate and an
aggregate expectation of cash flows. Wholesale
loans were determined to be credit-impaired if
they met the definition of an impaired loan under
SFAS 114 at the acquisition date. Consumer loans
are determined to be purchased credit-impaired
based upon specific risk characteristics of the
loan, including product type, loan-to-value
ratios, FICO scores, and past due status.

Receivables from customers:  Primarily represents
margin loans to prime and retail brokerage
customers which are included in accrued interest
and accounts receivable on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets for the wholesale lines of
business.

REMIC:  Investment vehicles that hold commercial
and residential mortgages in trust and issues
securities representing an undivided interest in
these mortgages. A REMIC, which can be a
corporation, trust, association, or partnership,
assembles mortgages into pools and issues
pass-through certificates, multiclass bonds
similar to a collateralized mortgage obligation
( CMO ) or other securities to investors in the
secondary mortgage market.

Reported basis:  Financial statements prepared under
accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ). The
reported basis includes the impact of credit card
securitizations but excludes the impact of
taxable-equivalent adjustments.

Return on common equity less goodwill:  Represents
net income applicable to common stock divided by
total average common equity (net of goodwill). The
Firm uses return on common equity less goodwill, a
non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the
operating performance of the Firm. The Firm also
utilizes this measure to facilitate operating
comparisons to other competitors.

Risk layered loans:  Loans with multiple high risk elements.

Table of Contents   

SAB:  Staff Accounting Bulletin.

SAB 105:   Application of Accounting
Principles to Loan Commitments. 

SAB 109:   Written Loan Commitments Recorded at
Fair Value Through Earnings. 

Sales specialists:  Retail branch office personnel
who specialize in the marketing of a single
product, including mortgages, investments, and
business banking, by partnering with the personal
bankers.

SFAS:  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.

SFAS 5:   Accounting for Contingencies. 

SFAS 13:   Accounting for Leases. 

SFAS 52:   Foreign Currency Translation. 

SFAS 87:   Employers  Accounting for Pensions. 

SFAS 88:   Employers  Accounting for Settlements
and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans
and for Termination Benefits. 

SFAS 106:   Employers  Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions. 

SFAS 107:   Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments. 

SFAS 109:   Accounting for Income Taxes. 

SFAS 114:   Accounting by Creditors for Impairment
of a Loan   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5
and 15. 

SFAS 115:   Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities. 

SFAS 123:   Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation. 
    SFAS 123R:   Share-Based
Payment. 
   SFAS 128:   Earnings per Share. 

SFAS 133:   Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities. 

SFAS 138:   Accounting for Certain Derivative
Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities   an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. 

SFAS 140:   Accounting for Transfers and Servicing
of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities   a replacement of FASB Statement
No. 125. 

SFAS 141:   Business Combinations. 

SFAS 141R:   Business Combinations. 

SFAS 142:   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. 

SFAS 143:   Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. 

SFAS 149:   Amendment of Statement No. 133 on
Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities. 

SFAS 155:   Accounting for Certain Hybrid
Financial Instruments   an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 133 and 140. 

SFAS 156:   Accounting for Servicing of
Financial Assets   an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 140. 

SFAS 157:   Fair Value Measurements. 

SFAS 158:   Employers  Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  
an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106,
and 132(R). 

SFAS 159:   The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities   Including an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. 

SFAS 160:   Noncontrolling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements   an
amendment of ARB No. 51. 

SFAS 161:   Disclosures About Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities   an amendment
of FASB Statement No. 133. 

Stress testing:  A scenario that measures market
risk under unlikely but plausible events in
abnormal markets.

Unaudited:  Financial statements and information
that have not been subjected to auditing
procedures sufficient to permit an independent
certified public accountant to express an
opinion.

U.S. GAAP:  Accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America.

U.S. government and federal agency obligations: 
Obligations of the U.S. government or an
instrumentality of the U.S. government whose
obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as
to the timely payment of principal and interest by
the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.

U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations: 

Obligations of agencies originally established or
chartered by the U.S. government to serve public
purposes as specified by the U.S.
Congress; these obligations are not explicitly
guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal
and interest by the full faith and credit of the
U.S. government.

Value-at-risk ( VaR ):  A measure of the dollar
amount of potential loss from adverse market moves
in an ordinary market environment.

Table of Contents   

Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders  equity; 
interest rates and interest differentials 

Consolidated average balance sheet, interest and rates 

Provided below is a summary of JPMorgan Chase s
consolidated average balances, interest rates and
interest differentials on a taxable-equivalent
basis for the years 2006 through 2008. Income
computed on a taxable-equivalent basis is the
income reported in the

Consolidated Statements of Income, adjusted to make
income and earnings yields on assets exempt from
income taxes (primarily federal taxes) comparable
with other taxable income. The incremental tax rate
used for calculating the taxable-equivalent
adjustment was

(Table continued on next page)

(a) 
       
     Includes margin loans and the Firm s investment in asset-backed commercial paper
under the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston s AML facility. 

(b) 
       
     For purposes of the consolidated average balance sheet for assets and liabilities
transferred to discontinued operations, JPMorgan Chase used federal funds sold interest
income as a reasonable estimate of the earnings on corporate trust deposits; therefore,
JPMorgan Chase transferred to assets of discontinued operations held-for-sale average
federal funds sold, along with the related interest income earned, and transferred to
liabilities of discontinued operations held-for-sale average corporate trust deposits. 

(c) 
       
     Includes securities sold but not yet purchased, brokerage customer payables and
advances from federal home loan banks. 

(d) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the
banking operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008,
the Bear Stearns merger was consummated. Each of
these transactions was accounted for as a purchase and their
respective results of operations are included in the Firm s results
from each respective transaction date. For additional information on
these transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128. 

(e) 
       
     The ratio of average stockholders  equity to average assets was 7.7% for 2008,
8.2% for 2007 and 8.4% for 2006. The return on average stockholders  equity was 4.1% for
2008, 12.9% for 2007 and 13.0% for 2006. 

(f) 
       
     Fees and commissions on loans included in loan interest amounted to $2.0 billion
in 2008, $1.7 billion in 2007 and $1.2 billion in 2006. 

(g) 
       
     The annualized rate for available-for-sale securities based on amortized cost was
5.17% in 2008, 5.64% in 2007, and 5.49% in 2006, and does not give effect to changes in
fair value that are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss). 

Table of Contents   

approximately 40% in 2008, 2007 and 2006. A
substantial portion of JPMorgan Chase s securities
are taxable.

Within the Consolidated average balance sheets,
interest and rates summary, the principal amounts
of nonaccrual loans have been

included in the average loan balances used to
determine the average interest rate earned on
loans. For additional information on nonaccrual
loans, including interest accrued, see Note 14 on
pages 163 166.

(Continuation of table)

Table of Contents   

Interest rates and interest differential analysis of net interest income   U.S. and
non-U.S. 

Presented below is a summary of interest rates
and interest differentials segregated between U.S.
and non-U.S. operations for the years 2006 through
2008. The segregation of U.S. and non-U.S.
components

is based on the location of the office
recording the transaction. Intracompany funding
generally comprises dollar-denominated deposits
originated in various locations that are centrally
managed

(Table continued on next page)

(a) 
       
     Represents the amount of noninterest-bearing liabilities funding interest-earning
assets. 

(b) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of
Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear Stearns
merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was accounted for as a purchase and their
respective results of operations are included in the Firm s results from each respective
transaction date. For additional information on these transactions, see Note 2 on pages
123 128. 

Table of Contents   

by JPMorgan Chase s Treasury unit. U.S. net interest income was
$31.7 billion in 2008, an increase of $10.6
billion from the prior year. Net interest income
from non-U.S. operations was $7.7 billion for
2008, an increase of $1.9 billion from $5.8
billion in 2007.

(Continuation of table)

For further information, see the  Net interest
income  discussion in Consolidated Results of
Operations on page 34.

Table of Contents   

Changes in net interest income, volume and rate analysis 

The table below presents an analysis of the effect on net interest income of volume and rate
changes for the periods 2008 versus 2007 and 2007 versus 2006. In this analysis, the change due to
the volume/rate variance has been allocated to volume.

Table of Contents   

Securities portfolio 

The table below presents the amortized cost, estimated fair value and average yield (including
the impact of related derivatives) of JPMorgan Chase s securities by range of contractual maturity
and type of security.

Maturity schedule of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities 

(a) 
       
     The average yield was based on amortized cost balances at the end of the year and
does not give effect to changes in fair value that are reflected in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). Yields are derived by dividing interest income (including the
effect of related derivatives on available-for-sale securities and the amortization of
premiums and accretion of discounts) by total amortized cost. Taxable-equivalent yields
are used where applicable. 

(b) 
       
     Includes certificates of deposit, debt securities issued by non-U.S. governments,
corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and other
debt and equity securities. 

(c) 
       
     For the amortized cost of the above categories of securities at December 31, 2007,
see Note 12 on page 159. At December 31, 2006, the amortized cost of U.S. government and
federal agency obligations was $2.5 billion, U.S. government-sponsored enterprise
obligations was $75.4 billion and other available-for-sale securities was $14.0 billion.
At December 31, 2006, the amortized cost of U.S. government and federal agency obligations
and U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations held-to-maturity securities was $58
million. There were no other held-to-maturity securities at December 31, 2006. 

(d) 
       
     Securities with no stated maturity are included with securities with a contractual
maturity of ten years or more. Substantially all of JPMorgan Chase s mortgaged-backed
securities ( MBSs ) and collateralized mortgage obligations ( CMOs ) are due in ten years
or more based on contractual maturity. The estimated duration, which reflects anticipated
future prepayments based on a consensus of dealers in the market, is approximately four
years for MBSs and CMOs. 

U.S. government-sponsored enterprises were the
only issuers whose securities exceeded 10% of
JPMorgan Chase s total stockholders  equity at
December 31, 2008.

For a further discussion of JPMorgan Chase s
securities portfolios, see Note 12 on pages
158 162.

Table of Contents   

Loan portfolio 

The table below presents loans with the line of business basis that is presented in Credit Risk
Management on pages 82, 83 and 92, and in Note 14 on page 164, at the periods indicated. Prior
periods have been changed to reflect this presentation.

(a) 
       
     Loans are presented net of unearned income and net deferred loan fees of $694
million, $1.0 billion, $1.3 billion, $3.0 billion and $4.1 billion at December 31, 2008,
2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

(b) 
       
     As a result of the adoption of SFAS 159, at January 1, 2007, certain loans are
accounted for at fair value and reported in trading assets and therefore, such loans are
no longer included in loans at December 31, 2007. 

(c) 
       
     The reporting categories have been modified to reflect the industry categories and client domicile consistent with the reporting provided in the credit risk management section
 on pages 80-99. Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation. 

Table of Contents   

Maturities and sensitivity to changes in interest rates  
The table below shows, at December 31, 2008, the maturity of the
wholesale loan portfolio, and the distribution between fixed
and floating interest rates based upon the stated terms of the wholesale loan agreements. The
current view has been modified to show the portfolio on the same basis that is presented in Credit Risk
Management on pages 82, 83, and 92, and in Note 14 on page 164. The table does not include the
impact of derivative instruments.

(a) 
       
     Includes demand loans and overdrafts. 

Table of Contents   

Risk
elements   
The following table sets forth nonperforming assets and contractually
past-due assets, with the presentation in Credit Risk Management on pages
82, 83 and 92. Periods prior to 2007 have been changed to reflect this presentation.

(a) 
       
     Excludes wholesale loans held-for-sale purchased as part of the Investment Bank s
proprietary activities. 

(b) 
       
     Represents accruing loans past-due 90 days or more as to principal and interest,
which are not characterized as nonperforming loans. 

(c) 
       
     Represents troubled debt restructured loans for which concessions, such as the
reduction of interest rates or the deferral of interest or principal payments, have been
granted as a result of a deterioration in the borrowers  financial condition as defined in
SFAS 15,  Accounting by Debtors and Creditors for Troubled Debt Restructurings . 

(d) 
       
     The reporting categories have been modified to reflect the industry categories consistent with the reporting provided in the credit risk management section on pages 80-99.
Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation. 

(e) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the policy for classifying
subprime mortgage and home equity loans as nonperforming was changed
to conform to all other home lending products. Amounts for 2007 have
been revised to reflect this change. Periods prior to 2007 have not
been revised as the impact was not material. 

For a discussion of nonperforming loans and past-due loan accounting policies, see Credit Risk
Management on pages 80 99, and Note 14 on pages 163 166.

Table of Contents   

Impact of nonperforming loans on interest income  
The negative impact on interest income from nonperforming loans represents the difference between
the amount of interest income that would have been recorded on such nonperforming loans according
to their contractual terms had they been performing and the amount of interest that actually was
recognized on a cash basis. The following table sets forth this data for the years specified. The
increases in both 2008 and 2007 from the respective prior years in total negative impact on
interest income was primarily driven by the increases in nonperforming loans.

(a) 
       
     The reporting categories have been modified to reflect the industry categories consistent with the reporting provided in the credit risk management section on pages 80-99.
Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation. 

(b) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the policy for classifying subprime mortgage
and home equity loans as nonperforming was changed to conform to all other home lending
products. Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect this change.
Amounts for 2006 have not been revised as the impact was not
material. 

Table of Contents   

Cross-border outstandings  
Cross-border disclosure is based upon the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council s ( FFIEC )
guidelines governing the determination of
cross-border risk. Based on FFIEC guidelines,
beginning in 2006 securities purchased under resale
agreements are allocated to a country based upon
the domicile of the counterparty. Additionally,
local foreign office commitments are included in
commitments; previously they were excluded from
commitments.

The following table lists all countries in which
JPMorgan Chase s cross-border outstandings exceed
0.75% of consolidated assets as of the dates
specified. The disclosure includes certain
exposures that are not required under the
disclosure requirements of the SEC. The most
significant differences between the FFIEC and SEC

methodologies are: the FFIEC methodology includes
mark-to-market exposures of foreign exchange and
derivatives; net local country assets are reduced
by local country liabilities (regardless of
currency denomination); and securities purchased
under resale agreements are reported based on the
counterparty, without regard to the underlying
security collateral.

JPMorgan Chase s total cross-border exposure tends
to fluctuate greatly, and the amount of exposure
at year-end tends to be a function of timing
rather than representing a consistent trend. For a
further discussion of JPMorgan Chase s emerging
markets cross-border exposure, see Emerging
markets country exposure on pages 90 91.

Cross-border outstandings exceeding 0.75% of total assets 

(a) 
       
     Consists primarily of commercial and industrial. 

(b) 
       
     Outstandings includes loans and accrued interest receivable, interest-bearing
deposits with banks, acceptances, resale agreements, other monetary assets, cross-border
trading debt and equity instruments, mark-to-market exposure of foreign exchange and
derivative contracts and local country assets, net of local country liabilities. The
amounts associated with foreign exchange and derivative contracts are presented after
taking into account the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements. 

(c) 
       
     Commitments include outstanding letters of credit, undrawn commitments to extend
credit and the notional value of credit derivatives where JPMorgan Chase is a protection
seller. 

Table of Contents   

Summary of loan and lending-related commitments loss experience 

The tables below summarize the changes in the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for
lending-related commitments, during the periods indicated. For a further discussion, see Allowance
for credit losses on pages 96 99, and Note 15 on pages 166 168.

Allowance for loan losses 

(a) 
       
     The 2008 amount relates to the Washington Mutual transaction and 2004 amount relates
to the merger with Bank One. 

(b) 
       
     While the provision for loan losses increased during 2004 and 2005 due to the July
2004 Bank One merger, the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans
declined from 2004 through 2006 as a result of a relatively benign credit environment.
Deteriorating credit conditions in 2007 and 2008, primarily within
consumer lending, resulted in increasing losses and correspondingly higher loan loss provisions for those
periods. For a more detailed discussion of the 2006 through 2008 provision for credit
losses, see Provision for Credit Losses on page 99. 

(c) 
       
     Primarily relates to the transfer of the allowance for accrued interest and fees
on reported and securitized credit card loans in 2004. 

(d) 
       
     On July 1, 2004, Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase.
Accordingly, 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm s results and six months
of heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 

(e) 
       
     The reporting categories have been modified to reflect the industry categories consistent with the reporting provided in the credit risk management section on pages 80-99.
Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation.

Allowance for lending-related commitments 

(a) 
       
     The 2008 amount relates to the Washington Mutual transaction and 2004 amount relates
to the merger with Bank One. 

(b) 
       
     On July 1, 2004, Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase.
Accordingly, 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm s results and six months
of heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 

Table of Contents   

Loan loss analysis 

(a) 
       
     There were no net charge-offs (recoveries) on lending-related commitments in 2008,
2007, 2006, 2005 or 2004. 

(b) 
       
     Excludes loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value. 

(c) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. For additional information on these
transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128. 

(d) 
       
     During the second quarter of 2008, the policy for classifying subprime mortgage
and home equity loans as nonperforming was changed to conform to all other home lending
products. Amounts for 2007 have been revised to reflect this change.
Periods prior to 2007 have not been revised as the impact was
not material. 

(e) 
       
     On July 1, 2004, Bank One Corporation merged with and
into JPMorgan Chase. Accordingly, 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm s results and six months of
heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 

Deposits 

The following table provides a summary of the average balances and average interest rates of
JPMorgan Chase s various deposits for the years indicated:

(a) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. For additional information on these
transactions, see Note 2 on pages 123-128. 

At December 31, 2008, other U.S. time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more totaled
$93.9 billion, substantially all of which mature in three months or less. In addition, the table
below presents the maturities for U.S. time certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 or
more:

Table of Contents   

Short-term and other borrowed funds 

The following table provides a summary of JPMorgan Chase s short-term and other borrowed funds
for the years indicated.

(a) 
       
     Includes securities sold but not yet purchased. 

(b) 
       
     Included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in beneficial interests issued by
consolidated variable interest entities. 

Federal funds purchased represent overnight
funds. Securities loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements generally mature between one day and
three months. Commercial paper generally is issued
in amounts not less than $100,000 and with
maturities of 270 days or less. Other borrowed
funds consist of demand notes, term federal funds
purchased and various other borrowings that

generally
have maturities of one year or less. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, JPMorgan
Chase had no lines of credit for general corporate
purposes.

Table of Contents   

Signatures

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on behalf of the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

JPMorgan Chase   Co. 
(Registrant)         

By: /s/ JAMES DIMON  

(James Dimon 

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer)  
Date: March 2, 2009 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacity and on the
date indicated. JPMorgan Chase does not exercise the power of attorney to sign on behalf of any
Director.

Capacity 

Date 

/s/ JAMES DIMON

Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

(James Dimon)

(Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ CRANDALL C. BOWLES

(Crandall C. Bowles)

Director 

March 2, 2009 

/s/ STEPHEN B. BURKE

(Stephen B. Burke)

Director  

/s/ DAVID M. COTE

(David M. Cote)

Director  

/s/ JAMES S. CROWN

(James S. Crown)

Director  

/s/ ELLEN V. FUTTER

(Ellen V. Futter)

Director  

236 

Table of Contents   

Capacity 

Date 

/s/ WILLIAM H. GRAY, III

(William H. Gray, III)

Director  

/s/ LABAN P. JACKSON, JR.

(Laban P. Jackson, Jr.)

Director  

/s/ DAVID C. NOVAK

(David C. Novak)

Director 

March 2, 2009 

/s/ LEE R. RAYMOND

(Lee R. Raymond)

Director  

/s/ WILLIAM C. WELDON

(William C. Weldon)

Director  

/s/ MICHAEL J. CAVANAGH

(Michael J. Cavanagh)

Executive Vice President  and
Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/ LOUIS RAUCHENBERGER

(Louis Rauchenberger)

Managing Director and Controller  (Principal
Accounting Officer) 

237 

<EX-4.1.A>
 2
 y74757exv4w1wa.txt
 EX-4.1.A: INDENTURE

Exhibit 4.1(a)

CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION

                                       TO

                            THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK
                             (NATIONAL ASSOCIATION)
                                     Trustee

                               -------------------
                                    INDENTURE
                          Dated as of December 1, 1989
                               -------------------

                          CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION
         Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and
                          Indenture, dated as of , 1989

TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                 ----------------

                                      Page
Parties 1
Recitals Of The Company *

                                   ARTICLE ONE

             Definitions And Other Provisions Of General Application

                         Section 101. Definitions. *

                         Act...... *

                         Affiliate; control *

                         Attorney-in-Fact *

                         Authenticating Agent *

                         Bank..... *

                         Board of Directors *

                         Board Resolution *

                         Business Day *

                         Commission *

                         Company *

Company Request; Company Order *

                         Corporate Trust Office *

                         corporation *

                         covenant defeasance *

                         Defaulted Interest *

                         defeasance *

                         Depository *

                         Event of Default *

                         Global Security *

                         Holder *

                         Indebtedness for money borrowed *

                         Indenture *

                         interest *

                         Interest Payment Date *

                         Intermediate Subsidiary *

                         Maturity *

                         Officers' Certificate *

                         Opinion of Counsel *

                         Original Issue Discount Security *

                         Outstanding *

                         Payment Agent *

                         Person *

                         Place of Payment *

Predecessor Security *

                         Record Date *

                         Redemption Date *

                         Redemption Price *

                         Regular Record Date *

                         Responsible Officer *

                         Securities *

                         Security Register and Security Registrar *

                         Special Record Date *

                         Stated Maturity *

                         Subsidiary *

                         Trustee *

                         Trust Indenture Act *

                         U.S. Government Obligations *

                         Vice President *

                         Voting Stock *

                         Section 102. Compliance Certificates and Opinions. *

                         Section 103. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee. *

                         Section 104. Acts of Holders. *

                         Section 105. Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company. *

                         Section 106. Notice to Holders; Waiver. *

                         Section 107. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act. *

                         Section 108. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.*

Section 109. Successors and Assigns. *

                         Section 110. Separability Clause. *

                         Section 111. Benefits of Indenture. *

                         Section 112. Governing Law. *

                         Section 113. Legal Holidays. *

                                   ARTICLE TWO

                                 Security Forms

                         Section 201. Forms Generally. *

                         Section 202. Form of Face of Security. *

                         Section 203. Form of Reverse of Security. *

                         Section 204. Additional Provisions Required in Global
                         Security. *

                         Section 205. Form of Trustee's Certificate of
                         Authentication. *

                                  ARTICLE Three

                                 The Securities

                         Section 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series. *

                         Section 302. Denominations. *

                         Section 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and
                         Dating. *

                         Section 304. Temporary Securities. *

                         Section 305. Registration, Registration of Transfer
                         and Exchange. *

                         Section 306. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen
                         Securities. *

Section 307. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights
                         Preserved. *

                         Section 308. Persons Deemed Owners. *

                         Section 309. Cancellation. *

                         Section 310. Computation of Interest. *

                                  ARTICLE FOUR

                           Satisfaction And Discharge

                         Section 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture. *

                         Section 402. Application of Trust Money. *

                                  ARTICLE FIVE

                                    Remedies

                         Section 501. Events of Default. *

                         Section 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and
                         Annulment. *

                         Section 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for
                         Enforcement
                         by Trustee. *

                         Section 504. Trustee May File Proofs and Claim. *

                         Section 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without
                         Possession of Securities. *

                         Section 506. Application of Money Collected. *

                         Section 507. Limitation on Suits. *

                         Section 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive
                         Principal, Premium
                         and Interest. *

                         Section 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies. *

                         Section 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative *

Section 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver. *

                         Section 512. Control by Holders. *

                         Section 513. Waiver of Past Defaults. *

                         Section 514. Undertaking for Costs. *

                                   ARTICLE SIX

                                   The Trustee

                         Section 601. Certain Duties and Responsibilities. *

                         Section 602. Notice of Defaults. *

                         Section 603. Certain Rights of Trustee. *

                         Section 604. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance
                         of Securities. *

                         Section 605. May Hold Securities. *

                         Section 606. Money Held in Trust. *

                         Section 607. Compensation and Reimbursement. *

                         Section 608. Disqualifications; Conflicting Interests.*

                         (a) Elimination of Conflicting Interest or Resignation*

                         (b) Notice of Failure to Eliminate Conflicting Interest
                         or Resign *

                         (c) "Conflict of Interest" Defined *

                         (d) Definitions of Certain Terms Used in This Section *

                         (e) Calculation of Percentages of Securities *

                         Section 609. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility. *

                         Section 610. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of
                         Successor. *

                         Section 611. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. *

Section 612. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or
                         Succession to Business. *

                         Section 613. Preferential Collection of Claims Against
                         Company. *

                         (a) Segregation and Apportionment of Certain
                         Collections by
                         Trustee, Certain Exceptions *

                         (b) Certain Creditor Relationships Excluded from
                         Segregation
                         and Apportionment *

                         (c) Definition of Certain Terms Used in this Section *

                         Section 614. Appointment of Authenticating Agent. *

                                  ARTICLE SEVEN

             Holders' Lists And Reports By Trustee And Company

                         Section 701. Company to Furnish Trustee Names and
                         Addresses of Holders. *

                         Section 702. Preservation of Information;
                         Communications to Holders. *

                         Section 703. Reports by Trustee. *

                         Section 704. Reports by Company. *

                                  ARTICLE EIGHT

             Consolidation, Merger, Conveyance, Transfer Or Lease

                         Section 801. Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on
                         Certain Terms. *

                         Section 802. Successor Corporation Substituted. *

                                  ARTICLE NINE

                             Supplemental Indentures

Section 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent
                         of Holders. *

                         Section 902. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of
                         Holders. *

                         Section 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures. *

                         Section 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures. *

                         Section 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act. *

                         Section 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental
                         Indentures. *

                                   ARTICLE TEN

                                    COVENANTS

                         Section 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium and
                         Interest. *

                         Section 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency. *

                         Section 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held
                         in Trust. *

                         Section 1004. Corporate Existence. *

                         Section 1005. Payment of Taxes and Other Claims. *

                         Section 1006. Limitation on Disposition of Stock of
                         Bank. *

                         Section 1007. Statement as to Compliance. *

                         Section 1008. Waiver of Certain Covenants. *

                                 ARTICLE ELEVEN

                            Redemption Of Securities

                         Section 1101. Applicability of Article. *

                         Section 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee. *

Section 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be
                                   Redeemed. *

                         Section 1104. Notice of Redemption. *

                         Section 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price. *

                         Section 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date. *

                         Section 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part. *

                                 ARTICLE TWELVE

                                  Sinking Funds

                         Section 1201. Applicability of Article. *

                         Section 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments
                         with Securities. *

                         Section 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking
                         Fund. *

                                ARTICLE THIRTEEN

                      Defeasance And Covenant Defeasance

                         Section 1301. Applicability of Article; Company's
                         Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant
                         Defeasance. *

                         Section 1302. Defeasance and Discharge. *

                         Section 1303. Covenant Defeasance. *

                         Section 1304. Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant
                         Defeasance. *

                         Section 1305. Deposited Money and U.S. Government
                         Obligations to Be Held
                         in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions. *

                                  Testimonium *
                             Signatures And Seals *
                                Acknowledgments *

INDENTURE, DATED AS OF DECEMBER 1, 1989, BETWEEN CHEMICAL BANKING
  CORPORATION, A CORPORATION DULY ORGANIZED AND EXISTING UNDER THE LAWS OF THE
STATE OF DELAWARE (HEREIN CALLED THE "COMPANY"), HAVING ITS PRINCIPAL OFFICE AT
     277 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10172, AND THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK
                            (NATIONAL ASSOCIATION),
  A NATIONAL BANKING ASSOCIATION DULY ORGANIZED AND EXISTING UNDER THE LAWS OF
          THE UNITED STATES, AS TRUSTEE (HEREIN CALLED THE "TRUSTEE").

                             RECITALS OF THE COMPANY

The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to
provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or
other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued
in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.

All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in
accordance with its terms, have been done.

                   Now, Therefore, This Indenture Witnesseth:

For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by
the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and
proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as
follows:

                                       1.

                        Definitions and Other Provisions
                             of General Application

      1.  Definitions.

          For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly
          provided or unless the context otherwise requires:

                      1.  The terms defined in this Article have the meanings
                          assigned to them in this Article and include the
                          plural as well as the singular;

                      2.  All other terms used herein which are defined in the
                          Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference
                          therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;

                      3.  All accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have
                          the meanings assigned to them in accordance with
                          generally accepted accounting principles, and, except
                          as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term
                          "generally accepted accounting principles" with
                          respect to any computation

required or permitted hereunder shall mean such
                        accounting principles as are generally accepted at the
                        date of such computation; and

                    4.  The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other
                        words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a
                        whole and not to any particular Article, Section or
                        other subdivision.

                        Certain terms, used principally in Article Six, are
                        defined in that Article.

                        "Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the
                        meaning specified in Section 104.

                        "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other
                        Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled
                        by or under direct or indirect common control with such
                        specified Person. For the purposes of this definition,
                        "control" when used with respect to any specified Person
                        means the power to direct the management and policies of
                        such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the
                        ownership of voting securities, by contract or
                        otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled"
                        have meanings correlative to the foregoing.

                        "Attorney-in-Fact" means an officer of the Bank who has
                        been duly appointed as an attorney-in-fact by the
                        Company.

                        "Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by
                        the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee to
                        authenticate Securities.

                        "Bank" means Chemical Bank, a banking corporation duly
                        organized and existing under the laws of the State of
                        New York, and its successors (whether by consolidation,
                        merger, conversion, transfer of substantially all their
                        assets and business or otherwise) so long as Chemical
                        Bank or any successor is a Subsidiary.

                        "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors
                        of the Company or any committee of that board duly
                        authorized to set hereunder or any directors or officers
                        of the Company or Attorneys-in-Fact to whom such board
                        of directors or such committee shall have duly delegated
                        its authority.

"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution
                          certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary
                          of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board
                          of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the
                          date of such certification, and delivered to the
                          Trustee.

                          "Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of
                          Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
                          Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which
                          banking institutions in that Place of Payment are
                          authorized or obligated by law to close.

                          "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange
                          Commission, as from time to time constituted, created
                          under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or, if at
                          any time after the execution of this instrument such
                          Commission is not existing and performing the duties
                          now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then
                          the body performing such duties at such time.

                          "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in
                          the first paragraph of this instrument until a
                          successor Person shall have become such pursuant to
                          the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and
                          thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.

                          "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written
                          request or order signed in the name of the Company by
                          its Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, its
                          President, its Chief Financial Officer, a Vice
                          President or any Attorney-in-Fact, and by its
                          Controller, an Assistant Controller, its Secretary or
                          an Assistant Secretary and delivered to the Trustee.

                          "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of
                          the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of
                          New York, at which at any particular time its
                          corporate trust business shall be administered, such
                          office being currently located at One New York Plaza,
                          New York, NY 10081.

                          "corporation" includes corporations, associations,
                          companies and business trusts.

                          "covenant defeasance" has the meaning specified in
                          Section 1303.

"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in
                          Section 307.

                          "defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section
                          1302.

                          "Depository" means, with respect to the Securities of
                          any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in
                          the form of one or more Global Securities, the Person
                          designated as Depository by the Company pursuant to
                          Section 301.

                          "Event of Default" has the meaning specified in
                          Section 501.

                          "Global Security" means a Security in the form
                          prescribed in Section 204 evidencing all or part of a
                          series of Securities, issued to the Depository for
                          such series or its nominee, and registered in the name
                          of such Depository or nominee.

                          "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is
                          registered in the Security Register.

                          "Indebtedness for money borrowed", when used with
                          respect to the Company, means any obligation of, or
                          any obligation guaranteed by, the Company for the
                          repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced
                          by bonds, debentures, notes or other written
                          instruments.

                          "Indenture" means this instrument as originally
                          executed or as it may from time to time be
                          supplemented or amended by one or more indentures
                          supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the
                          applicable provisions hereof and shall include the
                          terms or particular series of Securities established
                          as contemplated by Section 301.

                          "interest", when used with respect to an Original
                          Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears
                          interest only after Maturity, means interest payable
                          after Maturity.

                          "Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any
                          Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment
                          of interest on such Security.

                          "Intermediate Subsidiary" has the meaning specified in
                          Section 1006.

"Maturity", when used with respect to any Security,
                          means the date on which the principal of such Security
                          or an instalment of principal becomes due and payable
                          as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated
                          Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for
                          redemption or otherwise.

                          "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by
                          the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, the
                          President, its Chief Financial Officer, a Vice
                          President or any Attorney-in-Fact, and by the
                          Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or
                          an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered
                          to the Trustee.

                          "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of
                          counsel who may be an employee of the Company or other
                          counsel to the Company.

                          "Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security
                          which provides for an amount less than the principal
                          amount thereof to be due and payable upon a
                          declaration of acceleration on the Maturity thereof
                          pursuant to Section 502.

                          "Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities,
                          means, as of the date of determination, all Securities
                          theretofore authenticated and delivered under this
                          Indenture, except:

                                    i.  Securities theretofore cancelled by the
                                        Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for
                                        cancellation;

                                    ii. Securities for whose payment or
                                        redemption money in the necessary amount
                                        has been theretofore deposited with the
                                        Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than
                                        the Company) in trust or set aside and
                                        segregated in trust by the Company (if
                                        the Company shall act as its own Paying
                                        Agent) for the Holders of such
                                        Securities; provided that, if such
                                        Securities are to

be redeemed, notice of such redemption
                                        has been duly given pursuant to this
                                        Indenture or provision therefore
                                        satisfactory to the Trustee has been
                                        made; and

                                  iii.  Securities which have been paid
                                        pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange
                                        for or in lieu of which other Securities
                                        have been authenticated and delivered
                                        pursuant to this Indenture, other than
                                        any such Securities in respect of which
                                        there shall have been presented to the
                                        Trustee proof satisfactory to it that
                                        such Securities are held by a bona fide
                                        purchaser in whose hands such Securities
                                        are valid obligations of the Company;

          provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the
          requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given
          any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or
          waiver hereunder, (i) the principal amount of an Original Issue
          Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the
          amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of
          the date of such determination upon acceleration of the Maturity
          thereof pursuant to Section 502, (ii) the principal amount of a
          Security denominated in a foreign currency or currency unit shall be
          the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined as of the date of original
          issuance of such Security, of the principal amount of such Security
          (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security denominated in
          a foreign currency or currency unit, the U.S. dollar equivalent as of
          the date of original issuance of such Security of the amount
          determined as provided in (i) above), (iii) the principal amount of a
          Security for which the amount of payments of principal of and any
          premium or interest on such Security may be determined with reference
          to an index shall be determined as of the date of original issuance of
          such Security and (iv) Securities owned by the Company or any other
          obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such
          other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding,
          except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in
          relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction,
          notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which the Trustee knows to
          be so owned shall be

so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good
          faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee established to the
          satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect
          to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any
          other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or
          of such other obligor.

          "Payment Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the
          principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities on
          behalf of the Company.

          "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint
          venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated
          organization or government or any agency or political subdivision
          thereof.

          "Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any
          series, means the place or places where the principal of (and premium,
          if any) and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as
          specified as contemplated by Section 301.

          "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous
          Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that
          evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this
          definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306
          in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen
          Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated,
          destroyed, lost or stolen Security.

          "Record Date" means a Regular Record Date or a Special Record Date, as
          the case may be.

          "Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be
          redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to
          this Indenture.

          "Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be
          redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to
          this Indenture.

          "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment
          Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that
          purpose as contemplated by Section 301.

          "Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, means
          the chairman or any vice-chairman of the board of directors, the
          chairman or any vice-chairman of the executive committee of the board
          of directors, the chairman of the trust committee, the president, any
          vice president, the

secretary, any assistant secretary, the treasurer, any assistant
          treasurer, the cashier, any assistant cashier, any trust officer or
          assistant trust officer, the controller or any assistant controller or
          any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions
          similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and
          also means, with respect to a particular corporation trust matter, any
          other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge
          of and familiarity with the particular subject.

          "Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this
          Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and
          delivered under this Indenture.

          "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective
          meanings specified in Section 305.

          "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means
          a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.

          "Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any
          instalment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date
          specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of
          such Security or such instalment of principal or interest is due and
          payable.

          "Subsidiary" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding
          Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company
          or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or
          more other Subsidiaries.

          "Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first
          paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have
          become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture,
          and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then
          a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such
          Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series
          shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.

          "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in
          force at the date as of which the instrument was executed, except as
          provided in Section 905.

          "U.S. Government Obligations" has the meaning specified in Section
          1304(1).

          "Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the
          Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a
          number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice
          president".

"Voting Stock" means stock of the class or classes having a general
          voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority
          of the board of directors, managers or trustees of a corporation
          (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class
          or classes shall have or might have voting power by reason of the
          happening of any contingency).

      2.  Compliance Certificates and Opinions.

          Under any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take
          any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall
          furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all
          conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating
          to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of
          Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such
          conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in
          the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing
          of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this
          Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no
          additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.

          Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a
          condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include

                        1.    a statement that each individual signing such
                              certificate or opinion has read such covenant or
                              condition and the definitions herein relating
                              thereto;

                        2.    a brief statement as to the nature and scope of
                              the examination or investigation upon which the
                              statements or opinions contained in such
                              certificate or opinion are based;

                        3.    a statement that, in the opinion of each such
                              individual, he has made such examination or
                              investigation as is necessary to enable him to
                              express an informed opinion as to whether or not
                              such covenant or condition has been complied with;
                              and

                        4.    a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each
                              such individual, such condition or covenant has
                              been complied with.

      3.  Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.

          In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or
          covered by an opinion of any specified Person, it is not necessary
          that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of,
          only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only
          one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with
          respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other
          matters, and any

such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters on one
          or several documents.

          Any certificate or opinion of an officer of, or
          Attorney-in-Fact for, the Company may be based, insofar as it relates
          to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations
          by counsel, unless such officer or Attorney-in-Fact knows, or in the
          exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or
          opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his
          certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or
          Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual
          matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an
          officer or officers of, or an Attorney-Fact or Attorneys-in-Fact for,
          the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual
          matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel
          knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the
          certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters
          are erroneous.

          Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more
          applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions
          or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be
          consolidated and form one instrument.

      4.  Acts of Holders.

              a.  Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
                  consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to
                  be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced
                  by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor
                  signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in
                  writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided,
                  such action shall become effective when such instrument or
                  instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is
                  hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or
                  instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced
                  thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the
                  Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of
                  execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing
                  any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this
                  Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of
                  the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in
                  this Section.

              b.  The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such
                  instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a
                  witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary
                  public or other officer authorized by law to take
                  acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual
                  signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the
                  execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting
                  in a capacity other than his individual

capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute
                  sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the
                  execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority
                  of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any
                  other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.

              c.  The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security
                  Register.

              d.  Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
                  consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security
                  shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the
                  Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of
                  transfer thereof or in exchange therefore or in lieu thereof
                  in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by
                  the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not
                  notation of such action is made upon such Security.

      5.  Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.

          Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver
          or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this
          Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished in, or filed with,

                      1.  the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be
                          sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given,
                          furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee
                          at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate
                          Trust Department, or

                      2.  the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be
                          sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless
                          otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and
                          mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company
                          addressed to it, attention: Secretary, at the address
                          of its principal office specified in the first
                          paragraph of this instrument or at any other address
                          previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the
                          Company.

      6.  Notice to Holders; Waiver.

          Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such
          notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly
          provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to
          each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in
          the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier
          than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In
          any case where notice to Holder is given by mail, neither the failure
          to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any
          particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with
          respect to other Holders. Any notice which is mailed in the manner
          herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to

have been duly given. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any
          manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to
          receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver
          shall be equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall
          be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition
          precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such
          waiver.

          In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by
          reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give one's
          notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the
          approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for
          every purpose hereunder.

      7.  Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.

          If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another
          provision hereof which is required to be included in this Indenture by
          any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required
          provision shall control.

      8.  Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.

          The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are
          for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.

      9.  Successors and Assigns.

          All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall
          bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.

      10. Separability Clause.

          In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be
          invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and
          enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be
          affected or impaired thereby.

      11. Benefits of Indenture.

          Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied,
          shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their
          successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or
          equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.

      12. Governing Law.

          This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed
          in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.

13. Legal Holidays.

    In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated
    Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of
    Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of
    the Securities) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need
    not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the
    next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force
    and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at
    the Stated Maturity, provided that no interest shall accrue for the period
    from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated
    Maturity, as the case may be.

2.

    Security Forms

      1.  Forms Generally.

          The Securities of each series shall be substantially in the form set
          forth in this Article, or in such other form (including permanent
          global form) as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board
          Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each
          case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and
          other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and
          may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and
          such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to
          comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may,
          consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company or
          any Attorney-in-Fact executing such Securities, as evidenced by their
          execution of the Securities. If the form of Securities of any series
          is established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy
          of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the
          Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to
          the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order
          contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of
          such Securities. If all of the Securities of any series established by
          action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution are not to be issued at
          one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver a record of such action
          at the time of issuance of each Security of such series, but an
          appropriate record of such action shall be delivered at or before the
          time of issuance of the first Security of such series.

          The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially
          the form set forth in this Article.

          The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved
          on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner
          (provided that if any Securities are to be listed on any securities
          exchange, then in such manner as may be permitted by the rules of any
          such securities

exchange), all as determined by the officers of the Company or any
          Attorney-in-Fact executing such Securities, as evidenced by their
          execution of such Securities.

      2.  Form of Face of Security.

          [Insert any legend required by the Internal Revenue Code and the
          regulations thereunder]

                          CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION

          ----------------------------------------------------------------------

          No. _________ $_______

          CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and
          existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the
          "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the
          Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby
          promises to pay to ____________________________, or registered
          assigns, the principal sum of ________________________________________
          Dollars on ______________________________________ [if the Security is
          to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert , and to pay interest
          thereon from _______________ or from the most recent Interest Payment
          Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, [insert
          appropriate period] or _________________ and _______________ in each
          year, commencing ______________, at the rate of __% per annum, until
          the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment [if
          applicable, insert , and (to the extent that the payment of such
          interest shall be legally enforceable) at the rate of __% per annum on
          any overdue principal and premium [if applicable, insert and on any
          overdue instalment of interest]. The interest so payable, and
          punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date
          will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose
          name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is
          registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for
          such interest, which shall be the ________ or _______ (whether or not
          a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest
          Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly
          provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such
          Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name
          this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at
          the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such
          Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be
          given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days
          prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other
          lawful manner

not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on
          which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such
          notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided
          in said Indenture]. [If the Security is not to bear interest prior to
          Maturity, insert The principal of this Security shall not bear
          interest except in the case of a default in payment of principal upon
          acceleration, upon redemption or at Stated Maturity and in such case
          the overdue principal of this Security shall bear interest at the rate
          of __% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest
          shall be legally enforceable), which shall accrue from the date of
          such default in payment to the date payment of such principal has been
          made or duly provided for. [Interest on any overdue principal shall be
          payable on demand. Any such interest on any overdue principal that is
          not so paid on demand shall bear interest at the rate of __% per annum
          (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally
          enforceable), which shall accrue from the date of such demand for
          payment to the date payment of such interest has been made or duly
          provided for, and such interest shall also be payable on demand].]

          Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and [if applicable,
          insert any such] interest on this Security will be made at the office
          or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in _____________,
          in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the
          time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private
          debts [unless otherwise specifically provided with respect to the
          Securities of the series, insert ; provided, however, that at the
          option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed
          to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall
          appear in the Security Register].

          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security
          set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for
          all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.

          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
          the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof, or an Authenticating
          Agent, by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any
          benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

          In Witness Whereof, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
          executed under its corporate seal.

          Dated:
          _________________________________________

By_______________________________________

          Attest:

          ______________________________________

      3.  Form of Reverse of Security.

          This Security is one of a duly authorized series of securities of the
          Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in
          one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of December 1, 1989
          (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Chase
          Manhattan Bank (National Association), as Trustee (herein called the
          "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the
          Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto
          reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights,
          limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the
          Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the
          terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and
          delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face
          hereof [, limited in aggregated principal amount to $________].

          [If applicable, insert The Securities of this series are subject to
          redemption upon not less than 30 days' nor more than 60 days' notice
          by mail [if applicable, insert (1) on ________________ in any year
          commencing with the year _________ and ending with the year __________
          through operation of the sinking fund for this series at a Redemption
          Price equal to 100% of the principal amount, and (2)] at any time [on
          or after ______________, 19__], as a whole or in part, at the election
          of the Company, at the following Redemption Prices (expressed as
          percentages of the principal amount): If redeemed [on or before
          ______________, __%, and if redeemed] during the 12-month period
          beginning ______________ of the years indicated,

                      REDEMPTION                         REDEMPTION

          YEAR          PRICE             YEAR             PRICE

And thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to __% of the principal
          amount, together in the case of any such redemption [if applicable,
          insert (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise)]
          with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest instalments
          whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be
          payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor
          Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Regular
          Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the
          Indenture.]

          [If applicable, insert The Securities of this series are subject to
          redemption upon not less than 30 days' nor more than 60 days' notice
          by mail (1) on _____________ in any year commencing with the year
          ________ and ending with the year ________ through operation of the
          sinking fund for this series at the Redemption Prices for redemption
          through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the
          principal amount) set forth in the table below, and (2) at any time
          [on or after _____________], as a whole or in part, at the election of
          the Company, at the Redemption Prices for redemption otherwise than
          through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the
          principal amount) set forth in the table below: If redeemed during the
          12-month period beginning ________________ of the years indicated,

                                    REDEMPTION PRICE

                                      FOR REDEMPTION       REDEMPTION PRICE FOR

                                    THROUGH OPERATION      REDEMPTION OTHERWISE

                                         OF THE           THEN THROUGH OPERATION

                        YEAR         SINKING FUND          OF THE SINKING FUND

and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to __% of the principal
          amount, together in the case of any such redemption (whether through
          operation of the sinking fund or otherwise) with accrued interest to
          the Redemption Date, but interest instalments whose Stated Maturity is
          on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of
          such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at
          the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates referred to
          on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]

          [Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not, prior to
          ________________, redeem any Securities of this series as contemplated
          by [Clause (2) of] the preceding paragraph as a part of, or in
          anticipation of, any refunding operation by the application, directly
          or indirectly, of moneys borrowed having an interest cost to the
          Company (calculated in accordance with generally accepted financial
          practices) of less than __% per annum.]

          [The sinking fund for this series provides for the redemption on
          _____________ in each year beginning with the year _______ and ending
          with the year ________of [not less than] $_______ [("mandatory sinking
          fund") and not more than $________] aggregate principal amount of
          Securities of this series. [Securities of this series acquired or
          redeemed by the Company otherwise than through [mandatory] sinking
          fund payments may be credited against subsequent [mandatory] sinking
          fund payments otherwise required to be made [if applicable, insert in
          the inverse order in which they become due].]

          In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new
          Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the
          unredeemed portion

hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the
          cancellation hereof.

          [If applicable, insert The Indenture contains provisions for
          defeasance at any time of [(a)] [the entire indebtedness evidenced by
          this Security] [and (b)] certain restrictive covenants,] [in each
          case] upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth
          therein, which provisions apply to this Security.]

          [If the Security is not an Original Issue Discount Security, insert If
          an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall
          occur and be continuing, the principal of the securities of this
          series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the
          effect provided in the Indenture.] [If the Security is an Original
          Issue Discount Security, insert If an Event of Default with respect to
          Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of
          principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and
          payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          Such amount shall be equal to insert formula for determining the
          amount.] Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due
          and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal and overdue
          interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest
          shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in
          respect of the payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on
          the Securities of this series shall terminate.

          The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided,
          the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and
          obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the
          Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any
          time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of
          a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time
          Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains
          provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in
          principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time
          Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such
          series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of
          the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their
          consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this
          Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all
          future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the
          registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu
          hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon
          this Security.

          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security
          or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the
          Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of
          (and premium if any)

and interest (if any) on this Security at the times, place and rate,
          and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations
          therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the
          Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of
          transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the
          principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (if any) on this
          Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written
          instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the
          Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney
          duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities
          of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate
          principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or
          transferees.

          The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form
          without coupons in denominations of $_______ and any integral multiple
          thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain
          limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are
          exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of
          this series of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as
          requested by the Holder surrendering the same.

          No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer
          or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient
          to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection
          therewith.

          Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of
          transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the
          Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered
          as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be
          overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall
          be affected by notice to the contrary.

          All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture
          shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

      4.  Additional Provisions Required in Global Security.

          Any Global Security issued hereunder shall, in addition to the
          provisions contained in Sections 202 and 203, bear a legend in
          substantially the following form:

          "This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the
          Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a
          Depository or a

nominee of a Depository. This Security is exchangeable for Securities
          registered in the name of a person other than the Depository or its
          nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture
          and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a
          nominee of the depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the
          Depository or another nominee of the Depository.

          Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect
          to any series of Securities, any Global Security shall provide, in
          addition to the provisions set forth in Sections 202 and 203 and the
          preceding paragraph, that the Depository will not sell, assign,
          transfer or otherwise convey any beneficial interest in such Global
          Security unless such beneficial interest is in an amount equal to an
          authorized denomination for Securities of such series, and that the
          Depository, by accepting such Global Security, agrees to be bound by
          such provision.

      5.  Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.

This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK

(NATIONAL ASSOCIATION)

as Trustee

By____________________________________

Authorized Officer

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK

(NATIONAL ASSOCIATION)

as Trustee

By Chemical Bank

Authenticating Agent

By____________________________________

Authorized Signer

3.

   The Securities

      1.  Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.

          The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be
          authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.

          The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be
          established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution and, subject to
          Section 303, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an
          Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures
          supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any
          series,

                      1.  the title of the Securities of the series (which shall
                          distinguish the Securities of the series from all
                          other Securities);

                      2.  any limit upon the aggregate principal amount or the
                          aggregate initial offering price of the Securities of
                          the series which may be authenticated and delivered
                          under this Indenture (except for Securities
                          authenticated and delivered upon registration of,
                          transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other
                          Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305,
                          906 or 1107 and except for any Securities which,
                          pursuant to Section 303, shall not have been issued
                          and sold by the Company and are therefore deemed never
                          to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);

                      3.  the Person to whom any interest on a Security of the
                          series shall be payable, if other than the Person in
                          whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor
                          Securities) is registered at the close of business on
                          the Regular Record Date for such interest;

                      4.  the date or dates on which the principal of the
                          Securities of the series is payable; the provisions,
                          if any, for extension of such date or dates;

                      5.  the rate or rates (or the formula pursuant to which
                          such rate or rates shall be determined) at which the
                          Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any,
                          including that rate of interest applicable to overdue
                          payments of principal, and the rate of interest, if
                          any, applicable to overdue payments of interest if
                          different from the rate of interest stated in the
                          title of the Security; the date or dates from which
                          such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates
                          on which such interest shall be payable and the
                          Regular Record Date for the interest payable on any
                          Interest Payment Date;

6.  the place or places where the principal of (and
                          premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the
                          Securities of the series shall be payable;

                      7.  if applicable, the period or periods within which, the
                          price or prices at which and the terms and conditions
                          upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed,
                          in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;

                      8.  the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or
                          purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any
                          sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option
                          of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within
                          which, the price or prices at which and the terms and
                          conditions upon which Securities of the series shall
                          be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part,
                          pursuant to such obligation;

                      9.  if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral
                          multiple thereof, the denominations in which
                          Securities of the series shall be issuable;

                      10. if other than the currency of the United States, the
                          currency or currencies, including composite
                          currencies, in which payment of the principal of and
                          any premium and interest on the Securities of the
                          series shall be payable, which may be different for
                          principal, premium, if any, and interest;

                      11. if the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest,
                          if any, on the Securities of the series are to be
                          payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder
                          thereof, in a currency or currencies other than that
                          in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the
                          currency or currencies in which payment of the
                          principal of (and premium, if any) or interest, if
                          any, on Securities of such series as to which such
                          election is made shall be payable, and the period or
                          periods within which, and the terms and conditions
                          upon which, such election may be made;

                      12. if the amount of payments of principal of and any
                          premium or interest on the Securities of the series
                          may be determined with reference to an index, the
                          manner in which such amounts shall be determined;

                      13. if other than the principal amount thereof, the
                          portion of the principal amount of Securities of the
                          series which shall be payable upon declaration of
                          acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to
                          Section 502;

                      14. any Event of Default with respect to the Securities of
                          the series, if not set forth herein;

                      15. the application, if any, of either or both of Section
                          1302 and Section 1303 to the Securities of the series.

                      16. whether the Securities of the series shall be issued
                          in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global
                          Securities and,

in  such case, the Depository for such Global Security
                          or Securities, which Depository shall be, if then
                          required by applicable law or regulation, a clearing
                          agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of
                          1934, as amended; and

                      17. any other terms of the series (which terms shall not
                          be inconsistent with the provisions of this
                          Indenture), including any covenants to be applicable
                          to Securities of such series if not set forth herein.

          All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical
          except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in
          or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to
          Section 303) set forth in the Officers' Certificate referred to above
          or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. All Securities of any
          one series need not be issued at one time, and unless otherwise
          provided, a series may be reopened for issuances of additional
          Securities of such series.

          Unless otherwise specifically provided with respect to the Securities
          of a series, at the option of the Company, interest on the Securities
          of any series that bears interest may be paid by mailing a check to
          the address of the person entitled thereto as such address shall
          appear in the Security Register.

          If any of the terms of Securities of a series are established by
          action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate
          record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an
          Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or
          prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the
          terms of the Securities of such series. If all of the Securities of
          any series established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution
          are not to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver
          a record of such action at the time of issuance of each Security of
          such series, but an appropriate record of such action shall be
          delivered at or before the time of issuance of the First Security of
          such series.

      2.  Denominations.

          The Securities of each series shall be issuable in registered form
          without coupons in each denominations as shall be specified as
          contemplated by Section 301. In the absence of any such provisions
          with respect to the Securities of any particular series, the
          Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000
          and any integral multiple thereof.

      3.  Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.

The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its
          Chairman of the Board, one of its Vice Chairman, its President, its
          Chief Financial Officer or one of its Vice Presidents, under its
          corporate seal reproduced thereon attested by its Secretary or one of
          its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on
          the Securities may be manual or facsimiles.

          Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals
          who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the
          Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have
          ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery
          of such Securities or did not hold such offices a the date of such
          Securities.

          At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of
          this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series
          executed by the Company to the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent for
          authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication
          and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee or the Authenticating
          Agent in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and make
          available for delivery such Securities. If all of the Securities of
          any series are not to be issued at one time and if the Board
          Resolution or supplemental indenture establishing such series shall so
          permit, such Company Order may set forth procedures acceptable to the
          Trustee for the issuance of such Securities and determining the terms
          of particular Securities of such series, such as interest rate,
          maturity date, date of issuance and date from which interest shall
          accrue. In authenticating Securities of any series, and accepting the
          additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such
          Securities, the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent, as the case may
          be, shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall
          be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,

                                    a.  if the form of such Securities has been
                                        established by or pursuant to a Board
                                        Resolution as permitted by Section 201,
                                        that such form has been established in
                                        conformity with the provisions of this
                                        Indenture;

                                    b.  if the terms of such Securities have
                                        been established by or pursuant to a
                                        Board Resolution as permitted by Section
                                        301, that such terms have been
                                        established in conformity with the
                                        provisions of this Indenture; and

                                    c.  that such Securities, when authenticated
                                        and delivered by the Trustee and issued
                                        by the Company

in the manner and subject to any
                                        conditions specified in such Opinion of
                                        Counsel, will constitute valid and
                                        legally binding obligations of the
                                        Company, enforceable in accordance with
                                        their terms, subject to bankruptcy,
                                        insolvency, fraudulent transfer,
                                        reorganization, moratorium and similar
                                        laws of general applicability relating
                                        to or affecting creditors' rights and to
                                        general equity principles and, if
                                        applicable, to provisions of law which
                                        may require that a judgment for money
                                        damages rendered by a court in the
                                        United States be expressed in Unites
                                        States dollars.

          If such forms or terms have been so established, the Trustee or the
          Authenticating Agent, as the case may be, shall not be required to
          authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant
          to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's or the Authenticating
          Agent's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this
          Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable
          to the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.

          Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding
          paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally
          issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers'
          Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company
          Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such
          preceding paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each
          Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to
          the time of authentication upon original issuance of the first
          Security of such series to be issued. After the original issuance of
          the first Security of such series to be issued, any separate request
          by the Company that the Trustee authenticate Securities of such series
          for original issuance will be deemed to be a certification by the
          Company that it is in compliance with all conditions precedent
          provided for in this Indenture relating to the authentication and
          delivery of such Securities.

          Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.

          No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or
          be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such
          Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form
          provided for herein

executed by the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent by manual
          signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive
          evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly
          authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits
          of this Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security
          shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued
          and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security
          to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 309 together
          with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 102 and
          need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such
          Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all
          purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have
          been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled
          to the benefits of this Indenture.

      4.  Temporary Securities.

          Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the
          Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee or the
          Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, temporary
          Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, reproduced or
          otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of
          the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are
          issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions
          and other variations of the officers executing such Securities may
          determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.

          If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will
          cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without
          unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of
          such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be
          exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender
          of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of
          the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to
          the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more
          temporary Securities of any series the Company shall execute, and the
          Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in
          exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of
          the same series and tenor of authorized denominations. Until so
          exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects
          be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive
          Securities of such series.

      5.  Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.

          The Company shall cause to be kept at the corporate trust office of
          the Security Registrar designated pursuant to this Section 305 a
          register (the register maintained in such office being herein
          sometimes referred to as

the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable
          regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the
          registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Bank is
          hereby initially appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of
          registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.

          Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any
          series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series,
          the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and make
          available for delivery, in the name of the designated transferee or
          transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any
          authorized denominations and of a like tenor and aggregate principal
          amount.

          At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged
          for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized
          denominations and of a like tenor and aggregate principal amount, upon
          surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency.
          Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company
          shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available
          for delivery, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is
          entitled to receive.

          All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of
          Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing
          the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture,
          as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or
          exchange.

          Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer
          or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee)
          be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of
          transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security
          Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly
          authorized in writing.

          No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or
          exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum
          sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be
          imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of
          Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906 or 1107
          not involving any transfer.

          The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer
          of or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening
          of business 15 days before any selection for redemption of Securities
          of like tenor and of the series of which such Security is a part and
          ending at the close of business on the earliest date on which the
          relevant notice of redemption is deemed to have been given to all
          Holders of Securities of such series to be redeemed, or (ii) to
          register the transfer of or exchange

any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except
          the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Security representing a
          series of Securities shall be exchangeable pursuant to this Section
          305 for Securities registered in the names of Persons other than the
          Depository or its nominee only if (i) subject to any other terms of
          the series applicable to such Global Security, such Depository
          notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as
          Depository for such Global Security or if at any time such Depository
          ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, at a time when such Depository is
          required to be so registered to act as such Depository, (ii) the
          Company executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order that such
          Global Security shall be so exchangeable or (iii) there shall have
          occurred and be continuing an Event of Default or an event which, with
          the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an
          Event of Default with respect to the Securities. Any Global Security
          that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be
          exchangeable for Securities registered in such names as such
          Depository shall direct.

          Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, a Global
          Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository
          with respect to such Global Security to a nominee of such Depository
          or by a nominee of such Depository to such Depository or another
          nominee of such Depository. Unless otherwise provided as contemplated
          by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities evidenced in
          whole or in part by a Global Security, the Depository may not sell,
          assign, transfer or otherwise convey any beneficial interest in a
          Global Security evidencing all or part of the Securities of such
          series unless such beneficial interest is in an amount equal to an
          authorized denomination for Securities of such series.

      6.  Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.

          If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company
          shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in
          exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor
          and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously
          outstanding.

          If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i)
          evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of
          any Security and (ii) such security or indemnify as may be required by
          them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless,
          then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such
          Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall
          execute and upon its request the Trustee shall authenticate and make
          available for delivery, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen
          Security, a new Security of the same

series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not
          contemporaneously outstanding.

          In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has
          become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its
          discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security of the same series,
          pay such Security.

          Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company
          may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other
          governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any
          other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee)
          connected therewith.

          Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in
          lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an
          original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or
          not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time
          enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of
          this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other
          Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.

          The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to
          the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the
          replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen
          Securities.

      7.  Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.

          Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect
          to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is
          payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest
          Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security
          (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of
          business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.

          Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is
          not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date
          (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be
          payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of
          having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by
          the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1)
          or (2) below:

              1.  The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted
                  Interest to the Person or Persons in whose names the
                  Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor
                  Securities) are registered at the close of business on a
                  Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted
                  Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The

Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of
                  Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of
                  such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the
                  same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount
                  of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in
                  respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements
                  satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date
                  of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held
                  in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such
                  Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the
                  Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of
                  such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days
                  and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed
                  payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the
                  Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee
                  shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date
                  and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall
                  cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted
                  Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed,
                  first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities of
                  such series at his address as it appears in the Security
                  Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record
                  Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted
                  Interested and the Special Record Date therefor having been so
                  mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons
                  in whose names the Securities of such series (or their
                  respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close
                  of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be
                  payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).

              2.  The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the
                  Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not
                  inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange
                  on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice
                  as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by
                  the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to
                  this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed
                  practicable by the Trustee.

          Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security
          delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in
          exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights
          to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by
          such other Security.

      8.  Persons Deemed Owners.

Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer,
          the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee
          may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the
          owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of
          principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 307)
          interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever,
          whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the
          Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected
          by notice to the contrary.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Global Security,
          nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, or any agent of
          the Company or the Trustee, from giving effect to any written
          certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by a Depository
          or impair, as between a Depository and holders of beneficial interests
          in any Global Security, the operation of customary practices governing
          the exercise of the rights of the Depositary as Holder of such Global
          Security.

      9.  Cancellation.

          All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of
          transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment
          shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be
          delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The
          Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any
          Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the
          Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to
          the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for
          cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which
          the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered
          shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be
          authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled
          as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this
          Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be
          destroyed by the Trustee and a certificate of destruction shall be
          delivered to the Company.

      10. Computation of Interest.

   Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities
   of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on
   the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.

4.

   Satisfaction and Discharge

      1.  Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.

This Indenture shall upon request by the Company cease to be of
          further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of
          transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and
          the Trustee, upon Company Request and at the expense of the Company,
          shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and
          discharge of this Indenture, when

              1.  either

                      A.  all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered
                          (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed,
                          lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as
                          provided in Section 306 and (ii) Securities for whose
                          payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust
                          or segregated and held in trust by the Company and
                          thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from
                          such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been
                          delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or

                      B.  all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the
                          Trustee for cancellation

                              i.  have become due and payable, or

                              ii. will become due and payable at their Stated
                                  Maturity within one year, or

                              iii. are to be called for redemption within one
                                  year under arrangements satisfactory to the
                                  Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption
                                  by the Trustee in the name, and at the
                                  expenses of the Company,

                  and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has
                  deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust
                  funds in trust for the purpose an amount sufficient to pay and
                  discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not
                  theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for
                  principal (and premium, if any) and interest to the date of
                  such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due
                  and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as
                  the case may be;

              2.  the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums
                  payable hereunder by the Company; and

              3.  the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers'
                  Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all
                  conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the
                  satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been
                  complied with.

Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the
          obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607, the
          obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section
          614 and, if money or U.S. Government Obligations shall have been
          deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the
          conditions of Section 609) in accordance with Section 1302, the
          obligations of the Company to the Trustee (or other qualifying
          trustee) under the fourth paragraph of Section 1305, and, if money
          shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B)
          of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under
          Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive.

      2.  Application of Trust Money.

   Subject to provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money
   deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and
   applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this
   Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent
   (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may
   determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if
   any) and interest, if any, for whose payment such money has been deposited
   with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds
   except as required by law.

5.

   Remedies

      1.  Events of Default.

          "Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of
          any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason
          for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or
          involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any
          judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or
          regulation of any administrative or governmental body):

                  1.  default in the payment of interest, if any, upon any
                      Security of that series when it becomes due and payable,
                      and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days;
                      or

                  2.  default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if
                      any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or

                  3.  default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when
                      and as due by the terms of a Security of that series and
                      continuance of such default for a period of 5 days; or

                  4.  default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or
                      warranty of the Company in this Indenture or any Security
                      of that series (other than a covenant or warranty a
                      default in

whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this
                      Section specifically death with or which has expressly
                      been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of
                      series of Securities other than that series), and
                      continuance of such default or breach for a period of 60
                      days after there has been given, by registered or
                      certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the
                      Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in
                      principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that
                      series a written notice specifying such default or breach
                      and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such
                      notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder, or

                  5.  a default under any bond, debenture, notice or other
                      evidence of indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company
                      (including a default with respect to Securities of any
                      series other than that series) or under any mortgage,
                      indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or
                      by which there may be secured or evidenced any
                      indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company (including
                      this Indenture), whether such indebtedness now exists or
                      shall hereafter be created, which default shall have
                      resulted (i) in a failure to pay an aggregate principal
                      amount exceeding $25,000,000 of such indebtedness for
                      money borrowed at the later of final maturity or upon the
                      expiration of any applicable period of grace with respect
                      to such principal amount, or (ii) in such indebtedness for
                      money borrowed in an aggregate principal amount exceeding
                      $25,000,000 becoming or being declared due and payable
                      prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become
                      due and payable, without such indebtedness having been
                      discharged, or such acceleration having been rescinded or
                      annulled, within a period of 30 days after there shall
                      have been given, by registered or certified mail, to the
                      Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee
                      by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the
                      Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice
                      specifying such default and requiring the Company to cause
                      such indebtedness to be discharged or cause such
                      acceleration to be rescinded or annulled and stating that
                      such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; provided,
                      however, that, subject to the provisions of Sections 601
                      and 602, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge
                      of such default unless either (A) a Responsible Officer of
                      the Trustee shall have actual knowledge of such default or
                      (B) the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof
                      from the Company, from any Holder, from the holder of any

such indebtedness for money borrowed or from the trustee
                      under any such mortgage, indenture or other instrument;
                      and provided, further, that any such default shall not be
                      deemed to have occurred if and so long as the Company
                      shall contest the validity thereof in good faith by
                      appropriate proceedings; or

                  6.  the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises
                      of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the
                      Company or the Bank in an involuntary case or proceeding
                      under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy,
                      insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a
                      decree or order appointing a custodian, receiver,
                      liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other
                      similar official of the Company or the Bank or of all or
                      substantially all of their respective property, or
                      ordering the winding up or liquidation of their respective
                      affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order
                      for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and
                      in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or

                  7.  the commencement by the Company or the Bank of a voluntary
                      case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State
                      bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar
                      law or the consent by either to the filing of such
                      petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by
                      a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee,
                      sequestrator or similar official of the Company or the
                      Bank or of all or substantially all of their respective
                      property, or the making by either of an assignment for the
                      benefit of creditors, or the admission by either in
                      writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as
                      they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the
                      Company or the Bank in furtherance of any such action; or

                  8.  any other Event of Default provided with respect to
                      Securities of that series.

          Upon receipt by the Trustee of any Notice of Default pursuant to
          Section 501(4) or Section 501(5) with respect to Securities of a
          series all or part of which is represented by a Global Security, a
          record date shall be established for determining Holders of
          Outstanding Securities of such series entitled to join in such Notice
          of Default, which record date shall be at the close of business on the
          day the Trustee receives such Notice of Default. The Holders on such
          record date, or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons,
          shall be entitled to join in such Notice of Default, whether or not
          such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided, that
          unless Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding
          Securities of such series, or their proxies, shall have joined in

such Notice of Default prior to the date which is 90 days after such
          record date, such Notice of Default shall automatically and without
          further action by any Holder be canceled and of no further effect.
          Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder, or a proxy of a
          Holder, from giving, after expiration of such 90-day period, a new
          Notice of Default which is identical to a Notice of Default which has
          been canceled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in
          which event a new record date shall be established pursuant to the
          provisions of this Section 501.

      2.  Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.

          If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series at the
          time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case
          the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of
          the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal
          amount (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue
          Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be
          specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Securities of
          that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing
          to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any
          such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall
          become immediately due and payable, except that no such declaration
          shall be required upon the occurrence of an Event of Default specified
          in Section 501(7).

          At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to
          Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree
          for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as
          hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in
          principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by
          written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul
          such declaration and its consequences, and any Event of Default giving
          rise to such declaration shall not be deemed to have occurred, if

                  1.  the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum
                      sufficient to pay

                          A.  all overdue interest on all Securities of that
                              series,

                          B.  the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any
                              Securities of that series which have become due
                              otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration
                              and interest thereon at the rate or rates
                              prescribed therefor in such Securities,

                          C.  to the extent that payment of such interest is
                              lawful, interest, if any, upon overdue interest

at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such
                              Securities, and

                          D.  all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder
                              and the reasonable compensation, expenses,
                              disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its
                              agents and counsel;

                  and

              1.  all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that
                  series, other than the non-payment of the principal of
                  Securities of that series which have become due solely by such
                  declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as
                  provided in Section 513 or otherwise remedied.

No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right
consequent thereon.

Upon receipt by the Trustee of any written notice declaring such an
acceleration, or rescission and annulment thereof, with respect to Securities of
a series all or part of which is represented by a Global Security, a record date
shall be established for determining Holders of Outstanding Securities of such
series entitled to join in such notice, which record date shall be at the close
of business on the day the Trustee receives such notice. The Holders on such
record date, or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be
entitled to join in such notice, whether or not such Holders remain Holders
after such record date; provided, that unless such declaration of acceleration,
or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall have become effective by
virtue of the requisite percentage having joined in such notice prior to the day
which is 90 days after such record date, such notice of declaration of
acceleration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall
automatically and without further action by any Holder be canceled and of no
further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder, or a proxy of
a Holder, from giving, after expiration of each 90-day period, a new written
notice of declaration of acceleration, or rescission or annulment thereof, as
the case may be, that is identical to a written notice which has been canceled
pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in which event a new record
date shall be established pursuant to the provisions of this Section 502.

      1.  Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.

          The Company covenants that if:

              1.  default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security
                  when such interest becomes due and payable and such default
                  continues for a period of 30 days,

2.  default is made in the payment of the principal of (or
                  premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof, or

              3.  default is made in the making or satisfaction of any sinking
                  fund payment or analogous obligation when the same becomes due
                  pursuant to the terms of any Security and such default
                  continues for 5 days;

          the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the
          benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due
          and payable on such Securities for principal, including any sinking
          fund payment or analogous obligations (and premium, if any) and
          interest and, to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be
          legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal including any
          sinking fund payment or analogous obligations (and premium, if any)
          and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor
          in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as
          shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection,
          including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and
          advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.

          If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand,
          the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may
          institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due
          and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree
          and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon
          such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be
          payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the
          Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.

          If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs
          and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to
          protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of
          Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as
          the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such
          rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or
          agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power
          granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.

      2.  Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.

          In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation,
          bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or
          other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor
          upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other
          obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the
          principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein
          expressed or by

declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall
          have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue
          principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by
          intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,

                                      i.  to file and prove a claim for the
                                          whole amount of principal (and
                                          premium, if any) and interest, if any,
                                          owing and unpaid in respect of the
                                          Securities of all series and to file
                                          such other papers or documents as may
                                          be necessary or advisable in order to
                                          have the claims of the Trustee
                                          (including any claim for the
                                          reasonable compensation, expenses,
                                          disbursements and advances of the
                                          Trustee, its agents and counsel) and
                                          of the Holders allowed in such
                                          judicial proceeding, and

                                      ii. to collect and receive any moneys or
                                          other property payable or deliverable
                                          on any such claims and to distribute
                                          the same;

          and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator,
          sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding
          is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the
          Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making
          of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any
          amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements
          and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other
          amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.

          Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to
          authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any
          plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or compensation
          affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to
          authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in
          any such proceeding.

      3.  Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.

All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities
          may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession
          of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding
          relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee
          shall be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust,
          and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of
          the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of
          the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the
          Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been
          recovered.

      4.  Application of Money Collected.

          Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be
          applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the
          Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of
          principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, upon presentation
          of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only
          partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:

          First: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section
          607; and

          Second: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for
          principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the
          Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money
          has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any
          kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for
          principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, respectively.

      5.  Limitation on Suits.

          No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to
          institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this
          Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any
          other remedy hereunder, unless

                  1.  such Holder has previously given written notice to the
                      Trustee of a continuing Event of Default or an event
                      which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or
                      both, would constitute an Event of Default with respect to
                      the Securities of that series;

                  2.  the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of
                      the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made
                      written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in
                      respect of such Event of Default in its own name as
                      Trustee hereunder;

3.  such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee
                      reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and
                      liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such
                      request;

                  4.  the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice,
                      request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any
                      such proceeding; and

                  5.  no direction inconsistent with such written request has
                      been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the
                      Holders of a majority in principal amount of the
                      Outstanding Securities of that series;

          it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders
          shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by
          availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or
          prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to
          seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders
          or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner
          herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such
          Holders.

      6.  Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and
          Interest.

          Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of
          any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and
          unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of (and premium, if
          any) and (subject to Section 307) interest, if any, on such Security
          on the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or,
          in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute
          suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall
          not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.

      7.  Restoration of Rights and Remedies.

          If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce
          any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been
          discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined
          adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such
          case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company,
          the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and
          respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all
          rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as
          though no such proceeding had been instituted.

      8.  Rights and Remedies Cumulative.

Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or
          payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last
          paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or
          reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive
          of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the
          extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other
          right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law
          or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or
          remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent
          assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.

      9.  Delay or Omission Not Waiver.

          No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities
          to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default
          shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any
          such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and
          remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the
          Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be
          deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may
          be.

      10. Control by Holders.

          The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding
          Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time,
          method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available
          to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the
          Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, provided that

                  1.  such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of
                      law or with this Indenture, and

                  2.  the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the
                      Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.

          Upon receipt by the Trustee of any written notice directing the time,
          method or place of conducting any such proceeding or exercising any
          such trust or power with respect to Securities of a series all or part
          of which is represented by a Global Security, a record date shall be
          established for determining Holders of Outstanding Securities of such
          series entitled to join in such notice, which record date shall be at
          the close of business on the day the Trustee receives such notice. The
          Holders on such record date, or their duly designated proxies, and
          only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such notice, whether
          or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided,
          that unless Holders of a majority in principal amount of the
          Outstanding Securities of such series shall have joined in such notice
          prior to the day which is 90 days after such record date, such

notice shall automatically and without further action by any Holder be
          canceled and of no further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall
          prevent a Holder, or a proxy of a Holder, from giving, after
          expiration of such 90-day period, a new notice identical to a notice
          which has been canceled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding
          sentence, in which event a new record date shall be established
          pursuant to the provisions of this Section 512.

      11. Waiver of Past Defaults.

          The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the
          Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of
          all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder
          with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default

                  1.  in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or
                      interest, if any, on any Security of such series, or

                  2.  in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under
                      Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the
                      consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such
                      series affected.

          The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for
          the purpose of determining the Persons entitled to waive any past
          default hereunder. If a record date is fixed, the Holders on such
          record date, or their duly designated proxies, and only such Person,
          shall be entitled to waive any default hereunder, whether or not such
          Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided, that unless
          such majority in principal amount shall have waived such default prior
          to the date which is 90 days after such record date, any such waiver
          of such default previously given shall automatically and without
          further action by any Holder be canceled and of no further effect.

          Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event
          of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for
          every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to
          any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent
          thereon.

      12. Undertaking for Costs.

All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his
acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its
discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under
this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken,
suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such
suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in
its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys'

fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits
and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the
Company, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any
Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal
amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by
any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium,
if any) or interest, if any, on any Security on or after the Stated Maturity or
Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case or redemption, on or
after the Redemption Date).

                                       1.

                                   The Trustee

      1.  Certain Duties and Responsibilities.

              a.  Except during the continuance of an Event of Default,

                      1.  the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only
                          such duties as are specifically set forth in this
                          Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations
                          shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee;
                          and

                      2.  in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee
                          may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the
                          statements and the correctness of the opinions
                          expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions
                          furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the
                          requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any
                          such certificates or opinions which by any provision
                          hereof are specifically required to be furnished to
                          the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to
                          examine the same to determine whether or not they
                          conform to the requirements of this Indenture.

              b.  In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing,
                  the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers
                  vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of
                  care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would
                  exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his
                  own affairs.

              c.  No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve
                  the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its
                  own negligent failure to act, or its own wilful misconduct,
                  except that

                      1.  this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the
                          effect of Subsection (a) of this Section;

                      2.  the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of
                          judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer,
                          unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was
                          negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;

                      3.  the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any
                          action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good
                          faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders
                          of a majority

in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of
                          any series, determined as provided in Section 512,
                          relating to the time, method and place of conducting
                          any proceeding for any remedy available to the
                          Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred
                          upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to
                          the Securities of such series; and

                      4.  no provision of this Indenture shall require the
                          Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise
                          incur any financial liability in the performance of
                          any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any
                          of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable
                          grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or
                          adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is
                          not reasonably assured to it.

              d.  Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision
                  of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the
                  liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be
                  subject to the provisions of this Section.

      2.  Notice of Defaults.

          Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder known to
          the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee
          shall transmit by mail to all Holders of Securities of such series, as
          their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of
          such default hereunder, unless such default shall have been cured or
          waived; provided, however, that, except in the case of a default in
          the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on
          any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking fund
          instalment with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee
          shall be protected in the withholding such notice if and so long as
          the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee
          of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith
          determine that withholding of such notice is in the interest of the
          Holders of Securities of such series; and provided, further, that in
          the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4)
          with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders
          shall be given until at least 60 days after the occurrence thereof.
          For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event
          which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an
          Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.

      3.  Certain Rights of Trustee.

          Subject to the provisions of Section 601:

              a.  the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or
                  refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate,
                  statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request,
                  direction, consent, order, bond,

debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper
                  or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been
                  signed or presented by the proper party or parties;

              b.  any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall
                  be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company
                  Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be
                  sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;

              c.  whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee
                  shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established
                  prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder,
                  the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically
                  prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely
                  upon an Officers' Certificate;

              d.  the Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of
                  such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and
                  complete authorization and protection in respect of any action
                  taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and
                  in reliance thereon;

              e.  the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of
                  the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the
                  request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this
                  Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the
                  Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs,
                  expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in
                  compliance with such request or direction;

              f.  the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into
                  the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate,
                  statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request,
                  direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other
                  evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the
                  Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or
                  investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit,
                  and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further
                  inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the
                  books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by
                  agent or attorney; and

              g.  the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder
                  or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or
                  through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be
                  responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of
                  any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder.

      4.  Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.

          The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the
          Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the
          statements of the Company, and the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent
          assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no
          representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or
          of the Securities. The

Trustee or any Authenticating Agent shall not be accountable for the
          use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds
          thereof.

      5.  May Hold Securities.

          The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security
          Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any
          other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and,
          subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the Company
          with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee,
          Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other
          agent.

      6.  Money Held in Trust.

          Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated
          from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee
          shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it
          hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Company.

      7.  Compensation and Reimbursement.

          The Company agrees

                  1.  to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable
                      compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder
                      (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision
                      of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an
                      express trust);

                  2.  except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to
                      reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable
                      expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by
                      the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this
                      Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the
                      expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel),
                      except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be
                      attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and

                  3.  to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless
                      against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without
                      negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in
                      connection with the acceptance or administration of the
                      trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and
                      expenses of defending itself against any claim or
                      liability in connection with the exercise or performance
                      of any of its powers or duties hereunder.

      8.  Disqualifications; Conflicting Interests.

a.  If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest,
                  as defined in this Section, with respect to the Securities of
                  any series, it shall, within 90 days after ascertaining that
                  it has such conflicting interest, either eliminate such
                  conflicting interest or resign with respect to the Securities
                  of that series in the manner and with the effect hereinafter
                  specified in this Article.

              b.  In the event that the Trustee shall fail to comply with the
                  provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section with respect to
                  the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall, within 10
                  days after the expiration of such 90-day period, transmit by
                  mail to all Holders of Securities of that series, as their
                  names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of
                  such failure.

              c.  For the purposes of this Section, the Trustee shall be deemed
                  to have a conflicting interest with respect to the Securities
                  of any series if

                      1.  the Trustee is trustee under this Indenture with
                          respect to the Outstanding Securities of any series
                          other than that series or is trustee under another
                          indenture under which any other securities, or
                          certificates of interest or participation in any other
                          securities, of the Company are outstanding, unless
                          such other indenture is a collateral trust indenture
                          under which the only collateral consists of Securities
                          issued under this Indenture, provided that there shall
                          be excluded from the operation of this paragraph this
                          Indenture with respect to the Securities of any series
                          other than that series, the Indenture dated as of
                          November 1, 1982, as supplemented, between the Company
                          and the Trustee, under which the Company's Medium Term
                          Notes at various rates and with various maturity
                          dates, Step-Down Floating Rate Notes due 1990, 9-1/2%
                          Notes due 1991, and 9.55% Senior Notes due 1993 are
                          outstanding as of the date hereof or any other
                          indenture or indentures under which other securities,
                          or certificates of interest or participation in other
                          securities, of the Company are outstanding, if

                                  i.  this Indenture and such other indenture or
                                      indentures are wholly unsecured and such
                                      other indenture or indentures are
                                      hereafter qualified under the Trust
                                      Indenture Act, unless the Commission shall
                                      have found and declared by order pursuant
                                      to Section 305(b) or Section 307(c) of the
                                      Trust Indenture Act that differences exist
                                      between the provisions of this Indenture
                                      with respect to Securities of that series
                                      and one or more other series or the
                                      provisions of such other indenture or
                                      indentures which are so likely to involve
                                      a

material conflict of interest as to make
                                      it necessary in the public interest or for
                                      the protection of investors to disqualify
                                      the Trustee from acting as such under this
                                      Indenture with respect to the Securities
                                      of that series and such other series or
                                      under such other indenture or indentures,
                                      or

                                  ii. the Company shall have sustained the
                                      burden of proving, on application to the
                                      Commission and after opportunity for
                                      hearing thereon, that trusteeship under
                                      this Indenture with respect to the
                                      Securities of that series and such other
                                      series or such other indenture or
                                      indentures is not so likely to involve a
                                      material conflict of interest as to make
                                      it necessary in the public interest or for
                                      the protection of investors to disqualify
                                      the Trustee from acting as such under this
                                      Indenture with respect to the Securities
                                      of that series and such other series or
                                      under such other indenture or indentures;

                  2.  the Trustee or any of its directors or executive officers
                      is an obligor upon the Securities or an underwriter for
                      the Company;

                  3.  the Trustee directly or indirectly controls or is directly
                      or indirectly controlled by or is under direct or indirect
                      common control with the Company or an underwriter for the
                      Company;

                  4.  the Trustee or any of its directors or executive officers
                      is a director, officer, partner, employee, appointee or
                      representative of the Company, or of an underwriter (other
                      than the Trustee itself) for the Company who is currently
                      engaged in the business of underwriting, except that (i)
                      one individual may be a director or an executive officer,
                      or both, of the Trustee and a director or an executive
                      officer, or both, of the Company but may not be at the
                      same time an executive officer of both the Trustee and the
                      Company; (ii) if and so long as the number of directors of
                      the Trustee in office is more than nine, one additional
                      individual may be a director or an executive officer, or
                      both, of the Trustee and a director of the Company; and
                      (iii) the Trustee may be designated by the Company or by
                      any underwriter for the Company to act in the capacity of
                      transfer agent, registrar, custodian, paying agent, fiscal
                      agent, escrow agent or depositary, or in any other similar
                      capacity, or, subject to

the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Subsection, to act
                      as trustee, whether under an indenture or otherwise;

                  5.  10% or more of the voting securities of the Trustee is
                      beneficially owned either by the Company or by any
                      director, partner or executive officer thereof, or 20% or
                      more of such voting securities is beneficially owned,
                      collectively, by any two or more of such persons; or 10%
                      or more of the voting securities of the Trustee is
                      beneficially owned either by an underwriter for the
                      Company or by any director, partner or executive officer
                      thereof, or is beneficially owned, collectively, by any
                      two or more such persons;

                  6.  the Trustee is the beneficial owner of, or holds as
                      collateral security for an obligation which is in default
                      (as hereinafter in this Subsection defined), (i) 5% or
                      more of the voting securities, or 10% or more of any other
                      class of security, of the Company not including the
                      Securities issued under this Indenture and securities
                      issued under any other indenture under which the Trustee
                      is also trustee, or (ii) 10% or more of any class of
                      security of an underwriter for the Company;

                  7.  the Trustee is the beneficial owner of, or holds as
                      collateral security for an obligation which is in default
                      (as hereinafter in this Subsection defined), 5% or more of
                      the voting securities of any person who, to the knowledge
                      of the Trustee, owns 10% or more of the voting securities
                      of, or controls directly or indirectly or is under direct
                      or indirect common control with, the Company;

                  8.  the Trustee is the beneficial owner of, or holds as
                      collateral security for an obligation which is in default
                      (as hereinafter in this Subsection defined), 10% or more
                      of any class of security of any person who, to the
                      knowledge of the Trustee, owns 50% or more of the voting
                      securities of the Company; or

                  9.  the Trustee owns, on May 15 in any calendar year, in the
                      capacity of executor, administrator, testamentary or inter
                      vivos trustee, guardian, committee or conservator, or in
                      any other similar capacity, an aggregate of 25% or more of
                      the voting securities, or of any class of security, of any
                      person, the beneficial ownership of a specified percentage
                      of which would have constituted a conflicting interest
                      under paragraph (6), (7) or (8) of this Subsection. As to
                      any such securities of which the Trustee acquired
                      ownership through becoming executor, administrator or
                      testamentary trustee of an estate which included them, the
                      provisions of the preceding sentence shall not apply, for
                      a period of two years from the date of such acquisition,
                      to the extent that

such securities included in such estate do not exceed 25%
                      of such voting securities or 25% of any such class of
                      security. Promptly after May 15 in each calendar year, the
                      Trustee shall make a check of its holdings of such
                      securities in any of the above-mentioned capacities as of
                      such May 15. If the Company fails to make payment in full
                      of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on
                      any of the Securities when and as the same becomes due and
                      payable, and such failure continues for 30 days
                      thereafter, the Trustee shall make a prompt check of its
                      holdings of such securities in any of the above-mentioned
                      capacities as of the date of the expiration of such 30-day
                      period, and after such date, notwithstanding the foregoing
                      provisions of this paragraph, all such securities so held
                      by the Trustee, with sole or joint control over such
                      securities vested in it, shall, but only so long as such
                      failure shall continue, be considered as though
                      beneficially owned by the Trustee for the purposes of
                      paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) of this Subsection.

              The specification of percentages in paragraphs (5) to (9),
              inclusive, of this Subsection shall not be construed as indicating
              that the ownership of such percentages of the securities of a
              person is or is not necessary or sufficient to constitute direct
              or indirect control for the purposes of paragraph (3) or (7) of
              this Subsection.

              For the purposes of paragraphs (6), (7), (8) and (9) of this
              Subsection only, (i) the terms "security" and "securities" shall
              include only such securities as are generally known as corporate
              securities, but shall not include any note or other evidence of
              indebtedness issued to evidence an obligation to repay moneys lent
              to a person by one or more banks, trust companies or banking
              firms, or any certificate of interest or participation in any such
              note or evidence of indebtedness; (ii) an obligation shall be
              deemed to be "in default" when a default in payment of principal
              shall have continued for 30 days or more and shall not have been
              cured; and (iii) the Trustee shall not be deemed to be the owner
              or holder of (A) any security which it holds as collateral
              security, as trustee or otherwise, for an obligation which is not
              in default as defined in clause (ii) above, or (B) any security
              which it holds as collateral security under this Indenture,
              irrespective of any default hereunder, or (C) any security which
              it holds as agent for collection, or as custodian, escrow agent or
              depositary, or in any similar representative capacity.

          d.  For the purposes of this Section:

1.  The term "underwriter", when used with reference to the
                      Company, means every person who, within three years prior
                      to the time as of which the determination is made, has
                      purchased from the Company with a view to, or has offered
                      or sold for the Company in connection with, the
                      distribution of any security of the Company outstanding at
                      such time, or has participated or has had a direct or
                      indirect participation in any such undertaking, or has
                      participated or has had a participation in the direct or
                      indirect underwriting of any such undertaking, but such
                      term shall not include a person whose interest was limited
                      to a commission from an underwriter or dealer not in
                      excess of the usual and customary distributors' or
                      sellers' commission.

                  2.  The term "director" means any director of a corporation or
                      any individual performing similar functions with respect
                      to any organization, whether incorporated or
                      unincorporated.

                  3.  The term "person" means an individual, a corporation, a
                      partnership, an association, a joint-stock company, a
                      trust, an unincorporated organization or a government or
                      political subdivision thereof. As used in this paragraph,
                      the term "trust" shall include only a trust where the
                      interest or interests of the beneficiary or beneficiaries
                      are evidenced by a security.

                  4.  The term "voting security" means any security presently
                      entitling the owner or holder thereof to vote in the
                      direction or management of the affairs of a person, or any
                      security issued under or pursuant to any trust, agreement
                      or arrangement whereby a trustee or trustees or agent or
                      agents for the owner or holder of such security are
                      presently entitled to vote in the direction or management
                      of the affairs of a person.

                  5.  The term "Company" means any obligor upon the Securities.

                  6.  The term "executive officer" means the president, every
                      vice president, every trust officer, the cashier, the
                      secretary and the treasurer of a corporation, and any
                      individual customarily performing similar functions with
                      respect to any organization whether incorporated or
                      unincorporated, but shall not include the chairman of the
                      board of directors.

          e.  The percentages of voting securities and other securities
              specified in this Section shall be calculated in accordance with
              the following provisions:

                  1.  A specified percentage of the voting securities of the
                      Trustee, the Company or any other person referred to in
                      this Section (each of whom is referred to as a "person" in
                      this paragraph) means such amount of the outstanding

voting securities of such person as entitles the holder or
                      holders thereof to cast such specified percentage of the
                      aggregate votes which the holders of all the outstanding
                      voting securities of such person are entitled to cast in
                      the direction or management of the affairs of such person.

                  2.  A specified percentage of a class of securities of a
                      person means such percentage of the aggregate amount of
                      securities of the class outstanding.

                  3.  The term "amount," when used in regard to securities,
                      means the principal amount if relating to evidences of
                      indebtedness, the number of shares if relating to capital
                      shares and the number of units if relating to any other
                      kind of security.

                  4.  The term "outstanding" means issued and not held by or for
                      the account of the issuer. The following securities shall
                      not be deemed outstanding within the meaning of this
                      definition:

                                  i.  securities of an issuer held in a sinking
                                      fund relating to securities of the issuer
                                      of the same class;

                                  ii. securities of an issuer held in a sinking
                                      fund relating to another class of
                                      securities of the issuer, if the
                                      obligation evidenced by such other class
                                      of securities is not in default as to
                                      principal or interest or otherwise;

                                  iii. securities pledged by the issuer thereof
                                      as security for an obligation of the
                                      issuer not in default as to principal or
                                      interest or otherwise; and

                                  iv. securities held in escrow if placed in
                                      escrow by the issuer thereof;

                      provided, however, that any voting securities of an issuer
                      shall be deemed outstanding if any person other than the
                      issuer is entitled to exercise the voting rights thereof.

                  5.  A security shall be deemed to be of the same class as
                      another security if both securities confer upon the holder
                      or holders thereof substantially the same rights and
                      privileges; provided, however, that, in the case of
                      secured evidences of indebtedness, all of which are issued
                      under a single indenture, differences in the interest
                      rates or maturity dates of various series thereof shall
                      not be deemed sufficient to constitute such series
                      different classes and provided, further, that, in the case
                      of unsecured evidences of indebtedness, differences in the
                      interest rates or maturity

dates thereof shall not be deemed sufficient to constitute
                      them securities of different classes, whether or not they
                      are issued under a single indenture.

      9.  Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.

          There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a
          corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United
          States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia,
          authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having
          a combined capital and surplus of a least $50,000,000 subject to
          supervision or examination by Federal or State authority and having
          its Corporate Trust Office in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of
          New York. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least
          annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising
          or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the
          combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be
          its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent
          report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall
          cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this
          Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect
          hereinafter specified in this Article.

      10. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.

              a.  No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of
                  a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become
                  effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor
                  Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of
                  Section 611.

              b.  The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the
                  Securities of one or more series by giving written notice
                  thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a
                  successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been
                  delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of
                  such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition
                  any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a
                  successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such
                  series.

              c.  The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the
                  Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority
                  in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such
                  series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.

              d.  If at any time:

                      1.  the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608(a)
                          after written request therefor by the Company or by
                          any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a
                          Security for at least six months, or

                      2.  the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section
                          609 and shall fail to resign after written request
                          therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or

3.  the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall
                          be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of
                          the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or
                          any public officer shall take charge or control of the
                          Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose
                          of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,

                  then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution
                  may remove the Trustee with respect to all securities, or (ii)
                  subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide
                  Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of
                  himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court
                  of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with
                  respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor
                  Trustee or Trustees.

              e.  If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of
                  acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee
                  for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more
                  series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly
                  appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the
                  Securities of that or those series (it being understood that
                  any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to
                  the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that
                  at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to
                  the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with
                  the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within one
                  year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the
                  occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect
                  to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of
                  the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the
                  Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company
                  and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed
                  shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in
                  accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611,
                  become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of
                  such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee
                  appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect
                  to the Securities of any Series shall have been so appointed
                  by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the
                  manner required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a bona
                  fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six
                  months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly
                  situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the
                  appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the
                  Securities of such series.

              f.  The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each
                  removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any
                  series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with
                  respect to the

Securities of any series by mailing written notice of such
                  event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of
                  Securities of such series as their names and addresses appear
                  in the Security Register. Each notice shall include the name
                  of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of
                  such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.

      11. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.

              a.  In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee
                  with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee
                  so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the
                  Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting
                  such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of
                  the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor
                  Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall
                  become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties
                  of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or
                  the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon
                  payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument
                  transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers
                  and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign,
                  transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property
                  and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.

              b.  In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee
                  with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all)
                  series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor
                  Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series
                  shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto
                  wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment
                  and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be
                  necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest
                  in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and
                  duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities
                  of that or those series to which the appointment of such
                  successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not
                  retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such
                  provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to
                  confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the
                  retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or
                  those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring
                  shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3)
                  shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture
                  as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the
                  administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one
                  Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such
                  supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees
                  cotrustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall
                  be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart
                  from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other
                  such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such
                  supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the
                  retiring

Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein
                  and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed
                  or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights,
                  powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect
                  to the Securities of that or those series to which the
                  appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request
                  of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee
                  shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor
                  Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee
                  hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those
                  series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee
                  relates.

              c.  Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall
                  execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly
                  vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such
                  rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraphs (a) and
                  (b) of this Section, as the case may be.

              d.  No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at
                  the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be
                  qualified and eligible under this Article.

      12. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.

          Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or
          with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from
          any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be
          a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the
          corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the
          Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise
          qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or
          filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the
          parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated,
          but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by
          merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may
          adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated
          with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself
          authenticated such Securities.

      13. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.

              a.  Subject to Subsection (b) of this Section, if the Trustee
                  shall be or shall become a creditor, directly or indirectly,
                  secured or unsecured, of the Company within four months prior
                  to a default, as defined in Subsection (c) of this Section, or
                  subsequent to such a default, then, unless and until such
                  default shall be cured, the Trustee shall set apart and hold
                  in a special account for the benefit of the Trustee
                  individually, the Holders of the Securities and the holders of
                  other indenture securities, as defined in Subsection (c) of
                  this Section:

1.  an amount equal to any and all reductions in the
                          amount due and owing upon any claim as such creditor
                          in respect of principal or interest, effected after
                          the beginning of such four months' period and valid as
                          against the Company and its other creditors, except
                          any such reduction resulting from the receipt or
                          disposition of any property described in paragraph (2)
                          of this Subsection, or from the exercise of any right
                          of set-off which the Trustee could have exercised if a
                          petition in bankruptcy had been filed by or against
                          the Company upon the date of such default; and

                      2.  all property received by the Trustee in respect of any
                          claims as such creditor, either as security therefor,
                          or in satisfaction or composition thereof, or
                          otherwise, after the beginning of such four months'
                          period, or an amount equal to the proceeds of any such
                          property, if disposed of, subject, however, to the
                          rights, if any, of the Company and its other creditors
                          in such property or such proceeds.

                          Nothing herein contained, however, shall affect the
                          right of the Trustee:

                              A.  to retain for its own account (i) payments
                                  made on account of any such claim by any
                                  Person (other than the Company) who is liable
                                  thereon, and (ii) the proceeds of the bona
                                  fide sale of any such claim by the Trustee to
                                  a third Person, and (iii) distributions made
                                  in cash, securities or other property in
                                  respect of claims filed against the Company in
                                  bankruptcy or receivership or in proceedings
                                  for reorganization pursuant to the Federal
                                  Bankruptcy Act or applicable State law;

                              B.  to realize, for its own account, upon any
                                  property held by it as security for any such
                                  claim, if such property was so held prior to
                                  the beginning of such four months' period;

                              C.  to realize, for its own account, but only to
                                  the extent of the claim hereinafter mentioned,
                                  upon any property held by it as security for
                                  any such claim, if such claim was created
                                  after the beginning of such four months'
                                  period and such property was received as
                                  security therefor simultaneously with the
                                  creation thereof, and if the Trustee shall
                                  sustain the burden of proving that at the time
                                  such property was so received the Trustee had
                                  no reasonable cause to believe that a default,
                                  as defined in Subsection (c) of this Section,
                                  would occur within four months; or

D.  to receive payment on any claim referred to in
                                  paragraph (B) or (C), against the release of
                                  any property held as security for such claim
                                  as provided in paragraph (B) or (C), as the
                                  case may be, to the extent of the fair value
                                  of such property.

                                  For the purposes of paragraphs (B), (C) and
                                  (D), property substituted after the beginning
                                  of such four months' period for property held
                                  as security at the time of such substitution
                                  shall, to the extent of the fair value of the
                                  property released, have the same status as the
                                  property released, and, to the extent that any
                                  claim referred to in any of such paragraphs is
                                  created in renewal of or in substitution for
                                  or for the purpose of repaying or refunding
                                  any pre-existing claim of the Trustee as such
                                  creditor, such claim shall have the same
                                  status as such pre-existing claim.

                                  If the Trustee shall be required to account,
                                  the funds and property held in such special
                                  account and the proceeds thereof shall be
                                  apportioned among the Trustee, the Holders and
                                  the holders of other indenture securities in
                                  such manner that the Trustee, the Holders and
                                  the holders of other indenture securities
                                  realize, as a result of payments from such
                                  special account and payments of dividends on
                                  claims filed against the Company in bankruptcy
                                  or receivership or in proceedings for
                                  reorganization pursuant to the Federal
                                  Bankruptcy Act or applicable State law, the
                                  same percentage of their respective claims,
                                  figured before crediting to the claim of the
                                  Trustee anything on account of the receipt by
                                  it from the Company of the funds and property
                                  in such special account and before crediting
                                  to the respective claims of the Trustee and
                                  the Holders and the holders of other indenture
                                  securities dividends on claims filed against
                                  the Company in bankruptcy or receivership or
                                  in proceedings for reorganization pursuant to
                                  the Federal Bankruptcy Act or applicable State
                                  law, but after crediting thereon receipts on
                                  account of the indebtedness represented by
                                  their respective claims from all sources other
                                  than from such dividends and from the funds
                                  and property so held in such special account.
                                  As used in this paragraph, with respect to

any claim, the term "dividends" shall include
                                  any distribution with respect to such claim,
                                  in bankruptcy or receivership or proceedings
                                  for reorganization pursuant to the Federal
                                  Bankruptcy Act or applicable State law,
                                  whether such distribution is made in cash,
                                  securities or other property, but shall not
                                  include any such distribution with respect to
                                  the secured portion, if any, of such claim.
                                  The court in which such bankruptcy,
                                  receivership or proceedings for reorganization
                                  is pending shall have jurisdiction (i) to
                                  apportion among the Trustee, the Holders and
                                  the holders of other indenture securities, in
                                  accordance with the provisions of this
                                  paragraph, the funds and property held in such
                                  special account and proceeds thereof, or (ii)
                                  in lieu of such apportionment, in whole or in
                                  part, to give to the provisions of this
                                  paragraph due consideration in determining the
                                  fairness of the distributions to be made to
                                  the Trustee and the Holders and the holders of
                                  other indenture securities with respect to
                                  their respective claims, in which event it
                                  shall not be necessary to liquidate or to
                                  appraise the value of any securities or other
                                  property held in such special account or as
                                  security for any such claim, or to make a
                                  specific allocation of such distributions as
                                  between the secured and unsecured portions of
                                  such claims, or otherwise to apply the
                                  provisions of this paragraph as a mathematical
                                  formula.

                                  Any Trustee which has resigned or been removed
                                  after the beginning of such four months'
                                  period shall be subject to the provisions of
                                  this Subsection as though such resignation or
                                  removal had not occurred. If any Trustee has
                                  resigned or been removed prior to the
                                  beginning of such four months' period, it
                                  shall be subject to the provisions of this
                                  Subsection if and only if the following
                                  conditions exist:

                                      i.  the receipt of property or reduction
                                          of claim, which would have given rise
                                          to the obligation to account, if such
                                          Trustee had continued as Trustee,
                                          occurred after the beginning of such
                                          four months' period; and

ii. such receipt of property or reduction
                                          of claim occurred within four months
                                          after such resignation or removal.

              b.  There shall be excluded from the operation of Subsection (a)
                  of this Section a creditor relationship arising from:

                      1.  the ownership or acquisition of securities issued
                          under any indenture, or any security or securities
                          having a maturity of one year or more at the time of
                          acquisition by the Trustee;

                      2.  advances authorized by a receivership or bankruptcy
                          court of competent jurisdiction or by this Indenture,
                          for the purpose of preserving any property which shall
                          at any time be subject to the lien of this Indenture
                          or of discharging tax liens or other prior liens or
                          encumbrances thereon, if notice of such advances and
                          of the circumstances surrounding the making thereof is
                          given to the Holders at the time and in the manner
                          provided in this Indenture;

                      3.  disbursements made in the ordinary course of business
                          in the capacity of trustee under the indenture,
                          transfer agent, registrar, custodian, paying agent,
                          fiscal agent or depositary, or other similar capacity;

                      4.  an indebtedness created as a result of services
                          rendered or premises rented; or an indebtedness
                          created as a result of goods or securities sold in a
                          cash transaction, as defined in Subsection (c) of this
                          Section;

                      5.  the ownership of stock or of other securities of a
                          corporation organized under the provisions of Section
                          25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, which is
                          directly or indirectly a creditor of the Company; and

                      6.  the acquisition, ownership, acceptance or negotiation
                          of any drafts, bills of exchange, acceptances or
                          obligations which fall within the classification of
                          self-liquidating paper, as defined in Subsection (c)
                          of this Section.

              c.  For the purposes of this Section only:

                      1.  the term "default" means any failure to make payment
                          in full of the principal of or interest on any of the
                          Securities or upon the other indenture securities when
                          and as such principal or interest becomes due and
                          payable;

                      2.  the term "other indenture securities" means securities
                          upon which the Company is an obligor outstanding under
                          any other indenture (i) under which the Trustee is
                          also trustee, (ii) which contains provisions
                          substantially similar to the provisions of this
                          Section, and (iii) under which a default exists at the
                          time of the apportionment of the funds and property
                          held in such special account;

                      3.  the term "cash transaction" means any transaction in
                          which full payment for goods or securities sold is
                          made within

seven days after delivery of the goods or securities
                          in currency or in checks or other orders drawn upon
                          banks or bankers and payable upon demand;

                      4.  the term "self-liquidating paper" means any draft,
                          bull of exchange, acceptance or obligations which is
                          made, drawn, negotiated or incurred by the Company for
                          the purpose of financing the purchase, processing,
                          manufacturing, shipment, storage or sale of goods,
                          wares or merchandise and which is secured by documents
                          evidencing title to, possession of, or lien upon, the
                          goods, wares or merchandise or the receivables or
                          proceeds arising from the sale of the goods, wares or
                          merchandise previously constituting the security,
                          provided the security is received by the Trustee
                          simultaneously with the creation of the creditor
                          relationship with the Company arising from the making,
                          drawing, negotiating or incurring of the draft, bill
                          of exchange, acceptance or obligation;

                      5.  the term "Company" means any obligor upon the
                          Securities; and

                      6.  the term "Federal Bankruptcy Act" means the Bankruptcy
                          Act or Title 11 of the United States Code.

      14. Appointment of Authenticating Agent.

As of the date of the Indenture and at any time when any of the Securities
remain Outstanding the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents
(which may be an Affiliate or Affiliates of the Company) with respect to one or
more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the
Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issuance,
exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to
Section 306, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits
of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if
authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this
Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the
Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to
include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an
Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of
the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be
acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and
doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof
or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating
Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and
subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such
Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant
to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then
for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such
Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital surplus as set
forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at

any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with
the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign
immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.

Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or
with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger,
conversion or consolidation, to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a
party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust
business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating
Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section,
without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of
the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.

An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof
to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the
agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such
Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice or
resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such
Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the
provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating
Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of
such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of
Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will
serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any
successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder
shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor
hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent.
No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the
provisions of this Section.

The Company agrees to pay each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable
compensation for its services under this Section.

The Bank is initially designated as the Authenticating Agent for the Securities.

If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this
Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to
the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of
authentication in the following form:

This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK
(NATIONAL ASSOCIATION)
As Trustee

By___________________________________
   As Authenticating Agent

   By___________________________________
   Authorized Officer

2.

   Holders' Lists and Reports by Trustee and Company

      1.  Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.

          The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee

                                      a.  semi-annually, not more than fifteen
                                          days after each Regular Record Date,
                                          or, in the case of any series of
                                          Securities on which no interest is
                                          payable, not more than fifteen days
                                          after each coupon date or other date
                                          specified by the Trustee, a list, in
                                          such form as the Trustee may
                                          reasonably require, of the names and
                                          addresses of the Holders as of such
                                          Record Date, and

                                      b.  at such other times as the Trustee may
                                          request in writing, within 30 days
                                          after the receipt by the Company of
                                          any such request, a list of similar
                                          form and content as of a date not more
                                          than 15 days prior to the time such
                                          list is furnished;

          excluding from any such list names and addresses received by the
          Trustee if and so long as it is acting as Security Registrar.

      2.  Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.

              a.  The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is
                  reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders
                  contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as
                  provided in Section 701 and the names and addressees of
                  Holders received by the Trustee if and so long as it is acting
                  as Security Registrar. The Trustee may

destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701
                  upon receipt of a new list so furnished.

              b.  If three or more Holders of the same series (herein referred
                  to as "applicants") apply in writing to the Trustee, and
                  furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such
                  applicant has owned a Security for a period of at least six
                  months preceding the date of such application, and such
                  application states that the applicants desire to communicate
                  with other Holders with respect to their rights under this
                  Indenture or under the Securities and is accompanied by a copy
                  of the form of proxy or other communication which such
                  applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall, within
                  five business days after the receipt of such application, at
                  its election, either

                                      i.  afford such applicants access to the
                                          information preserved at the time by
                                          the Trustee in accordance with Section
                                          702(a), or

                                      ii. inform such applicants as to the
                                          approximate number of Holders whose
                                          names and addresses appear in the
                                          information preserved at the time by
                                          the Trustee in accordance with Section
                                          702(a), and as to the approximate cost
                                          of mailing to such Holders the form of
                                          proxy or other communication, if any,
                                          specified in such application.

                  If the Trustee shall elect not to afford such applicants
                  access to such information. the Trustee shall, upon the
                  written request of such applicants, mail to each Holder whose
                  name and address appear in the information preserved at the
                  time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 702(a) a copy
                  of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified
                  in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to
                  the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or
                  provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of
                  mailing, unless within five days after such tender the Trustee
                  shall mail to such applicants and file with the Commission,
                  together with a copy of the material to be mailed, a written
                  statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee,
                  such mailing would be contrary to the best interest of the
                  Holders or would be in violation of applicable law. Such
                  written statement

shall specify the basis of such opinion. If the Commission,
                  after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections specified
                  in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order
                  refusing to sustain any of such objections or if, after the
                  entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections,
                  the Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for
                  hearing, that all the objections so sustained have been met
                  and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail
                  copies of such material to all such Holders with reasonable
                  promptness after the entry of such order and the renewal of
                  such tender; otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any
                  obligation or duty to such applicants respecting their
                  application.

              c.  Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same,
                  agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the
                  Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall
                  be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such
                  information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in
                  accordance with Section 702(b), regardless of the source from
                  which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall
                  not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material
                  pursuant to a request made under Section 702(b).

      3.  Reports by Trustee.

              a.  On or before September 15 of each year commencing with the
                  year 1990, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders,
                  as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register,
                  a brief report dated as of the preceding July 15 with respect
                  to:

                      1.  its eligibility under Section 609 and its
                          qualifications under Section 608, or in lieu thereof,
                          if to the best of its knowledge it has continued to be
                          eligible and qualified under said Sections, a written
                          statement to such effect;

                      2.  the character and amount of any advances (and if the
                          Trustee elects so to state, the circumstances
                          surrounding the making thereof) made by the Trustee
                          (as such) which remain unpaid on the date of such
                          report, and for the reimbursement of which it claims
                          or may claim a lien or charge, prior to that of the
                          Securities, on any property or funds held or collected
                          by it as Trustee, except that the Trustee shall not be
                          required (but may elect) to report such advances if
                          such advances so remain unpaid aggregate not more than
                          1/2 of 1% of the principal amount of the Securities
                          Outstanding on the date of such report;

                      3.  the amount, interest rate and maturity date of all
                          other indebtedness owing by the Company (or by any
                          other obligor on the Securities) to the Trustee in its
                          individual capacity, on the date of such report, with
                          a brief description

of any property held as collateral security therefor,
                          except an indebtedness based upon a creditor
                          relationship arising in any manner described in
                          Section 613(b)(2), (3), (4) or (6);

                      4.  the property and funds, if any, physically in the
                          possession of the Trustee as such on the date of such
                          report;

                      5.  any additional issue of Securities which the Trustee
                          has not previously reported; and

                      6.  any action taken by the Trustee in the performance of
                          its duties hereunder which it has not previously
                          reported and which in its opinion materially affects
                          the Securities, except action in respect of a default,
                          notice of which has been or is to be withheld by the
                          Trustee in accordance with Section 602.

              b.  The Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders, as their
                  names and addresses appear in the Security Register, a brief
                  report with respect to the character and amount of any
                  advances (and if the Trustee elects so to state, the
                  circumstances surrounding the making thereof) made by the
                  Trustee (as such) since the date of the last report
                  transmitted pursuant to Subsection (a) of this Section (or if
                  no such report has yet been so transmitted, since the date of
                  execution of this instrument) for the reimbursement of which
                  it claims or may claim a lien or charge, prior to that of the
                  Securities, on property or funds held or collected by it as
                  Trustee and which it has not previously reported pursuant to
                  this Subsection, except that the Trustee shall not be required
                  (but may elect) to report such advances if such advances
                  remaining unpaid at any time aggregate 10% or less of the
                  principal amount of the Securities Outstanding at such time,
                  such report to be transmitted within 90 days after such time.

              c.  A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such
                  transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each
                  stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the
                  Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the
                  Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange.

      4.  Reports by Company.

          The Company shall:

                      1.  file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the
                          Company is required to file the same with the
                          Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the
                          information, documents and other reports (or copies of
                          such portions of any of the foregoing as the
                          Commission may from time to time by rules and
                          regulations prescribe) which the Company may be
                          required to file with the Commission pursuant to
                          Section

13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
                          1934; or, if the Company is not required to file
                          information, documents or reports pursuant to either
                          of said Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee
                          and the Commission, in accordance with rules and
                          regulations prescribed from time to time by the
                          Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic
                          information, documents and reports which may be
                          required pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities
                          Exchange Act of 1934 in respect of a security listed
                          and registered on a national securities exchange as
                          may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and
                          regulations;

                      2.  file with the Trustees and the Commission, in
                          accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from
                          time to time by the Commission, such additional
                          information, documents and reports with respect to
                          compliance by the Company with the conditions and
                          covenants of this Indenture as may be required from
                          time to time by such rules and regulations; and

                      3.  transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names and
                          addresses appear in the Security Register, within 30
                          days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such
                          summaries of any information, documents and reports
                          required to be filed by the Company pursuant to
                          paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section as may be
                          required by rules and regulations prescribed from time
                          to time by the Commission.

3.

      Consolidation, Merger, Conveyance, Transfer or Lease

          1.  Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.

              The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other
              Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets
              substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:

                      1.  the Person formed by such consolidation or into which
                          the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by
                          conveyance or transfer, of which leases, the
                          properties and assets of the Company substantially as
                          an entirety shall be a corporation organized and
                          existing under the laws of the United States of
                          America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia
                          and shall expressly assume, by an indenture
                          supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the
                          Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due
                          and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium,
                          if any) and interest on all the Securities and the
                          performance of every

covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company
                          to be performed or observed;

                      2.  immediately after giving effect to such transaction,
                          no Event of Default and no event which, after notice
                          or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of
                          Default shall have happened and be continuing; and

                      3.  the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an
                          Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each
                          stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance,
                          transfer or lease and such supplemental indenture
                          comply with this Article and that all conditions
                          precedent herein provided for relating to such
                          transaction have been complied with.

          2.  Successor Corporation Substituted.

Upon any consolidation by the Company with or merger by the Company into any
other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets
of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 801, the
successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is
merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to,
and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company
under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been
named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the
predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this
Indenture and the Securities.

4.

      Supplemental Indentures

          1.  Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.

              Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized
              by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time
              to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental
              hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the
              following purposes:

                      1.  to evidence the succession of another corporation to
                          the Company and the assumption by any such successor
                          of the covenants of the Company herein and in the
                          Securities; or

                      2.  to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit
                          of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and
                          if such covenants are to be for the benefit of fewer
                          than all series of Securities, stating that such
                          covenants are expressly being included solely for the
                          benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or
                          power herein conferred upon the Company; or

3.  to add any additional Events of Default; or

                      4.  to add to or change any of the provisions of this
                          Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to
                          permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in
                          bearer form, registrable or not registrable as to
                          principal, and with or without interest coupons, or to
                          permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in
                          certificated form or global form; or

                      5.  to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this
                          Indenture, provided that any such change or
                          elimination shall become effective only when there is
                          no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to
                          the execution of such supplemental indenture which is
                          entitled to the benefit of such provision; or

                      6.  to secure the Securities; or

                      7.  to establish the form or terms of Securities of any
                          series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or

                      8.  to evidence and provide for the acceptance of
                          appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with
                          respect to the Securities of one or more series and to
                          add to or change any of the provisions of this
                          Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or
                          facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder
                          by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements
                          of Section 611(b); or

                      9.  to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any
                          provision herein which may be inconsistent with any
                          other provision herein, or to make any other
                          provisions with respect to matters or questions
                          arising under this Indenture, provided such action
                          shall not adversely affect the interests of the
                          Holders of Securities or any series in any material
                          respect.

      2.  Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.

          With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in
          principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected
          by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to
          the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board
          Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures
          supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or
          changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this
          Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of
          Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however,
          that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the
          Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,

                      1.  change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any
                          instalment of principal of or interest on, any
                          Security, or

reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of, or
                          method of computation of the rate of, interest thereon
                          or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or
                          reduce the amount of the principal of an Original
                          Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable
                          upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity
                          thereof pursuant to Section 502, or reduce the amount
                          of, or postpone the date fixed for, the payment of any
                          sinking fund or analogous obligation, or change any
                          Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in
                          which, any Security or any premium of the interest
                          thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute
                          suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or
                          after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of
                          redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or

                      2.  reduce the percentage in principal amount of the
                          Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of
                          whose Holders is required for any such supplemental
                          indenture, of the consent of whose Holders is required
                          for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions
                          of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and
                          their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or

                      3.  modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section
                          513 or Section 1008, except to increase any such
                          percentage or to provide that certain other provisions
                          of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without
                          the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security
                          affected thereby, provided, however, that this clause
                          shall not be deemed to require the consent of any
                          Holder with respect to changes in the references to
                          the "Trustee", and concomitant changes in this Section
                          and Section 1008, or the deletion of this proviso, in
                          accordance with the requirements of Sections 611(b)
                          and 901(8).

          A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or
          other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included
          solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities,
          or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such
          series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be
          deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of
          Securities of any other series.

          The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for
          the purpose of determining the Persons entitled to consent to any
          indenture supplemental hereto. If a record date is fixed, the Holders
          on such record date or their duly designated proxies, and only such
          Persons, shall be entitled to consent to such supplemental indenture,
          whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date;
          provided, that unless such

consent shall have become effective by virtue of the requisite
          percentage having been obtained prior to the date which is 90 days
          after such record date, any such consent previously given shall
          automatically and without further action by any Holder be canceled and
          of no further effect.

          It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to
          approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture,
          but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance
          thereof.

      3.  Execution of Supplemental Indentures.

          In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any
          supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications
          thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee may
          receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in
          relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such
          supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
          The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such
          supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties
          or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.

      4.  Effect of Supplemental Indentures.

          Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article,
          this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such
          supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all
          purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter
          authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.

      5.  Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.

          Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall
          conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in
          effect.

      6.  Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.

Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any
supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by
the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter
provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine,
new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the
Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and
executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in
exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.

5.

      Covenants

          1.  Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.

              The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of
              Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of
              (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities of that
              series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this
              Indenture.

              The Company shall have the right to require a Holder, in
              connection with the payment of the principal of (and premium, if
              any) or interest, if any, on a Security, to present at the office
              or agency of the Company at which such payment is made a
              certificate, in such form as the Company may from time to time
              prescribe, to enable the Company to determine its duties and
              liabilities with respect to any taxes, assessments or governmental
              charges which it may be required to deduct or withhold therefrom
              under any present or future law of the United States of America or
              of any State, County, Municipality or taxing authority therein,
              and the Company shall be entitled to determine its duties and
              liabilities with respect to such deduction or withholding on the
              basis of information contained in such certificate or, if no such
              certificate shall be so presented, on the basis of any presumption
              created by any such law, and shall be entitled to act in
              accordance with such determination.

          2.  Maintenance of Office or Agency.

              The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of
              New York and in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities
              an office or agency where Securities of that series may be
              presented or surrendered for payment (provided, however, that,
              unless otherwise provided with respect to any series of
              Securities, at the option of the Company payment of interest may
              be made by check mailed to the address of the person entitled
              thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register),
              where Securities of that series may be surrendered for
              registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands
              to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series
              and this Indenture may be served. The Company initially appoints
              the corporate trust office of the Bank as its agent for purposes
              of presentation and surrender of Securities for payment,
              registration of transfer or exchange and for service of notices
              and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of
              a series and this Indenture. The Company will give prompt written
              notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the
              location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company
              shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall
              fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such
              presentations, surrenders, notices

and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the
          Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to
          receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.

          The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other
          offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be
          presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from
          time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no
          such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company
          of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of
          Manhattan, The City of New York and in each Place of Payment for
          Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give
          prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or
          rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office
          or agency.

      3.  Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust.

          If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with
          respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due
          date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any of
          the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the
          benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the
          principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due until such
          sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein
          provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure
          so to act.

          Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any
          series of Securities, it will, prior to each due date of the principal
          of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities of that series,
          deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and
          premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in
          trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal,
          premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the
          Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so
          to act.

          The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities
          other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an
          instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee,
          subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent
          will:

                      1.  hold all sums held by it for the payment of the
                          principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on
                          Securities of that series in trust for the benefit of
                          the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be
                          paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as
                          herein provided;

2.  give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company
                          (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that
                          series) in the making of any payment of principal of
                          (and premium, if any) or interest on the Securities of
                          that series; and

                      3.  at any time during the continuance of any such
                          default, upon the written request of the Trustee,
                          forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust
                          by such Paying Agent.

          The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the
          satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose,
          pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the
          Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent,
          such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon
          which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and,
          upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying
          Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to
          such money.

          Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held
          by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and
          premium, if any) or interest on any Security of any series and
          remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium,
          if any) or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the
          Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be
          discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall
          thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company
          for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying
          Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the
          Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however,
          that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make
          any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be
          published once, in a newspaper published in the English language,
          customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation
          in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, notice that such
          money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein,
          which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such
          publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will
          be repaid to the Company.

      4.  Corporate Existence.

          Except as permitted by the provisions of Article Eight and subject to
          Section 1006, the Company will do or cause to be done all things
          necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate
          existence and that of the Bank and material rights (charter and
          statutory) and material franchises of the Company and the Bank;
          provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve
          any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine
          that the preservation

thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the
          Company and its Subsidiaries considered as a whole, and that the loss
          thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.

      5.  Payment of Taxes and Other Claims.

          The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged,
          before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all taxes, assessments
          and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company and the
          Bank or upon the income, profits or property of the Company and the
          Bank, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies
          which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the
          Company and the Bank; provided, however, that the Company shall not be
          required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any
          such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or
          validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.

      6.  Limitation on Disposition of Stock of Bank.

          So long as any Securities shall be Outstanding, neither the Company
          nor any Intermediate Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined) will (except
          to the Company or an Intermediate Subsidiary) sell, assign, transfer,
          grant a security interest in or otherwise dispose of any shares of,
          securities convertible into, or options, warrants or rights to
          subscribe for or purchase shares of, Voting Stock of the Bank, nor
          will the Company or any Intermediate Subsidiary permit the Bank to
          issue any shares of, or securities convertible into, or options,
          warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Voting
          Stock of the Bank, nor will the Company permit any Intermediate
          Subsidiary that owns any shares of, or securities convertible into, or
          options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of,
          Voting Stock of the Bank to cease to be an Intermediate Subsidiary,
          except that (i) the Company or an Intermediate Subsidiary may make any
          such sale, assignment, transfer, or grant of a security interest or
          other disposition for fair market value on the date thereof, as
          determined by the Board of Directors of the Company or such
          Intermediate Subsidiary, as the case may be (which determination shall
          be conclusive), and evidenced by a duly adopted resolution thereof,
          and (ii) in each such case, after giving effect thereto, the Company
          and any one or more Intermediate Subsidiaries will own at least 80% of
          the Voting Stock of the Bank then issued and outstanding free and
          clear of any security interest. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
          Bank may be merged into or consolidated with another banking
          institution organized under the laws of the United States, any State
          thereof or the District of Columbia, if after giving effect to such
          merger or consolidation the Company and any one or more Intermediate
          Subsidiaries own at least 80% of the Voting Stock of such other
          banking institution and immediately after giving effect thereto

and treating any such resulting bank thereafter as the Bank for
          purposes of this Indenture, no Event of Default, and no event which,
          after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of
          Default, shall have happened and be continuing. For purposes of this
          Section, an "Intermediate Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary (i) that is
          organized under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or
          the District of Columbia, and (ii) of which all the shares of each
          class of capital stock issued and outstanding, and all securities
          convertible into, and options, warrants and rights to subscribe for or
          purchase shares of, such capital stock, are owned directly by the
          Company, free and clear of any security interest.

          The provisions of this Section 1006 shall not prohibit the Company
          from consolidating with or merging into any other Person or from
          conveying, transferring or leasing the Company's properties and assets
          substantially as an entirety to any Person as otherwise permitted
          pursuant to Article Eight.

      7.  Statement as to Compliance.

          The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end
          of each fiscal year of the Company, a written statement, which need
          not comply with Section 102, signed by the Chairman of the Board, a
          Vice Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or a Vice
          President and by the Controller, Assistant Controller, the Secretary
          or an Assistant Secretary of the Company stating, as to each signer
          thereof, that

                      1.  a review of the activities of the Company during such
                          year and of performance under this Indenture has been
                          made under his supervision, and

                      2.  to the best of his knowledge, based on such review,
                          (a) the Company has fulfilled all its obligations
                          under this Indenture throughout such year, or, if
                          there has been a default in the fulfillment of any
                          such obligation, specifying each such default known to
                          him and the nature and status thereof, and (b) no
                          event has occurred and is continuing which is, or
                          after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an
                          Event of Default, or, if such an event has occurred
                          and is continuing, specifying each such event known to
                          him and the nature and status thereof.

      8.  Waiver of Certain Covenants.

          The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any
          term, covenant or condition set forth in Sections 1004 to 1006,
          inclusive, with respect to the Securities of any series if before the
          time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in
          principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall,
          by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance
          or

generally waive compliance with such term, covenant or condition, but no
      such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, covenant or condition
      except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall
      become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the
      Trustee in respect of any such term, covenant or condition shall remain in
      full force and effect.

      The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the
      purpose of determining the Persons entitled to waive any such term,
      provision or condition. If a record date is fixed, the Holders on such
      record date or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall
      be entitled to waive any such term, provision or condition hereunder,
      whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date;
      provided, that unless the Holders of at least a majority in principal
      amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have waived such
      term, provision or condition prior to the date which is 90 days after such
      record date, any such waiver previously given shall automatically and
      without further action by any Holder be canceled and of no further effect.

6.

      Redemption of Securities

          1.  Applicability of Article.

              Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated
              Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and
              (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for
              Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.

          2.  Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.

              The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be
              evidenced by a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the
              election of the Company of fewer than all the Securities of any
              series, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the
              Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice
              shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such
              Redemption Date, of the tenor, if applicable, of the Securities to
              be redeemed, and of the principal amount of Securities of such
              series to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities
              prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption
              provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this
              Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers'
              Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.

          3.  Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed.

              If fewer than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed
              (unless all of the Securities of a specified tenor are to e
              redeemed), the particular

Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days
          prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding
          Securities of such series subject to such redemption and not
          previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall
          deem fair and appropriate (but subject to compliance with the rules of
          any securities exchange on which the securities of such series may be
          listed) and which may provide for the selection for redemption of
          portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities
          of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal
          amount of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the
          minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series. If
          fewer than all of the Securities of such series and of a specified
          tenor are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed
          shall be selected not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date
          by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series and
          specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance
          with the preceding sentence.

          The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the
          Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities
          selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be
          redeemed.

          For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise
          requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities
          shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed
          only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such
          Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.

      4.  Notice of Redemption.

          Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage
          prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the
          Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his
          address appearing in the Security Register.

          All notices of redemption shall state:

                      1.  the Redemption Date,

                      2.  the Redemption Price,

                      3.  if fewer than all the Outstanding Securities of any
                          series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in
                          the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts)
                          of the particular Securities to be redeemed,

                      4.  the CUSIP number of the Securities to be redeemed,

                      5.  that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will
                          become due and payable upon each such Security to be

redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon
                          will cease to accrue on and after said date,

                      6.  the place or places where such Securities are to be
                          surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price, and

                      7.  that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is
                          the case.

          Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of
          the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's
          request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.

      5.  Deposit of Redemption Price.

          Prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the
          Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its
          own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section
          1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of,
          and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date)
          accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on
          that date.

      6.  Securities Payable on Redemption Date.

          Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so
          to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable
          at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such
          date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the
          Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to
          bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in
          accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the
          Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the
          Redemption Date; provided, however, that installments of interest
          whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be
          payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor
          Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the
          relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of
          Section 307.

          If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon
          surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any)
          shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate
          prescribed therefor in the Security.

      7.  Securities Redeemed in Part.

   Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a
   Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires,
   due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory
   to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his
   attorney

duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee
   shall authenticate and make available for delivery to the Holder of such
   Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same
   series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such
   Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the
   unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered. If a
   Global Security is so surrendered, such new Security so issued shall be a new
   Global Security.

7.

   Sinking Funds

      1.  Applicability of Article.

          The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund
          for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise
          specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such
          series.

          The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the
          terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a
          "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such
          minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series
          is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If
          provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount
          of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in
          Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the
          redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of
          Securities of such series.

      2.  Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.

          The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other
          than any previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a
          credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the
          election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or
          through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments
          pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction
          of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the
          Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of
          such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; provided
          that such Securities have not been previously so credited; provided
          further that, in the case of (1) above, with respect to any
          Outstanding Securities so delivered, and in the case of (2) above,
          with respect to any such Securities so credited, such Outstanding
          Securities or Securities, as the case may be, be Securities subject to
          the sinking fund payment required to be made with respect to the
          Securities of such series. Such Securities shall be received and
          credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price
          specified in such

Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and
          the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.

      3.  Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.

   Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series
   of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers'
   Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment
   for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if
   any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if
   any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that
   series pursuant to Section 1202 and will also deliver to the Trustee any
   Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 45 days before each such sinking
   fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon
   such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and
   cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the
   expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice
   having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon
   the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.

8.

   Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance

      1.  Applicability of Article; Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or
          Covenant Defeasance.

If pursuant to Section 301 provision is made for either or both of (a)
          defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 1302 or (b)
          covenant defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 1303,
          then the provisions of such Section or Sections, as the case may be,
          together with the other provisions of this Article Thirteen, shall be
          applicable to the Securities of such series, and the Company may at
          its option by Board Resolution, at any time, with respect to the
          Securities of such series, elect to have either Section 1302 (if
          applicable) or Section 1303 (if applicable) be applied to the
          Outstanding Securities of such series upon compliance with the
          conditions set forth below in this Article Thirteen.

      2.  Defeasance and Discharge.

          Upon the Company's exercise of the above option applicable to this
          Section, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its
          obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series
          on and after the date the conditions precedent set forth below are
          satisfied but subject to satisfaction of the conditions subsequent set
          forth below (hereinafter, "defeasance"). For this purpose, such
          defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and
          discharged the entire

indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series
          and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities
          and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the
          Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper
          instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which
          shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A)
          the rights of Holders of the series of Securities defeased pursuant to
          this Section 1302 to receive, solely from the trust fund described in
          Section 1304 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments of
          the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Securities
          when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect
          to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003 and
          such obligations as shall be ancillary thereto, (C) the rights,
          powers, trusts, duties, immunities and other provisions in respect of
          the Trustee hereunder and (D) this Article Thirteen. Subject to
          compliance with this Article Thirteen, the Company may exercise its
          option under this Section 1302 notwithstanding the prior exercise of
          its option under Section 1303 with respect to the Securities of such
          series. Following a defeasance, payment of the Securities of such
          series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default.

      3.  Covenant Defeasance.

          Upon the Company's exercise of the above option applicable to this
          Section, the Company shall be released from its obligations under
          Section 1005 and Section 1006, (and any other Sections applicable to
          such Securities that are determined pursuant to Section 301 to be
          subject to this provision) and the occurrence of an event of default
          specified in Section 501(4) (insofar as it is with respect to Section
          1005 and Section 1006 or any other Section applicable to such
          Securities that are determined pursuant to Section 301 to be subject
          to this provision) or Section 501(5) shall be deemed not to be an
          Event of Default with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such
          series on and after the date the conditions precedent set forth below
          are satisfied but subject to satisfaction of the conditions subsequent
          set forth below (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"). For this
          purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to the
          Outstanding Securities of such series, the Company may omit to comply
          with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or
          limitation set forth in any such Section, whether directly or
          indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such
          Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other
          provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this
          Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby. Following a
          covenant defeasance, payment of the Securities of such series may not
          be accelerated because of an Event of Default specified in Section
          501(5) or by reference to such other Section specified above in this
          Section 1303.

4.  Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.

          The following shall be the conditions precedent or, as specifically
          noted below, subsequent to application of either Section 1302 or
          Section 1303 to the Outstanding Securities of such series:

                      1.  The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused
                          to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee
                          satisfying the requirements of Section 609 who shall
                          agree to comply with the provisions of this Article
                          Thirteen applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for
                          the purpose of making the following payments,
                          specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated
                          solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such
                          Securities, (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S.
                          Government Obligations which through the scheduled
                          payment of principal and interest in respect thereof
                          in accordance with their terms will provide, not later
                          than one day before the due date of any payment, money
                          in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof,
                          sufficient, without reinvestment, in the opinion of a
                          nationally recognized firm of independent public
                          accountants expressed in a written certification
                          thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and
                          discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee
                          (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge,
                          (i) the principal of (and premium, if any) and
                          interest on the Outstanding Securities of such series
                          to maturity or redemption, as the case may be, and
                          (ii) any mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous
                          payments applicable to the Outstanding Securities of
                          such series on the due dates thereof. Before such a
                          deposit the Company may make arrangements satisfactory
                          to the Trustee for the redemption of Securities at a
                          future date or dates in accordance with Article
                          Eleven, which shall be given effect in applying the
                          foregoing. For this purpose, "U.S. Government
                          Obligations" means securities that are (x) direct
                          obligations of the United States of America for the
                          payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged
                          or (y) obligations of a Person controlled or
                          supervised by and acting as an agency or
                          instrumentality of the United States of America the
                          payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a
                          full faith and credit obligation by the United States
                          of America, which, in either case, are not callable or
                          redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and
                          shall also include a depository receipt issued by a
                          bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities
                          Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to
                          any such U.S. Government

Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or
                          interest on any such U.S. Government Obligation held
                          by such custodian for the account of the holder of
                          such depository receipt, provided that (except as
                          required by law) such custodian is not authorized to
                          make any deduction from the amount payable to the
                          holder of such depository receipt from any amount
                          received by the custodian in respect of the U.S.
                          Government Obligation or the specific payment of
                          principal of or interest on the U.S. Government
                          Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.

                      2.  No Event of Default or event which with notice or
                          lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default
                          with respect to the Securities of such series shall
                          have occurred and be continuing (A) on the date of
                          such deposit or (B) insofar as subsections 501(6) and
                          (7) are concerned, at any time during the period
                          ending on the 123rd day after the date of such deposit
                          or, if longer, ending on the day following the
                          expiration of the longest preference period applicable
                          to the Company in respect of such deposit (it being
                          understood that the condition in this clause (B) is a
                          condition subsequent and shall not be deemed satisfied
                          until the expiration of such period).

                      3.  Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not (A)
                          cause the Trustee for the Securities of such series to
                          have a conflicting interest as defined in Section 608
                          or for purposes of the Trust Indenture Act with
                          respect to any securities of the Company or (B) result
                          in the trust arising from such deposit to constitute,
                          unless it is qualified as, a regulated investment
                          company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as
                          amended.

                      4.  Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not
                          result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a
                          default under, this Indenture or any other agreement
                          or instrument to which the Company is a party or by
                          which it is bound.

                      5.  Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not cause
                          any Securities of such series then listed on any
                          registered national securities exchange under the
                          Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to be
                          delisted.

                      6.  In the case of an election under Section 1302, the
                          Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion
                          of Counsel stating that (x) the Company has received
                          from, or there has been published by, the Internal
                          Revenue Service a ruling, or (y) since the date of
                          this Indenture there has been a change in the
                          applicable Federal income tax law, in either case to
                          the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall
                          confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding
                          Securities of

such series will not recognize income, gain or loss
                          for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such
                          defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax
                          on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the
                          same times as would have been the case if such
                          defeasance had not occurred.

                      7.  In the case of an election under Section 1303, the
                          Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion
                          of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the
                          Outstanding Securities of such series will not
                          recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax
                          purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and
                          will be subject to Federal income tax on the same
                          amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as
                          would have been the case if such covenant defeasance
                          had not occurred.

                      8.  Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be
                          effected in compliance with any additional terms,
                          conditions or limitations which may be imposed on the
                          Company in connection therewith pursuant to Section
                          301.

                      9.  The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an
                          Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each
                          stating that all conditions precedent provided for
                          relating to either the defeasance under Section 1302
                          or the covenant defeasance under Section 1303 (as the
                          case may be) have been complied with.

      5.  Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust;
          Other Miscellaneous Provisions.

Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and
U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the
Trustee (or other qualifying trustee collectively, for purposes of this Section
1305, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1304 in respect of the Outstanding
Securities of such series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in
accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the
payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (but not including the
Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the
Holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect
of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, but such money need not be
segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.

The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other
charge imposed on or assessed against the money or U.S. Government Obligations
deposited pursuant to Section 1304 or the principal and interest received in
respect thereof.

Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or
pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S.
Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 1304 which, in the
opinion of a nationally

recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written
certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount
thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent
defeasance or covenant defeasance.

Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, if and to the extent the
deposited money or U.S. Government Obligations (or the proceeds thereof) either
(i) cannot be applied by the Trustee in accordance with this Section because of
a court order or (ii) are for any reason insufficient in amount, then the
Company's obligations to pay principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on
the Securities of such series shall be reinstated to the extent necessary to
cover the deficiency on any due date for payment. In any case specified in
clause (i), the Company's interest in the deposited money and U.S. Government
Obligations (and proceeds thereof) shall be reinstated to the extent the
Company's payment obligations are reinstated.

This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so
executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall
together constitute but one and the same instrument.

In Witness Whereof, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly
executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and
attested, all as of the day and year first above written.

Chemical Banking Corporation

By

[Corporate Seal]

Attest:

The Chase Manhattan Bank

(National Association)

By

[Corporate Seal]

Attest:

State of New York)

)SS.:
County Of New York )

On the day of , , before me personally came , to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is of Chemical Banking Corporation one of the
corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instruments; that he
knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is
such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by authority of the Board of
Directors of said corporation, and that he signed his name thereto by like
authority.

Notary Public in and for said State

[Notarial Seal]

State Of New York)

)SS.:
County Of New York)

On the day of , , before me personally came , to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is of The Chase Manhattan Bank (National
Association) one of the corporations described in and which executed the
foregoing instrument; that he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal
affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that he signed his
name thereto by like authority.

Notary Public in and for said State

[Notarial Seal]

</EX-4.1.A>

<EX-4.1.C>
 3
 y74757exv4w1wc.htm
 EX-4.1.C: FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

EX-4.1.C 

Exhibit 4.1(c) 

JPMORGAN CHASE   CO.

(formerly known as Chemical Banking Corporation)

AND

DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS

(formerly known as Bankers Trust Company,

as successor to The Chase Manhattan Corporation),

as Trustee

FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

Dated as of December 22, 2008

to

INDENTURE

Dated as of December 1, 1989

SENIOR DEBT SECURITIES

FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of December 9, 2008, between JPMORGAN CHASE   CO.
(formerly known as Chemical Banking Corporation), a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ),
and DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS (formerly known as Bankers Trust Company), a New York
banking corporation, as successor to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), as trustee
(the   Trustee ,  which term shall include any successor trustee appointed pursuant to
Article Six of the Indenture hereafter referred to). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined
herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture).

RECITALS OF THE COMPANY

The Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered a certain Indenture, dated
as of December 1, 1989 (the  Base Indenture ), as supplemented by the Agreement of Resignation,
Appointment and Acceptance, dated as of March 29, 1996, and as amended by the First Supplemental
Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2007, the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 2,
2008, the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 9, 2008, and the Fourth Supplemental
Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2008 (as supplemented and amended, the  Indenture ), providing
for the issuance from time to time of Securities;

Section 901(5) of the Base Indenture provides that, without the consent of any Holders of any
Securities, the Company, when authorized by Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from
time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental to the Indenture, in form
satisfactory to the Trustee, to change or eliminate any of the provisions of the Indenture,
provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security
Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is
entitled to the benefit of such provision;

Section 201 of the Base Indenture provides that, without the consent of any Holders of any
Securities, the Company, when authorized by Board Resolution or in one or more indentures
supplemental to the Indenture, may establish the form of Securities of any series, in each case
with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or
permitted by the Indenture;

The Company desires and has requested that the Trustee join in the execution of this Fifth
Supplemental Indenture for the purpose of amending certain provisions of the Indenture and
establishing the form of certain Securities as hereinafter set forth;

The execution and delivery of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture has been authorized by a Board
Resolution of the Company; and

All conditions precedent and requirements necessary to make this Fifth Supplemental Indenture
a valid and legally binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been complied with,
performed and fulfilled and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects duly
authorized;

1 

NOW, THEREFORE, THIS FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH:

For and in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it is
mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of
Securities of the applicable series referred to below, as follows:

ARTICLE ONE

REPRESENTATIONS OF THE COMPANY

The Company represents and warrants to the Trustee as follows:

SECTION 1.1.   The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.

The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture
have been authorized and approved by all necessary corporate action on the part of it.

ARTICLE TWO

SCOPE OF THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

SECTION 2.1.   The changes, modifications and supplements to the Indenture effected by this
Supplemental Indenture shall only be applicable with respect to, and govern the terms of, the
FDIC-Guaranteed Series (as defined herein), and shall not apply to any other series of Securities.

ARTICLE THREE

AMENDMENTS

SECTION 3.1.   Section 101 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by adding the following
definitions:

Authorized Representative  has the meaning specified in Section 1403.

Debt Guarantee Program  has the meaning specified in Section 1402.

Effective Period  has the meaning specified in Section 1406.

FDIC  means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a corporation organized under
the laws of the United States.

2 

FDIC-Guaranteed Series  means any series of Securities that is issued on or after the
date hereof and is guaranteed by the FDIC pursuant to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
Program.

Master Agreement  has the meaning specified in Section 1408.

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program  means the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program
established pursuant to 12 C.F.R. Part 370.

SECTION 3.2.   Section 202 of the Base Indenture shall not apply to the FDIC-Guaranteed Series
and the Form of Face of Note relating to the FDIC-Guaranteed Series attached hereto as Annex A
shall hereby be inserted with respect to the FDIC-Guaranteed Series in lieu thereof.

SECTION 3.3.   Section 203 of the Base Indenture shall not apply to the FDIC-Guaranteed Series
and the Form of Reverse of Note relating to the FDIC-Guaranteed Series attached hereto as Annex A
shall hereby be inserted with respect to the FDIC-Guaranteed Series in lieu thereof.

SECTION 3.4.   Sections 501(A)(1) and 501(A)(2) of the Base Indenture shall not apply to the
FDIC-Guaranteed Series and the following paragraphs shall hereby be inserted with respect to the
FDIC-Guaranteed Series in lieu thereof:

(1) default (a) by the Company in the payment of interest, if any, upon any
Security of that series when it becomes due and payable and continuance of such
default for a period of 30 days and (b) by the FDIC in the payment of interest, if
any, upon any Security of that series in accordance with the Temporary Liquidity
Guarantee Program (12 C.F.R. Part 370); or

(2) default (a) by the Company in the payment of the principal of (or premium,
if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity and (b) by the FDIC in the
payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series in
accordance with the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (12 C.F.R. Part 370); or

SECTION 3.5.   The first paragraph of Section 502 of the Base Indenture shall not apply to the
FDIC-Guaranteed Series and the following paragraph shall hereby be inserted with respect to the
FDIC-Guaranteed Series in lieu thereof:

If an Event of Default specified in Sections 501(A)(1) or 501(A)(2) occurs and is
continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than
25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the
principal amount (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount
Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of
that series) of all of the Securities of that series to be due and payable

3 

immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by
Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount)
shall become immediately due and payable.

SECTION 3.6.   The Base Indenture is hereby amended by adding the following Article Fourteen
with respect to the FDIC-Guaranteed Series immediately following Article Thirteen.

ARTICLE FOURTEEN 

Certain Matters Pertaining to the FDIC-Guaranteed Series 

Section 1401.  Applicability .

The provisions of this Article Fourteen shall apply to each FDIC-Guaranteed Series
issued under this Indenture, but shall not apply to any other series of Securities.

Section 1402.  Acknowledgement of the FDIC s Debt Guarantee Program .

The parties to this Indenture acknowledge that the Company has not opted out of
the Debt Guarantee Program as set forth in 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (the  Debt Guarantee
Program ) established by the FDIC under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.

As a result, this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity
Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC s regulations, 12 C.F.R.
Part 370, and at the FDIC s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the
FDIC s guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012.  

Section 1403.  Trustee Designated as Representative .

The Trustee is designated under this Indenture as the duly authorized
representative of the Holders for purposes of making claims and taking other
permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the  Authorized
Representative ).   Any Holder may elect not to be represented by the Authorized
Representative by providing written notice of such election to the Authorized
Representative (it being understood that such election shall not affect the
Trustee s capacity hereunder except as the representative of such Holder under the
Debt Guarantee Program).  The Company hereby authorizes and directs the Authorized
Representative to take all actions on behalf of the Holders that the Authorized
Representative is required or empowered to take on behalf of the Holders pursuant to
the Debt Guarantee Program, including, without limitation, in the event the Company
fails to make any payment in respect of Securities of an FDIC-Guaranteed Series on
the date such payment is due, to take all reasonable

4 

actions to pursue guarantee payments from the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee
Program.

In particular, (i) on the 30th day from the date the Company defaults in
payment of interest, which default has not been cured by the Company by such 30th
day, or (ii) no later than the fourth (4th) business day after Maturity, in the case
of default in principal, the Authorized Representative shall make a demand on behalf
of the Holders to the FDIC for payment of the guaranteed amount under the Debt
Guarantee Program. Such demand shall be accompanied by a proof of claim, which
shall include evidence, to the extent not previously provided in the Master
Agreement, in form and content satisfactory to the FDIC, of: (A) the Authorized
Representative s financial and organizational capacity to act as representative
under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program; (B) the Authorized Representative s
exclusive authority to act on behalf of the Holders and its fiduciary responsibility
to the Holders when acting as such, as established by the terms of this Indenture;
(C) the occurrence of a payment default with respect to Securities of an
FDIC-Guaranteed Series; and (D) the authority to make an assignment of the Holders 
right, title, and interest in the Securities of the applicable FDIC-Guaranteed
Series to the FDIC and to effect the transfer to the FDIC of the Holder s claim in
any insolvency proceeding. Such assignment shall include the right of the FDIC to
receive any and all distributions on the Securities of the applicable
FDIC-Guaranteed Series from the proceeds of the receivership or bankruptcy estate.
Any demand under this Section 1403 shall be made in writing and directed to the
Director, Division of Resolution and Receiverships, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, Washington, D.C., and shall include all supporting evidences as
provided in this Section 1403, and shall certify to the accuracy thereof.

Section 1404.  Subrogation of the FDIC .

The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the Holders and the
Authorized Representative under this Indenture against the Company in respect of any
amounts paid to the Holders, or for the benefit of the Holders, under any
FDIC-Guaranteed Series by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.

Section 1405.  Assignment upon Guarantee Payment .

The Holders hereby authorize the Authorized Representative, at such time as the
FDIC shall commence making any guarantee payments to the Authorized Representative
for the benefit of the Holders of any FDIC-Guaranteed Series pursuant to the Debt
Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Indenture
as Annex C pursuant to which the Authorized Representative shall assign to the FDIC
its right to receive any and all payments from the Company under this Indenture on
behalf of the Holders of such FDIC-Guaranteed Series. The Issuer hereby consents and
agrees that the FDIC is an

5 

acceptable transferee for all or any portion of payments made in respect of the
FDIC-Guaranteed Series for all purposes of this Indenture and upon any such
assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed a Holder under this Indenture for all purposes
hereof, and the Company hereby agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary
to comply with any relevant provision of this Indenture as a result of such
assignment.

Section 1406.  Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC .

If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which any
FDIC-Guaranteed Series is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program
(the  Effective Period ), payment in full with respect to any Security of such
FDIC-Guaranteed Series shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the
outstanding principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, the Holder
shall, or the Holder shall cause the person or entity in possession to, promptly
surrender to the FDIC the certificate, note or other instrument evidencing such
Security, if any.

Section 1407.  Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default .

If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment
obligations in respect of any FDIC-Guaranteed Series, or (b) expiration of the
Effective Period with respect to thereto, the Company is in default of any payment
obligation in respect of such FDIC-Guaranteed Series hereunder or under the
Securities of such series, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid
interest in respect of the Securities of such FDIC-Guaranteed Series, without regard
to any cure period, the Authorized Representative covenants and agrees that it shall
provide written notice to the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment
default at the address set forth below, or at such other address or by such other
means of delivery as the FDIC may specify from time to time:

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Deputy Director, Receivership Operations Branch 
Division of Resolutions and Receiverships 
Attention: Master Agreement 
550 17th Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20429

Section 1408.  Ranking .

Any indebtedness of the Company to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the
Master Agreement entered into by the Company and the FDIC in connection with the
Debt Guarantee Program (the  Master Agreement ) will constitute a senior unsecured
general obligation of the Company, ranking  pari passu  with Securities of any
FDIC-Guaranteed Series issued hereunder.

6 

Section 1409.  No Modifications without FDIC Consent .

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Article Nine, without the
express written consent of the FDIC, the parties hereto agree not to amend, modify,
supplement or waive any provision in this Indenture or the Securities that is
related to the principal or interest payment, default or ranking of the Securities
of any FDIC-Guaranteed Series; that is required to be included herein or therein
pursuant to the Master Agreement; or any provision herein or therein that would
require the consent of each Holder of Securities of such series.

SECTION 3.7.   The Indenture is hereby amended by attaching as Annex C thereto the
Form of Assignment attached to this Fifth Supplemental Indenture as Annex C.

7 

ARTICLE FOUR

MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 4.1.   Except as amended hereby, the Indenture and the Securities are in all
respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms thereof shall remain in full force and
effect and the Indenture, as so amended, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the
same instrument.

SECTION 4.2.   The Trustee accepts the modification of the Indenture effected by this Fifth
Supplemental Indenture, but only upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness
of the recitals herein contained, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company.

SECTION 4.3.   If and to the extent that any provision of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture
limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision included in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture
or in the Indenture that is required to be included in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture or the
Indenture by any of the provisions of Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act of
1939, such required provision shall control.

SECTION 4.4.   Nothing in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture is intended to or shall provide
any rights to any parties other than those expressly contemplated by this Fifth Supplemental
Indenture.

SECTION 4.5.   This Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be a contract made under
the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of said State.

SECTION 4.6.   This Fifth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

8 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fifth Supplemental Indenture to be
duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested all as of
the day and year first above written.

JPMORGAN CHASE   CO. 

By   

Name:   
     Tod J. Gordon  

Title:   
     Managing Director  

(Corporate Seal)

Attest:

Assistant Secretary

DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY

AMERICAS, as Trustee

(Corporate Seal)

Attest:

Annex A  

Registered 

Registered  

JPMORGAN CHASE   CO. 
 __   FLOATING RATE  GUARANTEED NOTES DUE  __ 

This Security is not a Deposit or other obligation of a depository institution. This Security is
guaranteed under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ) s Temporary Liquidity
Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of
the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC s regulations, 12 C.F.R. Part 370, and at the FDIC s
website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the FDIC s guarantee is the earlier of the
maturity date of this Security or June 30, 2012.

for Securities sold in the United States, insert the following legends :

This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and
is registered in the name of Cede   Co., the nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the
 Depositary ). This Global Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a
Person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the
Indenture, and no transfer of this Security (other than a transfer of this Security as a whole by
the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary
or another nominee of the Depositary) may be registered except in such limited circumstances. The
Depositary will not sell, assign, transfer or otherwise convey any beneficial interest in this
Global Security unless such beneficial interest is in an amount equal to an authorized denomination
for Securities of the series, and the Depositary, by its acceptance hereof, agrees to be so bound.

Unless this Security is presented by an authorized representative of the Depositary to JPMorgan
Chase   Co. or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Security issued
is registered in the name of Cede   Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized
representative of the Depositary (and any payment is made to Cede   Co. or to such other entity as
is an authorized representative of the Depositary), any transfer, pledge or other use hereof for
value or otherwise by or to any person is wrongful since the registered owner hereof, Cede   Co.,
has an interest herein. 

for Securities sold outside the United States, insert the following legends: 

THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE  SECURITIES ACT ), AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD WITHIN
THE UNITED STATES OR TO OR FOR THE BENEFIT OF U.S. PERSONS (EACH AS DEFINED IN REGULATION S OF THE
SECURITIES ACT).

THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND
IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF

THE BANK OF NEW YORK DEPOSITORY (NOMINEES) LIMITED , THE NOMINEE OF EUROCLEAR BANK S.A./N.V.
( EUROCLEAR ) AND CLEARSTREAM BANKING, SOCI T  ANONYME ( CLEARSTREAM , AND TOGETHER WITH EUROCLEAR,
THE  CLEARING SYSTEMS ). THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE
NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN A NOMINEE FOR THE CLEARING SYSTEMS IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES
DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS
SECURITY AS A WHOLE BY THE NOMINEE OF THE CLEARING SYSTEMS TO ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE CLEARING
SYSTEMS) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN SUCH LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES. THE NOMINEE AND  THE BANK OF NEW
YORK MELLON , AS COMMON DEPOSITARY FOR THE CLEARING SYSTEMS, WILL NOT SELL, ASSIGN, TRANSFER OR
OTHERWISE CONVEY ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN THIS GLOBAL SECURITY UNLESS SUCH BENEFICIAL INTEREST IS
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO AN AUTHORIZED DENOMINATION FOR SECURITIES OF THE SERIES, AND THE NOMINEE AND
COMMON DEPOSITARY FOR THE CLEARING SYSTEMS, BY THEIR ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES TO BE SO BOUND.

UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF EUROCLEAR OR CLEARSTREAM,
TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE
ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ITS AUTHORIZED NOMINEE OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF EUROCLEAR OR CLEARSTREAM (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO ITS AUTHORIZED
NOMINEE, OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF EUROCLEAR OR
CLEARSTREAM) ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS
WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, ITS AUTHORIZED NOMINEE, HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO
NOMINEES OF EUROCLEAR OR CLEARSTREAM OR TO SUCCESSORS THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR S NOMINEES AND
TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF. 

R-  

$        /        
CUSIP No:       
ISIN No:      

3 

JPMorgan Chase   Co., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (herein called the  Company , which term includes any successor corporation under the
Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to

for Securities sold outside the United States, insert   THE BANK OF NEW YORK DEPOSITORY (NOMINEES)
LIMITED 

for Securities sold in the United States, insert   CEDE   CO. , or registered assigns, 
the principal sum of

__  ($ __ )

on      ,      , on the terms and in the manner described on the reverse hereof, and to pay interest,
  for Securities with fixed rate interest, insert :  semi- annually in arrears on        and       of
each year, commencing      , 200 _ , and at maturity on said principal sum, at the rate of       per
annum from the next preceding        or       ,  as the case may be,  unless no interest has been
paid on this Security, in which case from      , 200 _ , until the payment of said principal sum has
been made or duly provided for; provided, however, that if the Company shall default in the payment
of interest due on such        or       , then this Security shall bear interest from the next
preceding        or        to which interest has been paid, or, if no interest has been paid on this
Security, from      , 2008. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on
any interest payment date shall, as provided in the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof, be
paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is
registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be
the        or        (whether or not a Business Day),  as the case may be,  next preceding such       
or       . 

for Securities with floating rate interest, insert :   quarterly, monthly, semi-annually or
annually  in arrears on       of each year, commencing      , 200 _  at a floating rate equal to the
      rate plus      % per annum. The period beginning on and including      , 200 _  and ending on
but excluding the first interest payment date and each successive period beginning on and including
an interest payment date and ending on but excluding the next interest payment date is an  interest
period.       , as calculation agent, shall calculate the interest rate for each interest period
based on      , prior to the first day of such interest period. The interest so payable, and
punctually paid or duly provided for, on any interest payment date shall, as provided in the
Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or
one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record
Date for such interest, which shall be the       day of the month preceding the month in which the
interest payment date occurs. 

Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable
to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this
Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a
Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice
whereof shall be given to the Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to

4 

such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with
the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed,
and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said
Indenture.

Payment of principal of and any such interest on this Security shall be made at the office or
agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in   for Securities sold in the United States,
insert:  the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United
States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private
debts    for Securities sold outside the United States on a Reg 144A or Reg S Basis, insert: 
 London, in  Pounds Sterling or in such other coin or currency of the United Kingdom  /  Euro or in
such coin or currency that is the lawful currency of the member states of the European Union that
adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty of Rome of March 25, 1957 establishing the
European Community (as amended and supplemented from time to time) and as at the time of payment is
legal tender for the payment of public and private debts  provided, however, that at the option of
the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled
thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.

Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse
hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at
this place.

Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the
reverse hereof, or an Authenticating Agent, by manual signature, this Security shall not be
entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

Balance of Page Intentionally Blank  

5 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its
corporate seal.

Date:  __ 

JPMORGAN CHASE   CO.

By:

Name: 
Title:

Attest:

Name: 
Title:

Seal 

TRUSTEE S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein 
referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.

DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS (formerly known as Bankers Trust Company), 
AS TRUSTEE

By THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 
as Authenticating Agent

By:
  Authorized Officer

6 

Annex B 

REVERSE OF SECURITY 

__   FLOATING RATE  GUARANTEED NOTES DUE  __ 

This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of senior debt securities of the Company (herein
called the  Securities ) of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and
pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of December 1, 1989 (as supplemented by the Agreement of
Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated as of March 29, 1996), as amended by the First
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2007, the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as
of December 2, 2008, the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 9, 2008, the Fourth
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2008, and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated
as of December 22, 2008 (as amended and supplemented, the  Indenture ), between the Company and
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (formerly known as Bankers Trust Company), as trustee (the
 Trustee  which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), duly executed and
delivered by the Company. Reference is hereby made to the Indenture and all indentures
supplemental thereto for a description of the respective rights, limitations of rights,
obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company, the holders of Senior
Indebtedness and Additional Senior Obligations and the holders of the Securities. Terms defined in
the Indenture are used herein as so defined. The Securities may be issued in one or more series,
which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at
different times, may bear interest, if any, at different rates, may be subject to different
redemption provisions, if any, may be subject to different sinking funds, if any, may be subject to
different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as provided in the Indenture.
This Security is one of the series designated as the        Floating Rate  Guaranteed Notes due      
of the Company (herein called the  Notes ), which series shall have a current aggregate principal
amount of      , which principal amount may be increased from time to time through the issuance of
additional Notes.

This Security is not redeemable prior to maturity and is not subject to any sinking fund. 

for Securities with fixed rate interest, insert : Interest on this Security shall be computed on
the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. 

If an Event of Default concerning: (1) default (a) by the Company in the payment of interest, if
any, upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable and continuance of such
default for a period of 30 days and (b) by the FDIC in the payment of interest, if any, upon any
Security of that series in accordance with the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (12 C.F.R.
Part 370); or (2) default (a) by the Company in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if
any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity and (b) by the FDIC in the payment of the
principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series in accordance with the Temporary
Liquidity Guarantee Program (12 C.F.R. Part 370) shall occur and is continuing, the principal of
the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect
provided in the Indenture. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable
and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal and overdue

7 

interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally
enforceable), all of the Company s obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and
interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.

The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the
modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the
Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the
Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the
time Outstanding of each series to be affected;  provided, however,  that the express written consent
of the FDIC will be required to amend, modify or waive any provision of the Securities that
comprise the FDIC-Guaranteed Series or the provisions of the Indenture relating to principal,
interest, default or ranking provisions of such Securities; any provisions of the notes or the
Indenture required to be included by a  Master Agreement  between the Company and the FDIC relating
to the Company s participation in the  Debt Guarantee Program  component of the FDIC s Temporary
Liquidity Guarantee Program; or any other provision that would require the consent of all holders
of the Securities. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified
percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf
of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain
provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.
Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such
Holder and upon all future holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation
of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.

No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall
alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the
principal of and interest (if any) on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin
or currency, herein prescribed.

As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of
this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for
registration of transfer in any place where the principal of and interest (if any) on this Security
are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form
satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his
attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of
authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, shall be issued to the
designated transferee or transferees.

The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in
denominations of  $2,000 and any larger integral multiples of $1,000     /        and any larger
multiples of   /       . As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of
Securities of this series of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the
Holder surrendering the same.

8 

No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company
may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in
connection therewith.

Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee
and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is
registered as the owner hereof and for all purposes, whether or not this Security shall be overdue,
and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the
contrary.

No recourse for the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on this Security
or for any claim based hereon or otherwise in respect hereof, and no recourse under or upon any
obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or any indenture supplemental
thereto or in this Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby,
shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or
future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Company, or
any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law or by the
enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance
hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released by each
holder of this Security.

By the acceptance of this Security, the Holder hereof hereby agrees to the appointment of the
Trustee as its Authorized Representative for purposes of making claims and taking all actions
permitted or required under the Debt Guarantee Program and in accordance with the terms of, and
under the circumstances set forth in, the Indenture. Any Holder may elect not to be represented by
the Authorized Representative by providing written notice of such election to the Authorized
Representative (it being understood that such election shall not affect the Trustee s capacity
under the Indenture except as the representative of such Holder under the Debt Guarantee Program).

All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned
to them in the Indenture.

This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New
York.

9 

Annex C  

FORM OF ASSIGNMENT 1  

This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section 1405 of the Indenture, dated as of
December 1, 1989, as supplemented by the Agreement of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance,
dated as of March 29, 1996, and as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
November 1, 2007, the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 2, 2008, the Third
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 9, 2008, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as
of December 12, 2008, and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 22, 2008 (as
amended and supplemented, the  Indenture ), between JPMORGAN CHASE   CO. (formerly known as
Chemical Banking Corporation), a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), and DEUTSCHE BANK
TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS (formerly known as Bankers Trust Company), (the   Trustee  ), acting
on behalf of the Holders of the Securities issued under the Indenture who have not opted out of
representation by the Trustee (the   Holders  ) with respect to  designate series  (the
  Assigned FDIC-Guaranteed Series  ). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined
herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Indenture.

For value received, the Trustee, on behalf of the Holders (the   Assignor  ), hereby
assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the   FDIC  ), without recourse, all of
the Assignor s respective rights, title and interest in and to: (a) the certificates or other
instruments evidencing the Securities of the Assigned  FDIC-Guaranteed  Series issued under
the Indenture (the   Notes   (b) the Indenture; and (c) any other instrument or agreement
executed by the Company regarding obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture
(collectively, the   Assignment  ).

The Assignor hereby certifies that:

1. Without the FDIC s prior written consent, the Assignor has not:

(a) agreed to any material amendment of the Notes or the Indenture or to any
material deviation from the provisions thereof; or

(b) accelerated the maturity of the Notes.

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in the
Notes and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation. 

2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Notes or
Indenture;

1  
       
     This Form of Assignment shall be modified as
appropriate if the assignment is being made by an individual Holder rather than
the Trustee or if the debt being assigned is not in certificated form or
otherwise represented by a written instrument. 

10 

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Notes
and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation. 

2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Notes and
the Indenture to                        pursuant to the                        agreement, dated as of
                      , 20   , between                       , as assignor, and                       , as assignee, an
executed copy of which is attached hereto.

The Assignor acknowledges and agrees that this Assignment is subject to the Indenture and to
the following:

1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Notes or the
Indenture from a party other than the FDIC (a   Non-FDIC Payment  ):

(a) after the date of demand for a guarantee payment on the FDIC pursuant to 12
C.F.R. Part 370, but prior to the date of the FDIC s first guarantee payment under
the Indenture pursuant to 12 C.F.R. Part 370, the Assignor shall promptly but in no
event later than four (4) Business Days after receipt notify the FDIC of the date
and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such payment as payment made
by the Company, and not as a guarantee payment made by the FDIC, and therefore, the
amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and

(b) after the FDIC s first guarantee payment under the Indenture, the Assignor
shall forward promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the
payment instructions provided in writing by the FDIC.

2. Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on
behalf of the Holders shall constitute a release by such Holders of any liability of the
FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program with respect to such payment.

The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and
warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.

******

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this instrument to be executed and delivered this
    day of                       , 20   .

Very truly yours, 

ASSIGNOR  

By: 

(Signature)

Name: 

11 

(Print) 

Title: 

(Print)

12 

Consented
to and acknowledged by this     day of                       , 20   :

THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

By:

(Signature)

Name:

(Print)

Title:

(Print)

13 

</EX-4.1.C>

<EX-4.4.A>
 4
 y74757exv4w4wa.txt
 EX-4.4.A: JUNIOR SUBORDINATED INDENTURE

Exhibit 4.4(a)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION

TO

THE BANK OF NEW YORK

TRUSTEE

------------------------------------------------

JUNIOR SUBORDINATED INDENTURE

DATED AS OF            , 1996

              ------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION

         Reconciliation and tie between the Trust Indenture Act of 1939
(including cross-references to provisions of Sections 310 to and including 317
which, pursuant to Section 318(c) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended
by the Trust Reform Act of 1990, are a part of and govern the Indenture whether
or not physically contained therein) and the Junior Subordinated Indenture,
dated as of              , 199 .

Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a
      part of the Junior Subordinated Indenture.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                -----------------

- i -

Page
                                                                                                               ----
                                                                                                              
                                                    ARTICLE IV.................................................. 32
         SECTION 4.1.   Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture. ............................................... 32
         SECTION 4.2.   Application of Trust Money. ............................................................ 34

                                                     ARTICLE V.................................................. 34
         SECTION 5.1.   Events of Default. ..................................................................... 34
         SECTION 5.2.   Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment. .................................... 35
         SECTION 5.3.   Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by
                  Trustee. ..................................................................................... 36
         SECTION 5.4.   Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. ...................................................... 37
         SECTION 5.5.   Trustee May Enforce Claim Without Possession of Securities. ............................ 38
         SECTION 5.6.   Application of Money Collected. ........................................................ 38
         SECTION 5.7.   Limitation on Suits. ................................................................... 38
         SECTION 5.8.   Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium
                  and Interest; Direct Action by Holders of Preferred Securities. .............................. 39
         SECTION 5.9.   Restoration of Rights and Remedies. .................................................... 40
         SECTION 5.10.   Rights and Remedies Cumulative. ....................................................... 40
         SECTION 5.11.   Delay or Omission Not Waiver. ......................................................... 40
         SECTION 5.12.   Control by Holders. ................................................................... 40
         SECTION 5.13.   Waiver of Past Defaults. .............................................................. 41
         SECTION 5.14.   Undertaking for Costs. ................................................................ 41
         SECTION 5.15.   Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws. .............................................. 42

                                                    ARTICLE VI.................................................. 42
         SECTION 6.1.   Certain Duties and Responsibilities. ................................................... 42
         SECTION 6.2.   Notice of Defaults. .................................................................... 43
         SECTION 6.3.   Certain Rights of Trustee. ............................................................. 43
         SECTION 6.4.   Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities. ................................ 44
         SECTION 6.5.   May Hold Securities. ................................................................... 44
         SECTION 6.6.   Money Held in Trust. ................................................................... 45
         SECTION 6.7.   Compensation and Reimbursement. ........................................................ 45
         SECTION 6.8.   Disqualification; Conflicting Interests. ............................................... 45
         SECTION 6.9.   Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility. ............................................... 46
         SECTION 6.10.   Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. .................................... 46
         SECTION 6.11.   Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. ............................................... 48
         SECTION 6.12.   Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. .......................... 49
         SECTION 6.13.   Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company. .................................... 49
         SECTION 6.14.   Appointment of Authenticating Agent. .................................................. 49

                                                    ARTICLE VII................................................. 51
         SECTION 7.1.   Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders............................... 51
         SECTION 7.2.   Preservation of Information, Communications to Holders. ................................ 51
         SECTION 7.3.   Reports by Trustee. .................................................................... 51
         SECTION 7.4.   Reports by Company. .................................................................... 52

- ii -

- iii -

- iv -

JUNIOR SUBORDINATED INDENTURE, dated as of             , 199 , between
THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the
"Company") having its principal office at 270 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017,
and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, a national banking association duly organized and
existing under the laws of the United States, as Trustee (hereinafter called the
"Trustee").

RECITALS OF THE COMPANY

         The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this
Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured junior
subordinated debt securities in series (hereinafter called the "Securities") of
substantially the tenor hereinafter provided, including, without limitation,
Securities issued to evidence loans made to the Company of the proceeds from the
issuance from time to time by one or more business trusts (each a "Trust," and,
collectively, the "Trusts") of preferred trust interests in such Trusts (the
"Preferred Securities") and common interests in such Trusts (the "Common
Securities" and, collectively with the Preferred Securities, the "Trust
Securities"), and to provide the terms and conditions upon which the Securities
are to be authenticated, issued and delivered.

         All things necessary to make the Securities, when executed by the
Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder and duly issued by the
Company, the valid obligations of the Company, and to make this Indenture a
valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with their and its terms, have
been done.

         NOW THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH: For and in consideration of
the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is
mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all
Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:

ARTICLE I

         DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION

         SECTION 1.1.   Definitions.

         For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly
provided or unless the context otherwise requires:

         (1) The terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to
them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;

         (2) All other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust
Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings
assigned to them therein;

         (3) All accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings
assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and the term "generally accepted

2

accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted
hereunder shall mean such accounting principles which are generally accepted at
the date or time of such computation; provided, that when two or more principles
are so generally accepted, it shall mean that set of principles consistent with
those in use by the Company; and

         (4) The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of
similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular
Article, Section or other subdivision.

         "Act" when used with respect to any Holder has the meaning specified in
Section 1.4.

         "Additional Interest" means the interest, if any, that shall accrue on
any interest on the Securities of any series the payment of which has not been
made on the applicable Interest Payment Date and which shall accrue at the rate
per annum specified or determined as specified in such Security.

         "Additional Sums" has the meaning specified in Section 10.6.

         "Additional Taxes" means the sum of any additional taxes, duties and
other governmental charges to which a Trust has become subject from time to time
as a result of a Tax Event.

         "Administrative Trustee" means, in respect of any Trust, each Person
identified as an "Administrative Trustee" in the related Trust Agreement, solely
in such Person's capacity as Administrative Trustee of such Trust under such
Trust Agreement and not in such Person's individual capacity, or any successor
administrative trustee appointed as therein provided.

         "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or
indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common
control with such specified Person; provided, however, no Trust to which
Securities have been issued shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of the Company.
For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any
specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such
Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting
securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and
"controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.

         "Allocable Amounts," when used with respect to any Senior Debt, means
all amounts due or to become due on such Senior Debt less, if applicable, any
amount which would have been paid to, and retained by, the holders of such
Senior Debt (whether as a result of the receipt of payments by the holders of
such Senior Debt from the Company or any other obligor thereon or from any
holders of, or trustee in respect of, other indebtedness that is subordinate and
junior in right of payment to such Senior Debt pursuant to any provision of such
indebtedness for the payment over of amounts received on account of such
indebtedness to the holders of such Senior Debt or otherwise) but for the fact
that such Senior Debt is subordinate or junior in right of payment to (or
subject to a requirement that amounts received on such Senior Debt be paid over
to obligees on) trade accounts payable or accrued liabilities arising in the
ordinary course of business.

3

"Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee
pursuant to Section 6.14 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate
Securities of one or more series.

         "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company
or any committee of that board duly authorized to act hereunder.

         "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the
Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by
the Board of Directors, or such committee of the Board of Directors or officers
of the Company to which authority to act on behalf of the Board of Directors has
been delegated, and to be in full force and effect on the date of such
certification, and delivered to the Trustee.

         "Business Day" means any day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday, (ii)
a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or
required by law or executive order to remain closed or (iii) a day on which the
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or, with respect to the Securities of a
series initially issued to a Trust, the principal office of the Property Trustee
under the related Trust Agreement, is closed for business.

         "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time
to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or if at any time after the
execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the
duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body
performing such duties on such date.

         "Common Securities" has the meaning specified in the first recital of
this Indenture.

         "Common Stock" means the common stock[, par value $      per share,] [,
without par value,] of the Company.

         "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first
paragraph of this instrument until a successor corporation shall have become
such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter
"Company" shall mean such successor corporation.

         "Company Request" and "Company Order" mean, respectively, the written
request or order signed in the name of the Company by the Chairman of the Board
of Directors, the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President or a
Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or
an Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.

         "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at
which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered.

         "corporation" includes a corporation, association, company, joint-stock
company or business trust.

         "Debt" means, with respect to any Person, whether recourse is to all or
a portion of the assets of such Person and whether or not contingent, (i) every
obligation of such Person for

4

money borrowed; (ii) every obligation of such Person evidenced by bonds,
debentures, notes or other similar instruments, including obligations incurred
in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or businesses; (iii)
every reimbursement obligation of such Person with respect to letters of credit,
bankers' acceptances or similar facilities issued for the account of such
Person; (iv) every obligation of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred
purchase price of property or services (but excluding trade accounts payable or
accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business); (v) every
capital lease obligation of such Person; (vi) all indebtedness of the Company,
whether incurred on or prior to the date of this Indenture or thereafter
incurred, for claims in respect of derivative products, including interest rate,
foreign exchange rate and commodity forward contracts, options and swaps and
similar arrangements; and (vii) every obligation of the type referred to in
clauses (i) through (vi) of another Person and all dividends of another Person
the payment of which, in either case, such Person has guaranteed or is
responsible or liable for, directly or indirectly, as obligor or otherwise.

         "Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 3.7.

         "Depositary" means, with respect to the Securities of any series
issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global
Securities, the Person designated as Depositary by the Company pursuant to
Section 3.1 with respect to such series (or any successor thereto).

         "Discount Security" means any security which provides for an amount
less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration
of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.2.

         "Distributions," with respect to the Trust Securities issued by an
Trust, means amounts payable in respect of such Trust Securities as provided in
the related Trust Agreement and referred to therein as "Distributions."

         "Dollar" means the currency of the United States of America that, as at
the time of payment, is legal tender for the payment of public and private
debts.

         "Event of Default" unless otherwise specified in the supplemental
indenture creating a series of Securities has the meaning specified in Article
V.

         "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any
statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.

         "Extension Period" has the meaning specified in Section 3.11.

         "Global Security" means a Security in the form prescribed in Section
2.4 evidencing all or part of a series of Securities, issued to the Depository
or its nominee for such series, and registered in the name of such Depository or
its nominee.

5

"Guarantee" means the guarantee by the Company of distributions on the
Preferred Securities of a Trust to the extent provided in the Guarantee
Agreement.

         "Guarantee Agreement" means the Guarantee Agreement substantially in
the form attached hereto as Annex C, or substantially in such form as may be
specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 with respect to the Securities of any
series, in each case as amended from time to time.

         "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the
Securities Register.

         "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may
from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures
supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof
and shall include the terms of each particular series of Securities established
as contemplated by Section 3.1.

         "Interest Payment Date" means as to each series of Securities the
Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Securities.

         "Junior Subordinated Payment" has the meaning specified in Section
13.2.

         "Maturity" when used with respect to any Security means the date on
which the principal of such Security becomes due and payable as therein or
herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of
acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.

         "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.

         "Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in
Section 5.1(3).

         "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of
the Board of Directors , a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the
President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the
Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the
Trustee.

         "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be
counsel for the Company, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee.

         "Original Issue Date" means the date of issuance specified as such in
each Security.

         "Outstanding" means, when used in reference to any Securities, as of
the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and
delivered under this Indenture, except:

         (i) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the
Trustee for cancellation;

6

(ii) Securities for whose payment money in the necessary amount has
been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent in trust for the
Holders of such Securities; and

         (iii) Securities in substitution for or in lieu of which other
Securities have been authenticated and delivered or which have been paid
pursuant to Section 3.6, unless proof satisfactory to the Trustee is presented
that any such Securities are held by Holders in whose hands such Securities are
valid, binding and legal obligations of the Company;

provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite
principal amount of Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand,
authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned
by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the
Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be
Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected
in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
consent or waiver, only Securities which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall
be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may
be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the
Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that
the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any
Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor. Upon the written request of the
Trustee, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee promptly an Officers'
Certificate listing and identifying all Securities, if any, known by the Company
to be owned or held by or for the account of the Company, or any other obligor
on the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such obligor, and, subject
to the provisions of Section 6.1, the Trustee shall be entitled to accept such
Officers' Certificate as conclusive evidence of the facts therein set forth and
of the fact that all Securities not listed therein are Outstanding for the
purpose of any such determination.

         "Paying Agent" means the Trustee or any Person authorized by the
Company to pay the principal of or interest on any Securities on behalf of the
Company.

         "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture,
trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political
subdivision thereof.

         "Place of Payment" means, with respect to the Securities of any series,
the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on
the Securities of such series are payable pursuant to Sections 3.1 and 3.11.

         "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous
Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such
particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any security
authenticated and delivered under Section 3.6 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or
stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed
or stolen Security.

         "Preferred Securities" has the meaning specified in the first recital
of this Indenture.

         "Proceeding" has the meaning specified in Section 13.2.

7

"Property Trustee" means, in respect of any Trust, the commercial bank
or trust company identified as the "Property Trustee" in the related Trust
Agreement, solely in its capacity as Property Trustee of such Trust under such
Trust Agreement and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest
in such capacity, or any successor property trustee appointed as therein
provided.

         "Redemption Date," when used with respect to any Security to be
redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this
Indenture.

         "Redemption Price," when used with respect to any Security to be
redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this
Indenture.

         "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment
Date with respect to the Securities of a series means, unless otherwise provided
pursuant to Section 3.1 with respect to Securities of a series, (i) in the case
of Securities of a series represented by one or more Global Securities, the
Business Day next preceding such Interest Payment Date and (ii) in the case of
Securities of a series not represented by one or more Global Securities, the
date which is fifteen days next preceding such Interest Payment Date (whether or
not a Business Day).

         "Responsible Officer" when used with respect to the Trustee means any
officer of the Trustee assigned by the Trustee from time to time to administer
its corporate trust matters.

         "Rights Plan" means a plan of the Company providing for the issuance by
the Company to all holders of its Common Stock of rights entitling the holders
thereof to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock or any class or
series of preferred stock, which rights (i) are deemed to be transferred with
such shares of Common Stock, (ii) are not exercisable and (iii) are also issued
in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, in each case until the
occurrence of a specified event or events.

         "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services.

         "Securities" or "Security" means any debt securities or debt security,
as the case may be, authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.

         "Securities Register" and "Securities Registrar" have the respective
meanings specified in Section 3.5.

         "Senior Debt" means the principal of (and premium, if any) and
interest, if any (including interest accruing on or after the filing of any
petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization relating to the Company whether or
not such claim for post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding), on
Debt of the Company, whether incurred on or prior to the date of this Indenture
or thereafter incurred, unless, in the instrument creating or evidencing the
same or pursuant to which the same is outstanding, it is provided that such
obligations are not superior in right of payment to the Securities or to other
Debt which is pari passu with, or subordinated to, the Securities, provided,
however, that Senior Debt shall not be deemed to include (a) any Debt of the
Company which, when incurred and without respect to any election under Section
1111(b)

8

of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, was without recourse to the Company, (b)
any Debt of the Company to any of its Subsidiaries, (c) Debt to any employee of
the Company, and (d) any Securities.

         "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a
date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.7.

         "Stated Maturity" when used with respect to any Security or any
installment of principal thereof or interest thereon means the date specified
pursuant to the terms of such Security as the date on which the principal of
such Security or such installment of interest is due and payable, in the case of
such principal, as such date may be shortened or extended as provided pursuant
to the terms of such Security and this Indenture.

         "Subsidiary" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding
voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one
or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other
Subsidiaries. For purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means stock which
ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times
or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of
any contingency.

         "Tax Event" means the receipt by a Trust of an Opinion of Counsel (as
defined in the relevant Trust Agreement) experienced in such matters to the
effect that, as a result of any amendment to, or change (including any announced
prospective change) in, the laws (or any regulations thereunder) of the United
States or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein, or
as a result of any official administrative pronouncement or judicial decision
interpreting or applying such laws or regulations, which amendment or change is
effective or which pronouncement or decision is announced on or after the date
of issuance of the Preferred Securities of such Trust, there is more than an
insubstantial risk that (i) such Trust is, or will be within 90 days of the date
of such Opinion of Counsel, subject to United States Federal income tax with
respect to income received or accrued on the corresponding series of Securities
issued by the Company to such Trust, (ii) interest payable by the Company on
such corresponding series of Securities is not, or within 90 days of the date of
such Opinion of Counsel, will not be, deductible by the Company, in whole or in
part, for United States Federal income tax purposes or (iii) such Trust is, or
will be within 90 days of the date of such Opinion of Counsel, subject to more
than a de minimis amount of other taxes, duties or other governmental charges.

         "Trust" has the meaning specified in the first recital of this
Indenture.

         "Trust Agreement" means the Trust Agreement substantially in the form
attached hereto as Annex A, as amended by the form of Amended and Restated Trust
Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Annex B, or substantially
in such form as may be specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 with respect to
the Securities of any series, in each case as amended from time to time.

9

"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first
paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such
pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter
"Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder and,
if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with
respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to
Securities of that series.

         "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939
(15 U.S.C. " 77aaa-77bbb), as amended and as in effect on the date as of this
Indenture, except as provided in Section 9.5.

         "Trust Securities" has the meaning specified in the first recital of
this Indenture.

         "Vice President" when used with respect to the Company, means any duly
appointed vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or
words added before or after the title "vice president."

         SECTION 1.2.   Compliance Certificate and Opinions.

         Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take
any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to
the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent
(including covenants, compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent),
if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been
complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such
counsel all such conditions precedent (including covenants compliance with which
constitute a condition precedent), if any, have been complied with, except that
in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of
such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture
relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or
opinion need be furnished.

         Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a
condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than the
certificates provided pursuant to Section 10.5) shall include:

         (1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or
opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating
thereto;

         (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or
investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such
certificate or opinion are based;

         (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has
made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express
an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been
complied with; and

         (4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual,
such condition or covenant has been complied with.

10

SECTION 1.3.   Forms of Documents Delivered to Trustee.

         In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or
covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all
such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such
Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one
such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one
or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify
or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.

         Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based,
insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or
representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of
reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations
with respect to matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are
erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as
it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or
representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the
information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the
Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should
know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such
matters are erroneous.

         Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more
applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions, or other
instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and
form one instrument.

         SECTION 1.4.   Acts of Holders.

         (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent,
waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given to or taken by
Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of
substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly
appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such
action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments is or are
delivered to the Trustee, and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the
Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and
evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders
signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such
instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any
purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.1) conclusive in favor of
the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.

         (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such
instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such
execution or by the certificate of any notary public or other officer authorized
by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing
such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such
execution is by a Person acting in other than his individual capacity, such
certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his
authority.

11

(c) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such
instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may
also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient and in
accordance with such reasonable rules as the Trustee may determine.

         (d) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Securities
Register.

         (e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent,
waiver or other action by the Holder of any Security shall bind every future
Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the
transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of
anything done or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance
thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.

         (f) The Company may set any day as a record date for the purpose of
determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to
give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be
given, made or taken by Holders of Securities of such series, provided that the
Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply with respect to, the giving or making of any notice,
declaration, request or direction referred to in the next paragraph. If any
record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding
Securities of the relevant series on such record date, and no other Holders,
shall be entitled to take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders
remain Holders after such record date, provided that no such action shall be
effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date
by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such
series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a
record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the
record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person
be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed
to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal
amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action
is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the
Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the
proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the
Trustee in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in
the manner set forth in Section 1.6.

         The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of
determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to join
in the giving or making of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of
acceleration referred to in Section 5.2, (iii) any request to institute
proceedings referred to in Section 5.7(2) or (iv) any direction referred to in
Section 5.12, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. If any
record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding
Securities of such series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be
entitled to join in such notice, declaration, request or direction, whether or
not such Holders remain Holders after such record date, provided that no such
action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable
Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding
Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall
be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any

12

action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this
paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with
no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this
paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders
of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant
series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set
pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause
notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable
Expiration Date to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of
Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 1.6.

         With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party
hereto which sets such record dates may designate any day as the "Expiration
Date" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or
later day, provided that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the
proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other party hereto in writing, and
to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in
Section 10.6, on or prior to the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date
is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section,
the party hereto which set such record date shall be deemed to have initially
designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with
respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided
in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be
later than the 180th day after the applicable record date.

         (g) Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take
any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with
regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or
more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment
with regard to all or any part of such principal amount.

         SECTION 1.5.   Notices, Etc. to Trustee and Company.

         Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver
or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to
be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,

         (1) the Trustee by any Holder, any holder of Preferred Securities or
the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given,
furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust
office, or

         (2) the Company by the Trustee, any Holder or any holder of Preferred
Securities shall be sufficient for every purpose (except as otherwise provided
in Section 5.1) hereunder if in writing and mailed, first class, postage
prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office
specified in the first paragraph of this instrument or at any other address
previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.

13

SECTION 1.6.   Notice to Holders; Waiver.

         Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such
notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided)
if in writing and mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected
by such event, at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Securities
Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest
date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to
Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any
defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the
sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture
provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the
Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and
such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders
shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition
precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.

         SECTION 1.7.   Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.

         If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with
the duties imposed by any of Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust
Indenture Act through operation of Section 318(c) thereof, such imposed duties
shall control.

         SECTION 1.8.   Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.

         The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are
for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.

         SECTION 1.9.   Successors and Assigns.

         All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall
bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.

         SECTION 1.10.  Separability Clause.

         In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of
the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.

         SECTION 1.11   Benefits of Indenture.

         Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied,
shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors and
assigns, the holders of Senior Debt, the Holders of the Securities and, to the
extent expressly provided in Sections 5.2, 5.8, 5.9, 5.11, 5.13, 9.1 and 9.2,
the holders of Preferred Securities, any benefit or any legal or equitable
right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.

14

SECTION 1.12.   Governing Law.

         This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York.

         SECTION 1.13.   Non-Business Days.

         In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated
Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then (notwithstanding any
other provision of this Indenture or the Securities) payment of interest or
principal (and premium, if any) need not be made on such date, but may be made
on the next succeeding Business Day (and no interest shall accrue for the period
from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity,
as the case may be, until such next succeeding Business Day except that, if such
Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment shall be made
on the immediately preceding Business Day (in each case with the same force and
effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date or at the
Stated Maturity).

ARTICLE II

                                 SECURITY FORMS

SECTION 2.1.   Forms Generally.

         The Securities of each series and the Trustee's certificate of
authentication shall be in substantially the forms set forth in this Article, or
in such other form or forms as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board
Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with
such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as
are required or permitted by this Indenture and may have such letters, numbers
or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon
as may be required to comply with applicable tax laws or the rules of any
securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the
officers executing such securities, as evidenced by their execution of the
Securities. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action
taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such
action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the
Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company
Order contemplated by Section 3.3 with respect to the authentication and
delivery of such Securities.

         The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be substantially in
the form set forth in this Article.

         The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or
produced by any combination of these methods, if required by any securities
exchange on which the Securities may be listed, on a steel engraved border or
steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner permitted by the
rules of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be

15

listed, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as
evidenced by their execution of such securities.

         SECTION 2.2.   Form of Face of Security.

                         THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION
                % JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEFERRABLE INTEREST DEBENTURES

No.           $

         THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing
under the laws of the state of Delaware (hereinafter called the "Company", which
term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred
to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the
principal sum of Dollars on               , 2026; provided that the Company may
(i) shorten the Stated Maturity of the principal of this Security to a date not
earlier than                  , 2001 and (ii) extend the Stated Maturity of the
principal of this Security at any time on one or more occasions, subject to
certain conditions specified in Section 3.14 of the Indenture, but in no event
to a date later than                , 2045. The Company further promises to pay
interest on said principal sum from , or from the most recent interest payment
date (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") on which interest has been
paid or duly provided for, quarterly (subject to deferral as set forth herein)
in arrears on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year,
commencing March 31, 1997, at the rate of       % per annum, until the principal
hereof shall have become due and payable, plus Additional Interest, if any,
until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for or made available for
payment and on any overdue principal and (without duplication and to the extent
that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) on any
overdue installment of interest at the rate of       % per annum, compounded
quarterly. The amount of interest payable for any period shall be computed on
the basis of twelve 30-day months and a 360-day year. The amount of interest
payable for any partial period shall be computed on the basis of the number of
days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any
date on which interest is payable on this Security is not a Business Day, then a
payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding
day which is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in
respect of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next
succeeding calendar year, such payment shall be made on the immediately
preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as if made
on the date the payment was originally payable. A "Business Day" shall mean any
day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday, (ii) a day on which banking
institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or
exective order to remain closed or (iii) a day on which the Corporate Trust
Office of the Trustee or the Property Trustee under the Trust Agreement
hereinafter referred to for Chase Capital I, is closed for business. The
interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on
any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the
Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities is
registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest
installment, which shall be, unless otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.1
of the Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of                , 199  (herein
called the "Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee
(herein called the

16

"Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), with
respect to Securities of a series, (i) in the case of Securities of a series
represented by one or more Global Securities, the Business Day next preceding
such Interest Payment Date and (ii) in the case of Securities of a series not
represented by one or more Global Securities, the date which is fifteen days
next preceding such Interest Payment Date (whether or not a Business Day). Any
such interest installment not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall
forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may
either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more
Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special
Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the
Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series
not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time
in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any
securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and
upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided
in said Indenture.

         So long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the
Company shall have the right at any time during the term of this Security to
defer payment of interest on this Security, at any time or from time to time,
for up to 20 consecutive quarterly interest payment periods with respect to each
deferral period (each an "Extension Period"), during which Extension Periods the
Company shall have the right to make partial payments of interest on any
Interest Payment Date, and at the end of which the Company shall pay all
interest then accrued and unpaid (together with Additional Interest thereon to
the extent permitted by applicable law); provided, however, that no Extension
Period shall extend beyond the Stated Maturity of the principal of this
Security; provided, further, that during any such Extension Period, the Company
shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary of the Company to, (i) declare or
pay any dividends or distributions or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a
liquidation payment with respect to, any of the Company's capital stock or (ii)
make any payment of principal of or interest or premium, if any, on or repay,
repurchase or redeem any debt security of the Company that ranks pari passu with
or junior in interest to this Security or make any guarantee payments with
respect to any guarantee by the Company of the debt securities of any
Subsidiaries of the Company if such guarantee ranks pari passu with or junior in
interest to this Security (other than (a) dividends or distributions in Common
Stock, (b) any declaration of a dividend in connection with the implementation
of a Rights Plan, the issuance of any Common Stock or any class or series of
preferred stock of the Company under any Rights Plan or the repurchase of any
rights distributed pursuant to a Rights Plan, (c) payments under any Guarantee,
and (d) purchases of Common Stock related to the issuance of Common Stock under
any of the Company's benefit plans for its directors, officers or employees.
Prior to the termination of any such Extension Period, the Company may further
extend the interest payment period, provided that no Extension Period shall
exceed beyond the Stated Maturity of the principal of this Security. Upon the
termination of any such Extension Period and upon the payment of all accrued and
unpaid interest and any Additional Interest then due, the Company may elect to
begin a new Extension Period, subject to the above requirements. No interest
shall be due and payable during an Extension Period except at the end thereof.
The Company shall give the Holder of this Security and the Trustee notice of its
election to begin any Extension Period at least one Business Day prior to the
next succeeding Interest Payment Date on which interest on this Security would
be payable but for such deferral or, with respect to the Securities issued to a
Trust, so long as such

17

Securities are held by such Trust, prior to the earlier of (i) the next
succeeding date on which Distributions on the Preferred Securities would be
payable but for such deferral or (ii) the date the Administrative Trustees are
required to give notice to any securities exchange or other applicable
self-regulatory organization or to holders of such Preferred Securities of the
record date or the date such Distributions are payable, but in any event not
less than one Business Day prior to such record date.

         Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this
Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that
purpose in the United States, in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts [if applicable, insert C; provided, however, that at the option of
the Company payment of interest may be made (i) by check mailed to the address
of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Securities
Register or (ii) by wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place
and to such account as may be designated by the Person entitled thereto as
specified in the Securities Register].

         The indebtedness evidenced by this Security is, to the extent provided
in the Indenture, subordinate and subject in right of payments to the prior
payment in full of all Senior Debt, and this Security is issued subject to the
provisions of the Indenture with respect thereto. Each Holder of this Security,
by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions, (b)
authorizes and directs the Trustee on his behalf to take such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination so provided and (c)
appoints the Trustee his attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes. Each
Holder hereof, by his acceptance hereof, waives all notice of the acceptance of
the subordination provisions contained herein and in the Indenture by each
holder of Senior Debt, whether now outstanding or hereafter incurred, and waives
reliance by each such holder upon said provisions.

         Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set
forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes
have the same effect as if set forth at this place.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security
shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or
obligatory for any purpose.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION

By:-----------------------------
                                                   [President or Vice President]

Attest:

18

- -------------------------------------------
         [Secretary or Assistant Secretary]

         SECTION 2.3.   Form of Reverse of Security.

         This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the
Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more
series under the Indenture, to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental
thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights,
limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the
Company and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the
Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one
of the series designated on the face hereof [, limited in aggregate principal
amount to $             ].

         All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture or in
the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of                , 1996, as
amended (the "Trust Agreement"), for Chase Capital I among The Chase Manhattan
Corporation, as Depositor, and the Trustees named therein, shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the Indenture or the Trust Agreement, as the case
may be.

         The Company may at any time, at its option, on or after               ,
       , and subject to the terms and conditions of Article XI of the Indenture,
redeem this Security in whole at any time or in part from time to time, without
premium or penalty, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount
thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional Interest, if any
to the Redemption Date.

         Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a Tax Event in
respect of a Trust, the Company may, at its option, at any time within 90 days
of the occurrence of such Tax Event redeem this Security, in whole but not in
part, subject to the provisions of Section 11.7 and the other provisions of
Article XI of the Indenture, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the
principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional
Interest, if any, to the Redemption Date.

         In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new
Security or Securities of this series for the unredeemed portion hereof will be
issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.

         The Indenture contains provisions for satisfaction and discharge of the
entire indebtedness of this Security upon compliance by the Company with certain
conditions set forth in the Indenture.

         The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
Company and the Trustee at any time to enter into a supplemental indenture or
indentures for the purpose of modifying in any manner the rights and obligations
of the Company and of the Holders of the Securities, with the consent of the
Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding
Securities of each series to be affected by such supplemental indenture. The
Indenture also contains provisions permitting Holders of specified percentages
in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on
behalf of the Holders of all

19

Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain
provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and
their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security
shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of
this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer
hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such
consent or waiver is made upon this Security.

         As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, if an
Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series at the time
Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or
the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding
Securities of this series may declare the principal amount of all the Securities
of this series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the
Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), provided that, in the case of
the Securities of this series issued to a Trust, if upon an Event of Default,
the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of this series fails to declare the principal of all the
Securities of this series to be immediately due and payable, the holders of at
least 25% in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities then
outstanding shall have such right by a notice in writing to the Company and the
Trustee; and upon any such declaration the principal amount of and the accrued
interest (including any Additional Interest) on all the Securities of this
series shall become immediately due and payable, provided that the payment of
principal and interest (including any Additional Interest) on such Securities
shall remain subordinated to the extent provided in Article XIII of the
Indenture.

         No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security
or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which
is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and
interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or
currency, herein prescribed.

         As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Securities
Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the
office or agency of the Company maintained under Section 10.2 of the Indenture
duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form
satisfactory to the Company and the Securities Registrar duly executed by, the
Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or
more new Securities of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same
aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or
transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of
transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to
cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.

         Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer,
the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat
the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all
purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the
Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.

20

The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form
without coupons in denominations of $25.00 and any integral multiple thereof. As
provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth,
Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount
of Securities of such series of a different authorized denomination, as
requested by the Holder surrendering the same.

         The Company and, by its acceptance of this Security or a beneficial
interest therein, the Holder of, and any Person that acquires a beneficial
interest in, this Security agree that for United States Federal, state and local
tax purposes it is intended that this Security constitute indebtedness.

         THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF
LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.

         SECTION 2.4.   Additional Provisions Required in Global Security.

         Any Global Security issued hereunder shall, in addition to the
provisions contained in Sections 2.2 and 2.3, bear a legend in substantially the
following form:

         "This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture
hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a Depositary or a
nominee of a Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered
in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the
limited circumstances described in the Indenture and may not be transferred
except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a
nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the
Depositary."

         SECTION 2.5.   Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.

         This is one of the Securities referred to in the within mentioned
Indenture.

Dated:
                                     -------------------------------------------
                                     as Trustee

                                     By:
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Authorized officer

ARTICLE III

                                 THE SECURITIES

         SECTION 3.1.   Title and Terms.

         The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated
and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.

21

The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be
established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth in an Officers'
Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior
to the issuance of Securities of a series:

         (a) the title of the securities of such series, which shall distinguish
the Securities of the series from all other Securities;

         (b) the limit, if any, upon the aggregate principal amount of the
Securities of such series which may be authenticated and delivered under this
Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration
of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the
series pursuant to Section 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 9.6 or 11.6 and except for any
Securities which, pursuant to Section 3.3, are deemed never to have been
authenticated and delivered hereunder); provided, however, that the authorized
aggregate principal amount of such series may be increased above such amount by
a Board Resolution to such effect;

         (c) the Stated Maturity or Maturities on which the principal of the
Securities of such series is payable or the method of determination thereof;

         (d) the rate or rates, if any, at which the Securities of such series
shall bear interest, if any, the rate or rates and extent to which Additional
Interest, if any, shall be payable in respect of any Securities of such series,
the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable, the right,
pursuant to Section 3.11 or as otherwise set forth therein, of the Company to
defer or extend an Interest Payment Date, and the Regular Record Date for the
interest payable on any Interest Payment Date or the method by which any of the
foregoing shall be determined;

         (e) the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any)
and interest on the Securities of such series shall be payable, the place or
places where the Securities of such series may be presented for registration of
transfer or exchange, and the place or places where notices and demands to or
upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such series may be made;

         (f) the period or periods within or the date or dates on which, if any,
the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which the
Securities of such series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of
the Company;

         (g) the obligation or the right, if any, of the Company to redeem,
repay or purchase the Securities of such series pursuant to any sinking fund,
amortization or analogous provisions, or at the option of a Holder thereof, and
the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the currency
or currencies (including currency unit or units) in which and the other terms
and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or
purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;

         (h) the denominations in which any Securities of such series shall be
issuable, if other than denominations of $25 and any integral multiple thereof;

22

(i) if other than Dollars, the currency or currencies (including
currency unit or units) in which the principal of (and premium, if any) and
interest, if any, on the Securities of the series shall be payable, or in which
the Securities of the series shall be denominated;

         (j) the additions, modifications or deletions, if any, in the Events
of Default or covenants of the Company set forth herein with respect to the
Securities of such series;

         (k) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the
principal amount of Securities of such series that shall be payable upon
declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof;

         (l) the additions or changes, if any, to this Indenture with respect to
the Securities of such series as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the
issuance of the Securities of such series in bearer form, registrable or not
registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons;

         (m) any index or indices used to determine the amount of payments of
principal of and premium, if any, on the Securities of such series or the manner
in which such amounts will be determined;

         (n) whether the Securities of the series, or any portion thereof, shall
initially be issuable in the form of a temporary Global Security representing
all or such portion of the Securities of such series and provisions for the
exchange of such temporary Global Security for definitive Securities of such
series;

         (o) if applicable, that any Securities of the series shall be issuable
in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such
case, the respective Depositaries for such Global Securities, the form of any
legend or legends which shall be borne by any such Global Security in addition
to or in lieu of that set forth in Section 2.4 and any circumstances in addition
to or in lieu of those set forth in Section 3.5 in which any such Global
Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and any
transfer of such Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the
name or names of Persons other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a
nominee thereof;

         (p) the appointment of any Paying Agent or Agents for the Securities of
such series;

         (q) the terms of any right to convert or exchange Securities of such
series into any other securities or property of the Company, and the additions
or changes, if any, to this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such
series to permit or facilitate such conversion or exchange;

         (r) the form or forms of the Trust Agreement, Amended and Restated
Trust Agreement and Guarantee Agreement, if different from the forms attached
hereto as Annexes A, B and C, respectively;

23

(s) the relative degree, if any, to which the Securities of the series
shall be senior to or be subordinated to other series of Securities in right of
payment, whether such other series of Securities are Outstanding or not; and

         (t) any other terms of the Securities of such series (which terms shall
not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture).

         All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical
except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided herein or in
or pursuant to such Board Resolution and set forth in such Officers' Certificate
or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.

         If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken
pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action
shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and
delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers'
Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.

                  The Securities shall be subordinated in right of payment to
Senior Debt as provided in Article XIII.

         SECTION 3.2.   Denominations.

         The Securities of each series shall be in registered form without
coupons and shall be issuable in denominations of $25 and any integral multiple
thereof, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1.

         SECTION 3.3.   Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.

         The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its
President or one of its Vice Presidents under its corporate seal reproduced or
impressed thereon and attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant
Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be
manual or facsimile.

         Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals
who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company,
notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such
offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not
hold such offices at the date of such Securities. At any time and from time to
time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver
Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for
authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and
delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company
Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If the form or terms of
the Securities of the series have been established by or pursuant to one or more
Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 3.1, in authenticating such
Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture
in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and
(subject to Section 6.1) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of
Counsel stating,

24

(1) if the form of such Securities has been established by or
         pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 2.1, that such
         form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this
         Indenture;

                  (2) if the terms of such Securities have been established by
         or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 3.1, that such
         terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this
         Indenture; and

                  (3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by
         the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any
         conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid
         and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable in
         accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency,
         fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of
         general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to
         general equity principles.

If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be
required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities
pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or
immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner
which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.

                  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.1 and of the
preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally
issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers'
Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 3.1 or the Company Order and
Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or
prior to the authentication of each Security of such series if such documents
are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the
first Security of such series to be issued.

         Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.

         No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be
valid or obligatory for any purpose, unless there appears on such Security a
certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein
executed by the Trustee by the manual signature of one of its authorized
officers, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence,
and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and
delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have
been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the
Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for
cancellation as provided in Section 3.9, for all purposes of this Indenture such
Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered
hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.

25

SECTION 3.4.   Temporary Securities.

         Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the
Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and
deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten,
mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any denomination, substantially of the
tenor of the definitive Securities of such series in lieu of which they are
issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other
variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced
by their execution of such Securities.

         If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will
cause definitive Securities of such series to be prepared without unreasonable
delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities
shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon surrender of the temporary
Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for that purpose
without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more
temporary Securities, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall
authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more definitive Securities
of the same series, of any authorized denominations having the same Original
Issue Date and Stated Maturity and having the same terms as such temporary
Securities. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall in
all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive
Securities of such series.

         SECTION 3.5.   Registration, Transfer and Exchange.

         The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the
Trustee a register in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may
prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of
transfers of Securities. Such register is herein sometimes referred to as the
"Securities Register." The Trustee is hereby appointed "Securities Registrar"
for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein
provided.

         Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security at the
office or agency of the Company designated for that purpose the Company shall
execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the
designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same
series of any authorized denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount, of
the same Original Issue Date and Stated Maturity and having the same terms.

         At the option of the Holder, Securities may be exchanged for other
Securities of the same series of any authorized denominations, of a like
aggregate principal amount, of the same Original Issue Date and Stated Maturity
and having the same terms, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at
such office or agency. Whenever any securities are so surrendered for exchange,
the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the
Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.

         All Securities issued upon any transfer or exchange of Securities shall
be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled
to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon
such transfer or exchange.

26

Every Security presented or surrendered for transfer or exchange shall
(if so required by the Company or the Securities Registrar) be duly endorsed, or
be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the
Company and the Securities Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his
attorney duly authorized in writing.

         No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any transfer or
exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
with any transfer or exchange of Securities.

                  The provisions of Clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) below shall
apply only to Global Securities:

                  (1) Each Global Security authenticated under this Indenture
         shall be registered in the name of the Depositary designated for such
         Global Security or a nominee thereof and delivered to such Depositary
         or a nominee thereof or custodian therefor, and each such Global
         Security shall constitute a single Security for all purposes of this
         Indenture.

                  (2) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, no
         Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities
         registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part
         may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary
         for such Global Security or a nominee thereof unless (A) such
         Depositary (i) has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable
         to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or (ii) has ceased
         to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act at a time
         when the Depositary is required to be so registered to act as
         depositary, in each case unless the Company has approved a successor
         Depositary within 90 days, (B) there shall have occurred and be
         continuing an Event of Default with respect to such Global Security,
         (C) the Company in its sole discretion determines that such Global
         Security will be so exchangeable or transferable or (D) there shall
         exist such circumstances, if any, in addition to or in lieu of the
         foregoing as have been specified for this purpose as contemplated by
         Section 3.1.

                  (3) Subject to Clause (2) above, any exchange of a Global
         Security for other Securities may be made in whole or in part, and all
         Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion
         thereof shall be registered in such names as the Depositary for such
         Global Security shall direct.

                  (4) Every Security authenticated and delivered upon
         registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global
         Security or any portion thereof, whether pursuant to this Section,
         Section 3.4, 3.6, 9.6 or 11.6 or otherwise, shall be authenticated and
         delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security, unless such
         Security is registered in the name of a Person other than the
         Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof.

         Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be required, pursuant to the
provisions of this Section, (a) to issue, transfer or exchange any Security of
any series during a period beginning

27

at the opening of business 15 days before the day of selection for redemption of
Securities pursuant to Article XI and ending at the close of business on the day
of mailing of notice of redemption or (b) to transfer or exchange any Security
so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except, in the case of any
Security to be redeemed in part, any portion thereof not to be redeemed.

         SECTION 3.6.   Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.

         If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee together with
such security or indemnity as may be required by the Company or the Trustee to
save each of them harmless, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall
authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same issue
and series of like tenor and principal amount, having the same Original Issue
Date and Stated Maturity, and bearing a number not contemporaneously
outstanding.

         If there shall be delivered to the Company and to the Trustee (i)
evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any
Security, and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save
each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the
Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the
Company shall execute and upon its request the Trustee shall authenticate and
deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security
of the same issue and series of like tenor and principal amount, having the same
Original Issue Date and Stated Maturity as such destroyed, lost or stolen
Security, and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.

         In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has
become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may,
instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.

         Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company
may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other
governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other
expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.

         Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any
destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional
contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or
stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be
entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with
any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.

         The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the
extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or
payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.

28

SECTION 3.7.   Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.

         Interest on any Security of any series which is payable, and is
punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date, shall be
paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor
Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date
for such interest in respect of Securities of such series, except that, unless
otherwise provided in the Securities of such series, interest payable on the
Stated Maturity of the principal of a Security shall be paid to the Person to
whom principal is paid. The initial payment of interest on any Security of any
series which is issued between a Regular Record Date and the related Interest
Payment Date shall be payable as provided in such Security or in the Board
Resolution pursuant to Section 3.1 with respect to the related series of
Securities.

         Any interest on any Security which is payable, but is not timely paid
or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for Securities of such series
(herein called "Defaulted Interest"), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the
registered Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been
such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its
election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:

         (1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to
the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series in respect of which
interest is in default (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are
registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of
such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The
Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest
proposed to be paid on each Security and the date of the proposed payment, and
at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money
equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted
Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit
prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held
in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as
in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date
for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days
and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less
than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed
payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record
Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of
the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date
therefor to be mailed, first class, postage prepaid, to each Holder of a
Security of such series at the address of such Holder as it appears in the
Securities Register not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. The
Trustee may, in its discretion, in the name and at the expense of the Company,
cause a similar notice to be published at least once in a newspaper, customarily
published in the English language on each Business Day and of general
circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, but such
publication shall not be a condition precedent to the establishment of such
Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest
and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such
Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of
such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered on such
Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following
Clause (2).

29

(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other
lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange
on which the Securities of the series in respect of which interest is in default
may be listed and, upon such notice as may be required by such exchange (or by
the Trustee if the Securities are not listed), if, after notice given by the
Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such
payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.

         Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security
delivered under this Indenture upon transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of
any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to
accrue, which were carried by such other Security.

         SECTION 3.8.   Persons Deemed Owners.

         The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee
may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of
such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and (subject
to Section 3.7) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes
whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company,
the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by
notice to the contrary.

         SECTION 3.9.   Cancellation.

         All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, transfer or
exchange shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be
delivered to the Trustee, and any such Securities and Securities surrendered
directly to the Trustee for any such purpose shall be promptly canceled by it.
The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any
Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company
may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered
shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated
in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this
Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled
Securities shall be destroyed by the Trustee and the Trustee shall deliver to
the Company a certificate of such destruction.

         SECTION 3.10.  Computation of Interest.

         Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 for
Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series for any
period shall be computed on the basis of a 360- day year of twelve 30-day months
and interest on the Securities of each series for any partial period shall be
computed on the basis of the number of days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve
30-day months.

         SECTION 3.11.  Deferrals of Interest Payment Dates.

         If specified as contemplated by Section 2.1 or Section 3.1 with respect
to the Securities of a particular series, so long as no Event of Default has
occurred and is continuing, the Company shall have the right, at any time during
the term of such series, from time to time to

30

defer the payment of interest on such Securities for such period or periods as
may be specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 (each, an "Extension Period")
during which Extension Periods the Company shall have the right to make partial
payments of interest on any Interest Payment Date. No Extension Period shall end
on a date other than an Interest Payment Date. At the end of any such Extension
Period the Company shall pay all interest then accrued and unpaid on the
Securities (together with Additional Interest thereon, if any, at the rate
specified for the Securities of such series to the extent permitted by
applicable law); provided, however, that no Extension Period shall extend beyond
the Stated Maturity of the principal of the Securities of such series; provided,
further, that during any such Extension Period, the Company shall not, and shall
not permit any Subsidiary to, (i) declare or pay any dividends or distributions
on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to,
any of the Company's capital stock, or (ii) make any payment of principal of or
interest or premium, if any, on or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt security
of the Company that ranks pari passu with or junior in interest to the
Securities of such series or make any guarantee payments with respect to any
guarantee by the Company of the debt securities of any Subsidiary of the Company
that by their terms rank pari passu with or junior in interest to the securities
of such series (other than (a) dividends or distributions in Common Stock, (b)
any declaration of a dividend in connection with the implementation of a Rights
Plan, the issuance of any Common Stock of any class or series of preferred stock
of the Company under any Rights Plan or the repurchase of any rights distributed
pursuant to a Rights Plan, (c) payments under any Guarantee, and (d) purchases
of Common Stock related to the issuance of Common Stock under any of the
Company's benefit plans for its directors, officers or employees). Prior to the
termination of any such Extension Period, the Company may further extend the
interest payment period, provided that no Extension Period shall exceed the
period or periods specified in such Securities or extend beyond the Stated
Maturity of the principal of such Securities. Upon termination of any Extension
Period and upon the payment of all accrued and unpaid interest and any
Additional Interest then due on any Interest Payment Date, the Company may elect
to begin a new Extension Period, subject to the above requirements. No interest
shall be due and payable during an Extension Period, except at the end thereof.
The Company shall give the Holders of the Securities of such series and the
Trustee notice of its election to begin any such Extension Period at least one
Business Day prior to the next succeeding Interest Payment Date on which
interest on Securities of such series would be payable but for such deferral or,
with respect to the Securities of a series issued to a Trust, so long as such
Securities are held by such Trust, prior to the earlier of (i) the next
succeeding date on which Distributions on the Preferred Securities of such Trust
would be payable but for such deferral or (ii) the date the Administrative
Trustees of such Trust are required to give notice to any securities exchange or
other applicable self-regulatory organization or to holders of such Preferred
Securities of the record date or the date such Distributions are payable, but in
any event not less than one Business Day prior to such record date.

         The Trustee shall promptly give notice of the Company's election to
begin any such Extension Period to the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of
such series.

31

SECTION 3.12.   Right of Set-Off.

         With respect to the Securities of a series issued to a Trust,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indenture, the Company shall
have the right to set-off any payment it is otherwise required to make
thereunder in respect of any such Security to the extent the Company has
theretofore made, or is concurrently on the date of such payment making, a
payment under the Guarantee relating to such Security or under Section 5.8 of
the Indenture.

         SECTION 3.13.   Agreed Tax Treatment.

         Each Security issued hereunder shall provide that the Company and, by
its acceptance of a Security or a beneficial interest therein, the Holder of,
and any Person that acquires a beneficial interest in, such Security agree that
for United States Federal, state and local tax purposes it is intended that such
Security constitute indebtedness.

         SECTION 3.14.   Shortening or Extension of Stated Maturity.

         If specified as contemplated by Section 2.1 or Section 3.1 with respect
to the Securities of a particular series, the Company shall have the right to
(i) shorten the Stated Maturity of the principal of the Securities of such
series at any time to any date not earlier than the first date on which the
Company has the right to redeem the Securities of such series, and (ii) extend
the Stated Maturity of the principal of the Securities of such series at any
time at its election for one or more periods, but in no event to a date later
than the 49th anniversary of the first Interest Payment Date following the
Original Issue Date of the Securities of such series; provided that, if the
Company elects to exercise its right to extend the Stated Maturity of the
principal of the Securities of such series pursuant to clause (ii), above, at
the time such election is made and at the time of extension (A) the Company is
not in bankruptcy, otherwise insolvent or in liquidation, (B) the Company is not
in default in the payment of any interest or principal on such Securities, (C)
in the case of any series of Securities issued to a Trust, such Trust is not in
arrears on payments of Distributions on the Preferred Securities issued by such
Trust and no deferred Distributions are accumulated and (D) such Securities are
rated not less than BBB- by S&P or Baa3 by Moody's or the equivalent by any
other nationally recognized statistical rating organization. In the event the
Company elects to shorten or extend the Stated Maturity of the Series A
Subordinated Debentures, it shall give notice to the Trustee, and the Trustee
shall give notice of such shortening or extension to the Holders, no less than
30 and no more than 60 days prior to the effectiveness thereof.

         SECTION 3.15.   CUSIP Numbers.

         The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then
generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices
of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may
state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers
either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a
redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification
numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected
by any defect in or omission of such numbers.

32

ARTICLE IV

                           SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE

         SECTION 4.1.   Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.

         This Indenture shall, upon Company Request, cease to be of further
effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or
exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for and as otherwise provided
in this Section 4.1) and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the
Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and
discharge of this Indenture, when

         (1) either

         (A) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than
(i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been
replaced or paid as provided in Section 3.6 and (ii) Securities for whose
payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in
trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from
such trust, as provided in Section 10.3) have been delivered to the Trustee for
cancellation; or

         (B) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for
cancellation

                  (i)      have become due and payable, or

                  (ii)     will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity
                           within one year of the date of deposit, or

                  (iii)    are to be called for redemption within one year under
                           arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the
                           giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the
                           name, and at the expense, of the Company,

                  and the Company, in the case of Clause (B) (i), (ii) or (iii)
                  above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the
                  Trustee as trust funds in trust for such purpose an amount in
                  the currency or currencies in which the Securities of such
                  series are payable sufficient to pay and discharge the entire
                  indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to
                  the Trustee for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if
                  any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) to the
                  date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have
                  become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or
                  Redemption Date, as the case may be;

         (2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable
hereunder by the Company; and

33

(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate
and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent herein
provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have
been complied with.

Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the
obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 6.7, the obligations of
the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 6.14 and, if money shall
have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of
this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 4.2 and the last
paragraph of Section 10.3 shall survive.

         SECTION 4.2.   Application of Trust Money.

         Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 10.3, all
money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.1 shall be held in trust
and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities
and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent
(including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may
determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if
any) and interest for the payment of which such money or obligations have been
deposited with or received by the Trustee.

ARTICLE V

                                    REMEDIES

         SECTION 5.1.   Events of Default.

         "Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to the Securities
of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for
such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be
effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any
court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental
body):

         (1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that
series, including any Additional Interest in respect thereof, when it becomes
due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days
(subject to the deferral of any due date in the case of an Extension Period); or

         (2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on)
any Security of that series at its Maturity; or

         (3) default in the performance, or breach, in any material respect, of
any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant
or warranty a default in the performance of which or the breach of which is
elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with), and continuance of such
default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by
registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company
and the Trustee

34

by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities
of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring
it to be remedied; or

         (4) the entry of a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in
the premises adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as
properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or
composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or
State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law, or appointing
a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar
official) of the Company or of any substantial part of its property or ordering
the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such
decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or

         (5) the institution by the Company of proceedings to be adjudicated a
bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the institution of bankruptcy or
insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer
or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or
State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law, or the
consent by it to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a
receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar
official) of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the
making by it of an assignment for the benefit for creditors, or the admission by
it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due and
its willingness to be adjudicated a bankrupt, or the taking of corporate action
by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or

         (6) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of
that series.

         SECTION 5.2.   Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.

         If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in
Section 5.1(4) or 5.1(5)) with respect to Securities of any series at the time
Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or
the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding
Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if the
Securities of that series are Discount Securities, such portion of the principal
amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all the Securities of
that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the
Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), provided that, in the case of
the Securities of a series issued to a Trust, if, upon an Event of Default, the
Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of that series fail to declare the principal of all the
Securities of that series to be immediately due and payable, the holders of at
least 25% in aggregate liquidation amount of the corresponding series of
Preferred Securities then outstanding shall have such right by a notice in
writing to the Company and the Trustee; and upon any such declaration such
principal amount (or specified portion thereof) of and the accrued interest
(including any Additional Interest) on all the Securities of such series shall
become immediately due and payable. Payment of principal and interest (including
any Additional Interest) on such Securities shall remain subordinated to the
extent provided in Article XIII notwithstanding that such amount shall become
immediately due and payable as herein provided. If an Event of Default specified
in Section 5.1(4) or 5.1(5) with respect to Securities of any series at the time
Outstanding occurs, the principal amount of all the

35

Securities of that series (or, if the Securities of that series are Discount
Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be
specified by the terms of that series) shall automatically, and without any
declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become
immediately due and payable.

         At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to
Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for
payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this
Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the
Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:

         (1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient
to pay:

         (A) all overdue installments of interest (including any Additional
Interest) on all Securities of that series,

         (B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that
series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration
and interest thereon at the rate borne by the Securities, and

         (C) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the
reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee,
its agents and counsel; and

         (2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series,
other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series which
has become due solely by such acceleration, have been cured or waived as
provided in Section 5.13.

         In the case of Securities of a series issued to a Trust, the holders of
a majority in aggregate Liquidation Amount (as defined in the Trust Agreement
under which such Trust is formed) of the related series of Preferred Securities
issued by such Trust shall also have the right to rescind and annul such
declaration and its consequences by written notice to the Company and the
Trustee, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Clauses (1)
and (2) above of this Section 5.2.

         No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any
right consequent thereon.

         SECTION 5.3.   Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by
Trustee.

         The Company covenants that if:

         (1) default is made in the payment of any installment of interest
(including any Additional Interest) on any Security when such interest becomes
due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or

36

(2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (and premium, if
any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof,

the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to the Trustee, for the
benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable
on such Securities for principal, including any sinking fund payment or
analogous obligations (and premium, if any) and interest (including any
Additional Interest); and, in addition thereto, all amounts owing the Trustee
under Section 6.7.

         If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand,
the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a
judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may
prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same
against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities and collect the
moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of
the property of the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities, wherever
situated.

         If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs
and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and
enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by
such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual
to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of
any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any
power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.

         SECTION 5.4.   Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.

         In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation,
bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other
judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the
Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their
creditors,

         (a) the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the
Securities of any series shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or
by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have
made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal (and
premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest)) shall be
entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,

         (i) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (and
premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) owing and
unpaid in respect to the Securities and to file such other papers or documents
as may be necessary or advisable and to take any and all actions as are
authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have the claims of the
Holders and any predecessor to the Trustee under Section 6.7 allowed in any such
judicial proceedings; and

37

(ii) in particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and
receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims
and to distribute the same in accordance with Section 5.6; and

         (b) any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator,
sequestrator (or other similar official) in any such judicial proceeding is
hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee for
distribution in accordance with Section 5.6, and in the event that the Trustee
shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to
the Trustee any amount due to it and any predecessor Trustee under Section 6.7.

         Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to
authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of
reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities
or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in
respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding; provided, however,
that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a
trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or
other similar committee.

         SECTION 5.5.   Trustee May Enforce Claim Without Possession of
Securities.

         All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities
may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of
the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and
any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name
as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after
provision for the payment of all the amounts owing the Trustee and any
predecessor Trustee under Section 6.7, its agents and counsel, be for the
ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such
judgment has been recovered.

         SECTION 5.6.   Application of Money Collected.

         Any money or property collected or to be applied by the Trustee with
respect to a series of Securities pursuant to this Article shall be applied in
the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of
the distribution of such money or property on account of principal (or premium,
if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), upon presentation of
the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid
and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:

         FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee and any
predecessor Trustee under Section 6.7;

         SECOND: Subject to Article XIII, to the payment of the amounts then due
and unpaid upon such series of Securities for principal (and premium, if any)
and interest (including any Additional Interest), in respect of which or for the
benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or
priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such series of
Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest (including any
Additional Interest), respectively; and

38

THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Person or Persons entitled thereto.

         SECTION 5.7.   Limitation on Suits.

         No Holder of any Securities of any series shall have any right to
institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture
or for the appointment of a receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator,
sequestrator (or other similar official) or for any other remedy hereunder,
unless:

         (1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a
continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;

         (2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the
Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own
name as Trustee hereunder;

         (3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable
indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in
compliance with such request;

         (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request
and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and

         (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given
to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in
principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;

it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have
any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing itself of, any
provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any
other Holders of Securities, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or
preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this
Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable
benefit of all such Holders.

39

SECTION 5.8.   Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal,
Premium and Interest; Direct Action by Holders of Preferred Securities.

         Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of
any Security shall have the right which is absolute and unconditional to receive
payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 3.7)
interest (including any Additional Interest) on such Security on the respective
Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on
the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such
payment, and such right shall not be impaired without the consent of such
Holder. In the case of Securities of a series issued to a Trust, any holder of
the corresponding series of Preferred Securities issued by such Trust shall have
the right, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default described in Section
5.1(1) or 5.1(2), to institute a suit directly against the Company for
enforcement of payment to such holder of principal of (premium, if any) and
(subject to Section 3.7) interest (including any Additional Interest) on the
Securities having a principal amount equal to the aggregate Liquidation Amount
(as defined in the Trust Agreement under which such Trust is formed) of such
Preferred Securities of the corresponding series held by such holder.

         SECTION 5.9.   Restoration of Rights and Remedies.

         If the Trustee, any Holder or any holder of Preferred Securities has
instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture
and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has
been determined adversely to the Trustee, such Holder or such holder of
Preferred Securities, then and in every such case the Company, the Trustee, the
Holders and such holder of Preferred Securities shall, subject to any
determination in such proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to
their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the
Trustee, the Holders and the holders of Preferred Securities shall continue as
though no such proceeding had been instituted.

         SECTION 5.10.  Rights and Remedies Cumulative.

         Except as otherwise provided in the last paragraph of Section 3.6, no
right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the
Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every
right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in
addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter
existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any
right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent
assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.

         SECTION 5.11.  Delay or Omission Not Waiver.

         No delay or omission of the Trustee, any Holder of any Security or any
holder of any Preferred Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon
any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a
waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein.

40

Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee
or to the Holders and the right and remedy given to the holders of Preferred
Securities by Section 5.8 may be exercised from time to time, and as often as
may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee, the Holders or the holders of Preferred
Securities, as the case may be.

         SECTION 5.12.   Control by Holders.

         The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding
Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and
place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or
exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the
Securities of such series, provided that:

         (1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or
 with this Indenture,

         (2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee
 which is not inconsistent with such direction, and

         (3) subject to the provisions of Section 6.1, the Trustee shall have
the right to decline to follow such direction if a Responsible Officer or
Officers of the Trustee shall, in good faith, determine that the proceeding so
directed would be unjustly prejudicial to the Holders not joining in any such
direction or would involve the Trustee in personal liability.

         SECTION 5.13.   Waiver of Past Defaults.

         The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of any series and, in the case of any Securities of a
series issued to a Trust, the holders of Preferred Securities issued by such
Trust may waive any past default hereunder and its consequences with respect to
such series except a default:

         (1) in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest
(including any Additional Interest) on any Security of such series, or

         (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article IX
cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each
Outstanding Security of such series affected.

         Any such waiver shall be deemed to be on behalf of the Holders of all
the Securities of such series or, in the case of a waiver by holders of
Preferred Securities issued by such Trust, by all holders of Preferred
Securities issued by such Trust.

         Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event
of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every
purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or
other default or impair any right consequent thereon.

41

SECTION 5.14.   Undertaking for Costs.

         All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by
his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its
discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under
this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or
omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an
undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its
discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees,
against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and
good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the
Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in
the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of
any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the
payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest (including any
Additional Interest) on any Security on or after the respective Stated
Maturities expressed in such Security.

         SECTION 5.15.   Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws.

         The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that
it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim
or take the benefit or advantage of, any usury, stay or extension law wherever
enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants
or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may
lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such
law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any
power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of
every such power as though no such law had been enacted.

ARTICLE VI

                                   THE TRUSTEE

         SECTION 6.1.   Certain Duties and Responsibilities.

         (a) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default,

         (1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties
as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or
obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and

         (2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may
conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the
opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the
Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of
any such certificates or opinions which by any provisions hereof are
specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under
a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the
requirements of this Indenture.

42

(b) In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the
Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this
Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a
prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of
his own affairs.

         (c) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the
Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure
to act, or its own willful misconduct except that

         (1) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of
Subsection (a) of this Section;

         (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in
good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee
was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and

         (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or
omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of
Holders pursuant to Section 5.12 relating to the time, method and place of
conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising
any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect
to the Securities of such series.

         (d) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend
or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the
performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its
rights or powers, if there shall be reasonable grounds for believing that
repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is
not reasonably assured to it.

         (e) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of
this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or
affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this
Section.

43

SECTION 6.2.   Notice of Defaults.

         Within 90 days after actual knowledge by a Responsible Officer of the
Trustee of the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to the
Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders of
Securities of such series, as their names and addresses appear in the Securities
Register, notice of such default, unless such default shall have been cured or
waived; provided, however, that, except in the case of a default in the payment
of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional
Interest) on any Security of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in
withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive
committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the
Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the
interests of the Holders of Securities of such series; and provided, further,
that, in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 5.1(3),
no such notice to Holders of Securities of such series shall be given until at
least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the
term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or
both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such
series.

         SECTION 6.3.   Certain Rights of Trustee.

         Subject to the provisions of Section 6.1:

         (a) the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining
from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion,
report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, Security or
other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or
presented by the proper party or parties;

         (b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be
sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution
of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;

         (c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall
deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking,
suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence
be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part,
rely upon an Officers' Certificate;

         (d) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the advice of such counsel
or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and
protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder
in good faith and in reliance thereon;

         (e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the
rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of
any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have
offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs,
expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such
request or direction;

44

(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the
facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument,
opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, indenture,
Security or other paper or document, but the Trustee in its discretion may make
such inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and,
if the Trustee shall determine to make such inquiry or investigation, it shall
be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company,
personally or by agent or attorney; and

         (g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or
perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or
attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or
negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it
hereunder.

         SECTION 6.4.   Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.

         The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the
Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of
the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any
responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to
the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. Neither the
Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or
application by the Company of the Securities or the proceeds thereof.

         SECTION 6.5.   May Hold Securities.

         The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Securities
Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other
capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections
6.8 and 6.13, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would
have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Securities
Registrar or such other agent.

         SECTION 6.6.   Money Held in Trust.

         Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated
from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be
under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as
otherwise agreed with the Company.

         SECTION 6.7.   Compensation and Reimbursement.

         The Company agrees

         (1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for
all services rendered by it hereunder in such amounts as the Company and the
Trustee shall agree from time to time (which compensation shall not be limited
by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express
trust);

45

(2) to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable
expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in
accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable
compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel),
except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its
negligence or bad faith; and

         (3) to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any
loss, liability or expense (including the reasonable compensation and the
expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel) incurred without
negligence or bad faith, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or
administration of this trust or the performance of its duties hereunder,
including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or
liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or
duties hereunder. This indemnification shall survive the termination of this
Agreement.

         To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section, the
Company and the Holders agree that the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the
Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee. Such lien
shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.

         When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of
Default specified in Section 5.1(4) or (5) occurs, the expenses and the
compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of
administration under the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 or any successor statute.

         SECTION 6.8.   Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.

         The Trustee for the Securities of any series issued hereunder shall be
subject to the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. Nothing
herein shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application
referred to in the second to last paragraph of said Section 310(b).

         SECTION 6.9.   Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.

         There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be

         (a) a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the
United States of America or of any State or Territory or the District of
Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers and
subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State, Territorial or District
of Columbia authority, or

         (b) a corporation or other Person organized and doing business under
the laws of a foreign government that is permitted to act as Trustee pursuant to
a rule, regulation or order of the Commission, authorized under such laws to
exercise corporate trust powers, and subject to supervision or examination by
authority of such foreign government or a political subdivision thereof
substantially equivalent to supervision or examination applicable to United
States institutional trustees,

46

in either case having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000,
subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such
corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or
to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then,
for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such
corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth
in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee
shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it
shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified
in this Article. Neither the Company nor any Person directly or indirectly
controlling, controlled by or under common control with the Company shall serve
as Trustee for the Securities of any series issued hereunder.

         SECTION 6.10.   Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.

         (a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a
successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the
acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee under Section 6.11.

         (b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities
of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If an
instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to
the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the
resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the
appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such
series.

         (c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the
Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount
of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to
the Company.

         (d)   If at any time:

         (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 6.8 after written
request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder
of a Security for at least six months, or

         (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 6.9 and shall
fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such
Holder, or

         (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a
bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be
appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or
of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or
liquidation,

then, in any such case, (i) the Company, acting pursuant to the authority of a
Board Resolution, may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii)
subject to Section 5.14, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a
Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others
similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal
of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor
Trustee or Trustees.

47

(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of
acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause with
respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board
Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the
Securities of that or those series. If, within one year after such resignation,
removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee
with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the
Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such
series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee
so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, become
the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and
supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor
Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so
appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner
hereinafter provided, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security
for at least six months may, subject to Section 5.14, on behalf of himself and
all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for
the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such
series.

         (f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal
of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment
of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series by mailing
written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the
Holders of Securities of such series as their names and addresses appear in the
Securities Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee
with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate
Trust Office.

         SECTION 6.11.   Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.

         (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with
respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall
execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an
instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal
of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee,
without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the
rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request
of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon
payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such
successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and
shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property
and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.

         (b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with
respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the
retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of
one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto
wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall
contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and
confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers,
trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that
or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2)
if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall
contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm
that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with
respect to the Securities of

48

that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall
continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change
any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or
facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee,
it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall
constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such
Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from
any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon
the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or
removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided
therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or
conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts, and duties
of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series
to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of
the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign,
transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by
such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those
series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.

         (c) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall
execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and
confirming to such successor Trustee all rights, powers and trusts referred to
in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.

         (d) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the
time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible
under this Article.

         SECTION 6.12.   Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to
Business.

         Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or
with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger,
conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any
corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust
business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder,
provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this
Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the
part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been
authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor
by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt
such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated, and in case any
Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may
authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor Trustee or in
the name of such successor Trustee, and in all cases the certificate of
authentication shall have the full force which it is provided anywhere in the
Securities or in this Indenture that the certificate of the Trustee shall have.

         SECTION 6.13.   Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.

         If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company
(or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the
provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against
the Company (or any such other obligor).

49

SECTION 6.14.   Appointment of Authenticating Agent.

         The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect
to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf
of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original
issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof
or pursuant to Section 3.6, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to
the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all
purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is
made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the
Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be
deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an
Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the
Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business
under the laws of the United States of America, or of any State or Territory or
the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating
Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and
subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such
Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant
to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then
for the purposes of this Section the combined capital and surplus of such
Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as
set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an
Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the
provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately
in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.

         Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or
converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting
from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent
shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of
the corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent shall be the successor
Authenticating Agent hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise
eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any
further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.

         An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice
thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate
the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such
Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of
resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such
Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the
provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating
Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give notice of such
appointment in the manner provided in Section 1.6 to all Holders of Securities
of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve. Any
successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder
shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor
hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent.
No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the
provision of this Section.

50

The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to
time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the
Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the
provisions of Section 6.7.

         If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant
to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in
addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative
certificate of authentication in the following form:

         This is one of the Securities referred to in the within mentioned
Indenture.

Dated:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            As Trustee

By:---------------------------------
                                               As Authenticating Agent

By:---------------------------------
                                               Authorized Officer

ARTICLE VII

                HOLDER'S LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY

         SECTION 7.1.   Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of
Holders.

         The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:

         (a) semi-annually, not more than 15 days after            and
in each year, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the
names and addresses of the Holders as of such                and          , and

         (b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within
30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar
form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list
is furnished,

excluding from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its
capacity as Securities Registrar.

51

SECTION 7.2.   Preservation of Information, Communications to Holders.

         (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably
practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent
list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 7.1 and the names and
addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Securities
Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in
Section 7.1 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.

         (b) The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with
respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the
corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided in the
Trust Indenture Act.

         (c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same,
agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee
nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the
disclosure of information as to the names and addresses of the Holders made
pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.

         SECTION 7.3.   Reports by Trustee.

         (a) The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the
Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the
Trust Indenture Act, at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.

         (b) Reports so required to be transmitted at stated intervals of not
more than 12 months shall be transmitted no later than          in each calendar
year, commencing with the first           after the first issuance of Securities
under this Indenture.

         (c) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission
to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any
Securities are listed and also with the Commission. The Company will notify the
Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange.

         SECTION 7.4.   Reports by Company.

         The Company shall file with the Trustee and with the Commission, and
transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such
summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the
times and in the manner provided in the Trust Indenture Act; provided that any
such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with
the Trustee within 15 days after the same is required to be filed with the
Commission. Notwithstanding that the Company may not be required to remain
subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act, the Company shall continue to file with the Commission and provide the
Trustee with the annual reports and the information, documents and other reports
which are specified in Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company
also shall comply with the other provisions of Trust Indenture Act Section
314(a).

52

ARTICLE VIII

              CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE

         SECTION 8.1.   Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.

         The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person
or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an
entirety to any Person, and no Person shall consolidate with or merge into the
Company or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as
an entirety to the Company, unless:
         (1) in case the Company shall consolidate with or merge into another
Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as
an entirety to any Person, the corporation formed by such consolidation or into
which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or
transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company
substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation, partnership or trust
organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any
State or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture
supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory
to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium,
if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) on all the Securities
and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the
Company to be performed or observed;

         (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of
Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would
become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing;

         (3) in the case of the Securities of a series issued to a Trust, such
consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease is permitted under the
related Trust Agreement and Guarantee and does not give rise to any breach or
violation of the related Trust Agreement or Guarantee; and

         (4) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate
and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger,
conveyance, transfer or lease and any such supplemental indenture comply with
this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to
such transaction have been complied with; and the Trustee, subject to Section
6.1, may rely upon such Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel as
conclusive evidence that such transaction complies with this Section 8.1.

53

SECTION 8.2.   Successor Corporation Substituted.

         Upon any consolidation or merger by the Company with or into any other
Person, or any conveyance, transfer or lease by the Company of its properties
and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person in accordance with Section
8.1, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the
Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall
succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of,
the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor
Person had been named as the Company herein; and in the event of any such
conveyance, transfer or lease the Company shall be discharged from all
obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities and may be
dissolved and liquidated.

         Such successor Person may cause to be signed, and may issue either in
its own name or in the name of the Company, any or all of the Securities
issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company
and delivered to the Trustee; and, upon the order of such successor Person
instead of the Company and subject to all the terms, conditions and limitations
in this Indenture prescribed, the Trustee shall authenticate and shall deliver
any Securities which previously shall have been signed and delivered by the
officers of the Company to the Trustee for authentication pursuant to such
provisions and any Securities which such successor Person thereafter shall cause
to be signed and delivered to the Trustee on its behalf for the purpose pursuant
to such provisions. All the Securities so issued shall in all respects have the
same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Securities theretofore
or thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though
all of such Securities had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.

         In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance or lease,
such changes in phraseology and form may be made in the Securities thereafter to
be issued as may be appropriate.

ARTICLE IX

                             SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES

         SECTION 9.1.   Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Holders.

         Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a
Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter
into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the
Trustee, for any of the following purposes:

         (1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company, and
the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and
in the Securities contained; or

         (2) to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or
with the Trustee or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the
Company; or

54

(3) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as
permitted by Sections 2.1 or 3.1; or

         (4) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the
Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for
the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants
are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to
surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or

         (5) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the
Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such additional Events of
Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating
that such additional Events of Default are expressly being included solely for
the benefit of such series); or

         (6) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture,
provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when
there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of
such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision;
or

         (7) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision
herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein,
or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising
under this Indenture, provided that such action pursuant to this clause (7)
shall not adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Securities of any
series in any material respect or, in the case of the Securities of a series
issued to a Trust and for so long as any of the corresponding series of
Preferred Securities issued by such Trust shall remain outstanding, the holders
of such Preferred Securities; or

         (8) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder
by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and
to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be
necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts
hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section
6.11(b); or

         (9) to comply with the requirements of the Commission in order to
effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture
Act.

         SECTION 9.2.   Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.

         With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in
principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such
supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the
Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may
enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of
adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the
provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the
Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however,
that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of
each Outstanding Security affected thereby,

55

(1) except to the extent permitted by Section 3.11 or as otherwise
specified as contemplated by Section 2.1 or Section 3.1 with respect to the
deferral of the payment of interest on the Securities of any series, change the
Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of interest (including
any Additional Interest) on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount
thereof or the rate of interest thereon or reduce any premium payable upon the
redemption thereof, or reduce the amount of principal of a Discount Security
that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity
thereof pursuant to Section 5.2, or change the place of payment where, or the
coin or currency in which, any Security or interest thereon is payable, or
impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or
after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after
the Redemption Date), or

         (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding
Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such
supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any
waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain
defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or

         (3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 5.13 or
Section 10.5, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain
other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the
consent of the Holder of each Security affected thereby; or

         (4) modify the provisions in Article XIII of this Indenture with
respect to the subordination of Outstanding Securities of any series in a manner
adverse to the Holders thereof;

provided, further, that, in the case of the Securities of a series issued to a
Trust, so long as any of the corresponding series of Preferred Securities issued
by such Trust remains outstanding, (i) no such amendment shall be made that
adversely affects the holders of such Preferred Securities in any material
respect, and no termination of this Indenture shall occur, and no waiver of any
Event of Default or compliance with any covenant under this Indenture shall be
effective, without the prior consent of the holders of at least a majority of
the aggregate liquidation preference of such Preferred Securities then
outstanding unless and until the principal (and premium, if any) of the
Securities of such series and all accrued and, subject to Section 3.7, unpaid
interest (including any Additional Interest) thereon have been paid in full and
(ii) no amendment shall be made to Section 5.8 of this Indenture that would
impair the rights of the holders of Preferred Securities provided therein
without the prior consent of the holders of each Preferred Security then
outstanding unless and until the principal (and premium, if any) of the
Securities of such series and all accrued and (subject to Section 3.7) unpaid
interest (including any Additional Interest) thereon have been paid in full.

         A supplemental indenture that changes or eliminates any covenant or
other provision of this Indenture that has expressly been included solely for
the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities or Preferred
Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities or holders
of Preferred Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other
provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the
Holders of Securities or holders of Preferred Securities of any other series.

56

It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to
approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall
be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.

         SECTION 9.3.   Execution of Supplemental Indentures.

         In executing or accepting the additional trusts created by any
supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of
the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive,
and (subject to Section 6.1) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an
Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of
such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture, and
that all conditions precedent have been complied with. The Trustee may, but
shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which
affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or
otherwise.

         SECTION 9.4.   Effect of Supplemental Indentures.

         Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article,
this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental
indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder
of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder
shall be bound thereby.

         SECTION 9.5.   Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.

         Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall
conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.

         SECTION 9.6.   Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.

         Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any
supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by
the Company, bear a notation in form approved by the Company as to any matter
provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine,
new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the
Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the
Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for
Outstanding Securities of such series.

ARTICLE X

                                    COVENANTS

         SECTION 10.1.   Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.

         The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of
securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium,
if any) and interest on the Securities of

57

that series in accordance with the terms of such Securities and this Indenture.

         SECTION 10.2.   Maintenance of Office or Agency.

         The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of
Securities, an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented
or surrendered for payment and an office or agency where Securities of that
series may be surrendered for transfer or exchange and where notices and demands
to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this
Indenture may be served. The Company initially appoints the Trustee, acting
through its Corporate Trust Office, as its agent for said purposes. The Company
will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any change in the location of
any such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain
such office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address
thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or
served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby
appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders,
notices and demands.

         The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other
offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any
or all of such purposes, and may from time to time rescind such designations;
provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner
relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each
Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company
will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation and any
change in the location of any such office or agency.

         SECTION 10.3.   Money for Security Payments to be Held in Trust.

         If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with
respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the
principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any of the Securities of such
series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled
thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest
so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise
disposed of as herein provided, and will promptly notify the Trustee of its
failure so to act.

         Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents, it will,
prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on each due date of the principal of or
interest on any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay
the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be
held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal and
premium (if any) or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the
Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its failure so to act.

         The Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to
execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent
shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that
such Paying Agent will:

58

(1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and
premium, if any) or interest on Securities in trust for the benefit of the
Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or
otherwise disposed of as herein provided;

         (2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other
obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment of principal (and
premium, if any) or interest;

         (3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the
written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in
trust by such Paying Agent; and

         (4) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to
it as a Paying Agent.

         The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the
satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or
by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in
trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee
upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or
such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee,
such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to
such money.

         Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held
by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if
any) or interest on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after
such principal (and premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable
shall (unless otherwise required by mandatory provision of applicable escheat or
abandoned or unclaimed property law) be paid on Company Request to the Company,
or (if then held by the Company) shall (unless otherwise required by mandatory
provision of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law) be
discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as
an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and
all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust
money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon
cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being
required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to
be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily
published on each Business Day and of general circulation in the Borough of
Manhattan, The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and
that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from
the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining
will be repaid to the Company.

59

SECTION 10.4.   Statement as to Compliance.

         The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end
of each calendar year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers'
Certificate covering the preceding calendar year, stating whether or not to the
best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the
performance, observance or fulfillment of or compliance with any of the terms,
provisions, covenants and conditions of this Indenture, and if the Company shall
be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of
which they may have knowledge. For the purpose of this Section 10.4, compliance
shall be determined without regard to any grace period or requirement of notice
provided pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.

         SECTION 10.5.   Waiver of Certain Covenants.

         The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any
covenant or condition provided pursuant to Section 3.1, 9.1(3) or 9.1(4) with
respect to the Securities of any series, if before or after the time for such
compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either
waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such
covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such
covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such
waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company in respect of any
such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.

         SECTION 10.6.   Additional Sums.

         In the case of the Securities of a series issued to a Trust, so long as
no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and except as otherwise
specified as contemplated by Section 2.1 or Section 3.1, in the event that (i) a
Trust is the Holder of all of the Outstanding Securities of such series, (ii) a
Tax Event in respect of such Trust shall have occurred and be continuing and
(iii) the Company shall not have (A) redeemed the Securities of such series
pursuant to Section 11.7(b) or (B) terminated such Trust pursuant to Section
9.2(b) of the related Trust Agreement, the Company shall pay to such Trust (and
its permitted successors or assigns under the related Trust Agreement) for so
long as such Trust (or its permitted successor or assignee) is the registered
holder of any Securities of such series, such additional amounts as may be
necessary in order that the amount of Distributions (including any Additional
Amounts (as defined in such Trust Agreement)) then due and payable by such Trust
on the related Preferred Securities and Common Securities that at any time
remain outstanding in accordance with the terms thereof shall not be reduced as
a result of any Additional Taxes (the "Additional Sums"). Whenever in this
Indenture or the Securities there is a reference in any context to the payment
of principal of or interest on the Securities, such mention shall be deemed to
include mention of the payments of the Additional Sums provided for in this
paragraph to the extent that, in such context, Additional Sums are, were or
would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph
and express mention of the payment of Additional Sums (if applicable) in any
provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Sums in those
provisions hereof where such express mention is not made; provided, however,
that the deferral of the payment of interest pursuant to Section 3.11 or the
Securities shall not defer the payment of any Additional Sums that may be due
and payable.

60

SECTION 10.7.   Additional Covenants.

         The Company covenants and agrees with each Holder of Securities of each
series that it shall not, and it shall not permit any Subsidiary of the Company
to, (a) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem purchase,
acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of the
Company's capital stock, or (b) make any payment of principal of or interest or
premium, if any, on or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt securities of the
Company that rank pari passu with or junior in interest to the Securities of
such series or make any guarantee payments with respect to any guarantee by the
Company of debt securities of any subsidiary of the Company if such guarantee
ranks pari passu with or junior in interest to the Securities (other than (a)
dividends or distributions in Common Stock, (b) any declaration of a dividend in
connection with the implementation of a Rights Plan, the issuance of any rights,
of any Common Stock or any class or series of preferred stock of the Company or
of any other property under any Rights Plan or the repurchase of any rights
distributed pursuant to a Rights Plan, (c) payments under any Guarantee, and (d)
purchases of Common Stock related to the issuance of Common Stock under any of
the Company's benefit plans for its directors, officers or employees) if at such
time (i) there shall have occurred any event of which the Company has actual
knowledge that (A) with the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both, would
constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series and
(B) in respect of which the Company shall not have taken reasonable steps to
cure, (ii) if the Securities of such series are held by a Trust, the Company
shall be in default with respect to its payment of any obligations under the
Guarantee relating to the Preferred Securities issued by such Trust or (iii) the
Company shall have given notice of its election to begin an Extension Period
with respect to the Securities of such series as provided herein and shall not
have rescinded such notice, or such Extension Period, or any extension thereof,
shall be continuing.

         The Company also covenants with each Holder of Securities of a series
issued to a Trust (i) to maintain directly or indirectly 100% ownership of the
Common Securities of such Trust; provided, however, that any permitted successor
of the Company hereunder may succeed to the Company's ownership of such Common
Securities, (ii) not to voluntarily terminate, wind-up or liquidate such Trust,
except (a) in connection with a distribution of the Securities of such series to
the holders of Preferred Securities in liquidation of such Trust or (b) in
connection with certain mergers, consolidations or amalgamations permitted by
the related Trust Agreement and (iii) to use its reasonable efforts, consistent
with the terms and provisions of such Trust Agreement, to cause such Trust to
remain classified as a grantor trust and not an association taxable as a
corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.

61

ARTICLE XI

                            REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES

         SECTION 11.1.   Applicability of This Article.

         Redemption of Securities of any series (whether by operation of a
sinking fund or otherwise) as permitted or required by any form of Security
issued pursuant to this Indenture shall be made in accordance with such form of
Security and this Article; provided, however, that if any provision of any such
form of Security shall conflict with any provision of this Article, the
provision of such form of Security shall govern. Except as otherwise set forth
in the form of Security for such series, each Security of such series shall be
subject to partial redemption only in the amount of $25 or, in the case of the
Securities of a series issued to a Trust, $25, or integral multiples thereof.

         SECTION 11.2.   Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.

         The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced
by or pursuant to a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election
of the Company of less than all of the Securities of any particular series and
having the same terms, the Company shall, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days
prior to the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to
the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such date and of the principal amount of
Securities of that series to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of
Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption
provided in the terms of such Securities, the Company shall furnish the Trustee
with an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel evidencing compliance
with such restriction.

         SECTION 11.3.   Selection of Securities to be Redeemed.

         If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed
(unless all the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be
redeemed or unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the
particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days
prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of
such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee
shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for
redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such series,
provided that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security
shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum
authorized denomination) for such Security. If less than all the Securities of
such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed (unless such redemption
affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall
be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee,
from the Outstanding Securities of such series and specified tenor not
previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence.

         The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the
Securities selected for partial redemption and the principal amount thereof to
be redeemed. For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise
requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of

62

Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed
only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has
been or is to be redeemed. If the Company shall so direct, Securities registered
in the name of the Company, any Affiliate or any Subsidiary thereof shall not be
included in the Securities selected for redemption.

         SECTION 11.4.   Notice of Redemption.

         Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage
prepaid, mailed not later than the thirtieth day, and not earlier than the
sixtieth day, prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be
redeemed, at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Securities
Register.

         With respect to Securities of each series to be redeemed, each notice
of redemption shall state:

         (a) the Redemption Date;

         (b) the Redemption Price;

         (c) if less than all Outstanding Securities of such particular series
and having the same terms are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the
case of partial redemption, the respective principal amounts) of the particular
Securities to be redeemed;

         (d) that on the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price will become due
and payable upon each such Security or portion thereof, and that interest
thereon, if any, shall cease to accrue on and after said date;

         (e) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for
payment of the Redemption Price; and

         (f) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case.

         Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of
the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the
Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall not be
irrevocable. The notice if mailed in the manner herein provided shall be
conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder
receives such notice. In any case, a failure to give such notice by mail or any
defect in the notice to the Holder of any Security designated for redemption as
a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any other Security.

63

SECTION 11.5.   Deposit of Redemption Price.

         Prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the Redemption Date specified
in the notice of redemption given as provided in Section 11.4, the Company will
deposit with the Trustee or with one or more Paying Agents (or if the Company is
acting as its own Paying Agent, the Company will segregate and hold in trust as
provided in Section 10.3) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption
Price of, and any accrued interest (including Additional Interest) on, all the
Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.

         SECTION 11.6.   Payment of Securities Called for Redemption.

         If any notice of redemption has been given as provided in Section 11.4,
the Securities or portion of Securities with respect to which such notice has
been given shall become due and payable on the date and at the place or places
stated in such notice at the applicable Redemption Price. On presentation and
surrender of such Securities at a Place of Payment in said notice specified, the
said securities or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and redeemed by
the Company at the applicable Redemption Price, together with accrued interest
(including any Additional Interest) to the Redemption Date; provided, however,
that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1, installments of
interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be
payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor
Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record
Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 3.7.

         Upon presentation of any Security redeemed in part only, the Company
shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder
thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities of the same
series, of authorized denominations, in aggregate principal amount equal to the
unredeemed portion of the Security so presented and having the same Original
Issue Date, Stated Maturity and terms. If a Global Security is so surrendered,
such new Security will also be a new Global Security.

         If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon
surrender thereof for redemption, the principal of and premium, if any, on such
Security shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate
prescribed therefor in the Security.

         SECTION 11.7.   Right of Redemption of Securities Initially Issued to
a Trust.

         In the case of the Securities of a series initially issued to a Trust,
except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1, the Company, at
its option, may redeem such Securities (i) on or after the date five years after
the Original Issue Date of such Securities, in whole at any time or in part from
time to time, or (ii) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a Tax
Event, at any time within 90 days following the occurrence of such Tax Event in
respect of such Trust, in whole (but not in part), in each case at a Redemption
Price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof.

                                   ARTICLE XII

64

SINKING FUNDS

         SECTION 12.1.   Applicability of Article.

         The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund
for the retirement of Securities of any series except as otherwise specified as
contemplated by Section 3.1 for such Securities.

         The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the
terms of any Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory
sinking fund payment", and any sinking fund payment in excess of such minimum
amount which is permitted to be made by the terms of such Securities of any
series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided
for by the terms of any Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking
fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 12.2. Each
sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any
series as provided for by the terms of such Securities.

         SECTION 12.2.   Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.

         In lieu of making all or any part of a mandatory sinking fund payment
with respect to any Securities of a series in cash, the Company may at its
option, at any time no more than 16 months and no less than 30 days prior to the
date on which such sinking fund payment is due, deliver to the Trustee
Securities of such series (together with the unmatured coupons, if any,
appertaining thereto) theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired by the
Company, except Securities of such series that have been redeemed through the
application of mandatory or optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms
of the Securities of such series, accompanied by a Company Order instructing the
Trustee to credit such obligations and stating that the Securities of such
series were originally issued by the Company by way of bona fide sale or other
negotiation for value; provided that the Securities to be so credited have not
been previously so credited. The Securities to be so credited shall be received
and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the redemption price for such
Securities, as specified in the Securities so to be redeemed, for redemption
through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund
payment shall be reduced accordingly.

         SECTION 12.3.   Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.

         Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any
series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers'
Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for
such Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, the portion thereof,
if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash in the currency in which the
Securities of such series are payable (except as provided pursuant to Section
3.1) and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and
crediting Securities pursuant to Section 12.2 and will also deliver to the
Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Such Officers' Certificate shall be
irrevocable and upon its delivery the Company shall be obligated to make the
cash payment or payments therein referred to, if any, on or before the
succeeding sinking fund payment date. In the case of the failure of the Company
to deliver such Officers' Certificate (or,

65

as required by this Indenture, the Securities and coupons, if any, specified in
such Officers' Certificate), the sinking fund payment due on the succeeding
sinking fund payment date for such series shall be paid entirely in cash and
shall be sufficient to redeem the principal amount of the Securities of such
series subject to a mandatory sinking fund payment without the right to deliver
or credit securities as provided in Section 12.2 and without the right to make
the optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series at such time.

         Any sinking fund payment or payments (mandatory or optional) made in
cash plus any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payments made with
respect to the Securities of any particular series shall be applied by the
Trustee (or by the Company if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent) on
the sinking fund payment date on which such payment is made (or, if such payment
is made before a sinking fund payment date, on the sinking fund payment date
immediately following the date of such payment) to the redemption of Securities
of such series at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities with respect
to the sinking fund. Any sinking fund moneys not so applied or allocated by the
Trustee (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregated and
held in trust by the Company as provided in Section 10.3) for such series and
together with such payment (or such amount so segregated) shall be applied in
accordance with the provisions of this Section 12.3. Any and all sinking fund
moneys with respect to the Securities of any particular series held by the
Trustee (or if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregated and
held in trust as provided in Section 10.3) on the last sinking fund payment date
with respect to Securities of such series and not held for the payment or
redemption of particular Securities of such series shall be applied by the
Trustee (or by the Company if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent),
together with other moneys, if necessary, to be deposited (or segregated)
sufficient for the purpose, to the payment of the principal of the Securities of
such series at Maturity. The Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed
upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 11.3 and
cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the
expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 11.4. Such notice
having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the
terms and in the manner stated in Section 11.6. On or before each sinking fund
payment date, the Company shall pay to the Trustee (or, if the Company is acting
as its own Paying Agent, the Company shall segregate and hold in trust as
provided in Section 10.3) in cash a sum in the currency in which Securities of
such series are payable (except as provided pursuant to Section 3.1) equal to
the principal and any interest accrued to the Redemption Date for Securities or
portions thereof to be redeemed on such sinking fund payment date pursuant to
this Section 12.3.

         Neither the Trustee nor the Company shall redeem any Securities of a
series with sinking fund moneys or mail any notice of redemption of Securities
of such series by operation of the sinking fund for such series during the
continuance of a default in payment of interest, if any, on any Securities of
such series or of any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default occurring
as a consequence of this paragraph) with respect to the Securities of such
series, except that if the notice of redemption shall have been provided in
accordance with the provisions hereof, the Trustee (or the Company, if the
Company is then acting as its own Paying Agent) shall redeem such Securities if
cash sufficient for that purpose shall be deposited with the Trustee (or
segregated by the Company) for that purpose in accordance with the terms of this
Article XII. Except as aforesaid, any moneys in the sinking fund for such series
at the time when any such

66

default or Event of Default shall occur and any moneys thereafter paid into such
sinking fund shall, during the continuance of such default or Event of Default,
be held as security for the payment of the Securities and coupons, if any, of
such series; provided, however, that in case such default or Event of Default
shall have been cured or waived herein, such moneys shall thereafter be applied
on the next sinking fund payment date for the Securities of such series on which
such moneys may be applied pursuant to the provisions of this Section 12.3.

ARTICLE XIII

                           SUBORDINATION OF SECURITIES

         SECTION 13.1.   Securities Subordinate to Senior Debt.

         The Company covenants and agrees, and each Holder of a Security, by its
acceptance thereof, likewise covenants and agrees, that, to the extent and in
the manner hereinafter set forth in this Article, the payment of the principal
of (and premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) on
each and all of the Securities are hereby expressly made subordinate and subject
in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Debt.

         SECTION 13.2.   Payment Over of Proceeds Upon Dissolution, Etc.

         In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation,
bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other
judicial proceeding relative to the Company (each such event, if any, herein
sometimes referred to as a "Proceeding"), then the holders of Senior Debt shall
be entitled to receive payment in full of all Allocable Amounts of such Senior
Debt, or provision shall be made for such payment in cash or cash equivalents or
otherwise in a manner satisfactory to the holders of Senior Debt, before the
Holders of the Securities are entitled to receive or retain any payment or
distribution of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities
(including any payment or distribution which may be payable or deliverable by
reason of the payment of any other Debt of the Company (including any series of
the Securities) subordinated to the payment of the Securities, such payment or
distribution being hereinafter referred to as a "Junior Subordinated Payment"),
on account of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest (including any
Additional Interest) on the Securities or on account of the purchase or other
acquisition of Securities by the Company or any Subsidiary and to that end the
holders of Senior Debt shall be entitled to receive, for application to the
payment thereof, any payment or distribution of any kind or character, whether
in cash, property or securities, including any Junior Subordinated Payment,
which may be payable or deliverable in respect of the Securities in any such
Proceeding.

         In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
Section, the Trustee or the Holder of any Security shall have received any
payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character,
whether in cash, property or securities, including any Junior Subordinated
Payment, before all Allocable Amounts of all Senior Debt are paid in full or
payment thereof is provided for in cash or cash equivalents or otherwise in a
manner satisfactory to the holders of Senior Debt, and if such fact shall, at or
prior to the time of such payment or

67

distribution, have been made known to the Trustee or, as the case may be, such
Holder, then and in such event such payment or distribution shall be paid over
or delivered forthwith to the trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, liquidating
trustee, custodian, assignee, agent or other Person making payment or
distribution of assets of the Company for application to the payment of all
Allocable Amounts of all Senior Debt remaining unpaid, to the extent necessary
to pay all Allocable Amounts of all Senior Debt in full, after giving effect to
any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the holders of Senior Debt.

         For purposes of this Article only, the words "any payment or
distribution of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities"
shall not be deemed to include shares of stock of the Company as reorganized or
readjusted, or securities of the Company or any other corporation provided for
by a plan of reorganization or readjustment which securities are subordinated in
right of payment to all then outstanding Senior Debt to substantially the same
extent as the Securities are so subordinated as provided in this Article. The
consolidation of the Company with, or the merger of the Company into, another
Person or the liquidation or dissolution of the Company following the sale of
all or substantially all of its properties and assets as an entirety to another
Person upon the terms and conditions set forth in Article VIII shall not be
deemed a Proceeding for the purposes of this Section if the Person formed by
such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which
acquires by sale such properties and assets as an entirety, as the case may be,
shall, as a part of such consolidation, merger, or sale comply with the
conditions set forth in Article VIII.

         SECTION 13.3.   Prior Payment to Senior Debt Upon Acceleration of
Securities.

         In the event that any Securities are declared due and payable before
their Stated Maturity, then and in such event the holders of the Senior Debt
outstanding at the time such Securities so become due and payable shall be
entitled to receive payment in full of all Allocable Amounts due on or in
respect of such Senior Debt (including any amounts due upon acceleration), or
provision shall be made for such payment in cash or cash equivalents or
otherwise in a manner satisfactory to the holders of Senior Debt, before the
Holders of the Securities are entitled to receive any payment or distribution of
any kind or character, whether in cash, properties or securities (including any
Junior Subordinated Payment) by the Company on account of the principal of (or
premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest) on the
Securities or on account of the purchase or other acquisition of Securities by
the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that nothing in this Section
shall prevent the satisfaction of any sinking fund payment in accordance with
this Indenture or as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 for the
Securities of any series by delivering and crediting pursuant to Section 12.2 or
as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 for the Securities of any
series Securities which have been acquired (upon redemption or otherwise) prior
to such declaration of acceleration.

         In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall
make any payment to the Trustee or the Holder of any Security prohibited by the
foregoing provisions of this Section, and if such fact shall, at or prior to the
time of such payment, have been made known to the Trustee or, as the case may
be, such Holder, then and in such event such payment shall be paid over and
delivered forthwith to the Company.

68

The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any payment with
respect to which Section 13.2 would be applicable.

         SECTION 13.4.   No Payment When Senior Debt in Default.

         (a) In the event and during the continuation of any default in the
payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Senior Debt, or
in the event that any event of default with respect to any Senior Debt shall
have occurred and be continuing and shall have resulted in such Senior Debt
becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would
otherwise have become due and payable, unless and until such event of default
shall have been cured or waived or shall have ceased to exist and such
acceleration shall have been rescinded or annulled, or (b) in the event any
judicial proceeding shall be pending with respect to any such default in payment
or such event or default, then no payment or distribution of any kind or
character, whether in cash, properties or securities (including any Junior
Subordinated Payment) shall be made by the Company on account of principal of
(or premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, on
the Securities or on account of the purchase or other acquisition of Securities
by the Company or any Subsidiary, in each case unless and until all Allocable
Amounts of such Senior Debt are paid in full; provided, however, that nothing in
this Section shall prevent the satisfaction of any sinking fund payment in
accordance with this Indenture or as otherwise specified as contemplated by
Section 3.1 for the Securities of any series by delivering and crediting
pursuant to Section 12.2 or as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section
3.1 for the Securities of any series Securities which have been acquired (upon
redemption or otherwise) prior to such default in payment or event of default.

         In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall
make any payment to the Trustee or the Holder of any Security prohibited by the
foregoing provisions of this Section, and if such fact shall, at or prior to the
time of such payment, have been made known to the Trustee or, as the case may
be, such Holder, then and in such event such payment shall be paid over and
delivered forthwith to the Company.

         The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any payment with
respect to which Section 13.2 would be applicable.

         SECTION 13.5.   Payment Permitted If No Default.

         Nothing contained in this Article or elsewhere in this Indenture or in
any of the Securities shall prevent (a) the Company, at any time except during
the pendency of any Proceeding referred to in Section 13.2 or under the
conditions described in Sections 13.3 and 13.4, from making payments at any time
of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest (including Additional
Interest) on the Securities, or (b) the application by the Trustee of any money
deposited with it hereunder to the payment of or on account of the principal of
(and premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest) on the
Securities or the retention of such payment by the Holders, if, at the time of
such application by the Trustee, it did not have knowledge that such payment
would have been prohibited by the provisions of this Article.

69

SECTION 13.6.   Subrogation to Rights of Holders of Senior Debt.

         Subject to the payment in full of all amounts due or to become due on
all Senior Debt, or the provision for such payment in cash or cash equivalents
or otherwise in a manner satisfactory to the holders of Senior Debt, the Holders
of the Securities shall be subrogated to the extent of the payments or
distributions made to the holders of such Senior Debt pursuant to the provisions
of this Article (equally and ratably with the holders of all indebtedness of the
Company which by its express terms is subordinated to Senior Debt of the Company
to substantially the same extent as the Securities are subordinated to the
Senior Debt and is entitled to like rights of subrogation by reason of any
payments or distributions made to holders of such Senior Debt) to the rights of
the holders of such Senior Debt to receive payments and distributions of cash,
property and securities applicable to the Senior Debt until the principal of
(and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities shall be paid in full. For
purposes of such subrogation, no payments or distributions to the holders of the
Senior Debt of any cash, property or securities to which the Holders of the
Securities or the Trustee would be entitled except for the provisions of this
Article, and no payments over pursuant to the provisions of this Article to the
holders of Senior Debt by Holders of the Securities or the Trustee, shall, as
among the Company, its creditors other than holders of Senior Debt, and the
Holders of the Securities, be deemed to be a payment or distribution by the
Company to or on account of the Senior Debt.

         SECTION 13.7.   Provisions Solely to Define Relative Rights.

         The provisions of this Article are and are intended solely for the
purpose of defining the relative rights of the Holders of the Securities on the
one hand and the holders of Senior Debt on the other hand. Nothing contained in
this Article or elsewhere in this Indenture or in the Securities is intended to
or shall (a) impair, as between the Company and the Holders of the Securities,
the obligations of the Company, which are absolute and unconditional, to pay to
the Holders of the Securities the principal of (and premium, if any) and
interest (including any Additional Interest) on the Securities as and when the
same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms; or (b) affect
the relative rights against the Company of the Holders of the Securities and
creditors of the Company other than their rights in relation to the holders of
Senior Debt; or (c) prevent the Trustee or the Holder of any Security from
exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under
this Indenture including, without limitation, filing and voting claims in any
Proceeding, subject to the rights, if any, under this Article of the holders of
Senior Debt to receive cash, property and securities otherwise payable or
deliverable to the Trustee or such Holder.

         SECTION 13.8.   Trustee to Effectuate Subordination.

         Each Holder of a Security by his or her acceptance thereof authorizes
and directs the Trustee on his or her behalf to take such action as may be
necessary or appropriate to acknowledge or effectuate the subordination provided
in this Article and appoints the Trustee his or her attorney-in-fact for any and
all such purposes.

70

SECTION 13.9.   No Waiver of Subordination Provisions.

         No right of any present or future holder of any Senior Debt to enforce
subordination as herein provided shall at any time in any way be prejudiced or
impaired by any act or failure to act on the part of the Company or by any act
or failure to act, in good faith, by any such holder, or by any noncompliance by
the Company with the terms, provisions and covenants of this Indenture,
regardless of any knowledge thereof that any such holder may have or be
otherwise charged with.

         Without in any way limiting the generality of the immediately preceding
paragraph, the holders of Senior Debt may, at any time and from to time, without
the consent of or notice to the Trustee or the Holders of the Securities,
without incurring responsibility to the Holders of the Securities and without
impairing or releasing the subordination provided in this Article or the
obligations hereunder of the Holders of the Securities to the holders of Senior
Debt, do any one or more of the following: (i) change the manner, place or terms
of payment or extend the time of payment of, or renew or alter, Senior Debt, or
otherwise amend or supplement in any manner Senior Debt or any instrument
evidencing the same or any agreement under which Senior Debt is outstanding;
(ii) sell, exchange, release or otherwise deal with any property pledged,
mortgaged or otherwise securing Senior Debt; (iii) release any Person liable in
any manner for the collection of Senior Debt; and (iv) exercise or refrain from
exercising any rights against the Company and any other Person.

         SECTION 13.10.  Notice to Trustee.

         The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any fact
known to the Company which would prohibit the making of any payment to or by the
Trustee in respect of the Securities. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
Article or any other provision of this Indenture, the Trustee shall not be
charged with knowledge of the existence of any facts which would prohibit the
making of any payment to or by the Trustee in respect of the Securities, unless
and until the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof from the
Company or a holder of Senior Debt or from any trustee, agent or representative
therefor; provided, however, that if the Trustee shall not have received the
notice provided for in this Section at least two Business Days prior to the date
upon which by the terms hereof any monies may become payable for any purpose
(including, without limitation, the payment of the principal of (and premium, if
any) or interest (including any Additional Interest) on any Security), then,
anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall
have full power and authority to receive such monies and to apply the same to
the purpose for which they were received and shall not be affected by any notice
to the contrary which may be received by it within two Business Days prior to
such date.

         Subject to the provisions of Section 6.1, the Trustee shall be entitled
to rely on the delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing
himself to be a holder of Senior Debt (or a trustee therefor) to establish that
such notice has been given by a holder of Senior Debt (or a trustee therefor).
In the event that the Trustee determines in good faith that further evidence is
required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of Senior Debt to
participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to this Article, the Trustee
may request such Person to furnish

71

evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee as to the amount of
Senior Debt held by such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to
participate in such payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the
rights of such Person under this Article, and if such evidence is not furnished,
the Trustee may defer any payment to such Person pending judicial determination
as to the right of such Person to receive such payment.

         SECTION 13.11.    Reliance on Judicial Order or Certificate of
Liquidating Agent.

         Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to
in this Article, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 6.1, and the
Holders of the Securities shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree
entered by any court of competent jurisdiction in which such Proceeding is
pending, or a certificate of the trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, liquidating
trustee, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors, agent or other Person
making such payment or distribution, delivered to the Trustee or to the Holders
of Securities, for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons entitled to
participate in such payment or distribution, the holders of the Senior Debt and
other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the
amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent
thereto or to this Article.

         SECTION 13.12.    Trustee Not Fiduciary for Holders of Senior Debt.

         The Trustee, in its capacity as trustee under this Indenture, shall not
be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of Senior Debt and shall not
be liable to any such holders if it shall in good faith mistakenly pay over or
distribute to Holders of Securities or to the Company or to any other Person
cash, property or securities to which any holders of Senior Debt shall be
entitled by virtue of this Article or otherwise.

         SECTION 13.13.    Rights of Trustee as Holder of Senior Debt;
Preservation of Trustee's Rights.

         The Trustee in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the
rights set forth in this Article with respect to any Senior Debt which may at
any time be held by it, to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Debt,
and nothing in this Indenture shall deprive the Trustee of any of its rights as
such holder.

         SECTION 13.14.    Article Applicable to Paying Agents.

         In case at any time any Paying Agent other than the Trustee shall have
been appointed by the Company and be then acting hereunder, the term "Trustee"
as used in this Article shall in such case (unless the context otherwise
requires) be construed as extending to and including such Paying Agent within
its meaning as fully for all intents and purposes as if such Paying Agent were
named in this Article in addition to or in place of the Trustee.

72

SECTION 13.15.    Certain Conversions or Exchanges Deemed Payment.

         For the purposes of this Article only, (a) the issuance and delivery of
junior securities upon conversion or exchange of Securities shall not be deemed
to constitute a payment or distribution on account of the principal of (or
premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest) on Securities
or on account of the purchase or other acquisition of Securities, and (b) the
payment, issuance or delivery of cash, property or securities (other than junior
securities) upon conversion or exchange of a Security shall be deemed to
constitute payment on account of the principal of such security. For the
purposes of this Section, the term "junior securities" means (i) shares of any
stock of any class of the Company and (ii) securities of the Company which are
subordinated in right of payment to all Senior Debt which may be outstanding at
the time of issuance or delivery of such securities to substantially the same
extent as, or to a greater extent than, the Securities are so subordinated as
provided in this Article.

* * * *

         This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of
which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts
shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be
duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and
attested, all as of the day and year first above written.

THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION

By:-----------------------------

Attest:

THE BANK OF NEW YORK
                                                as Trustee

By:-----------------------------

</EX-4.4.A>

<EX-10.3>
 5
 y74757exv10w3.txt
 EX-10.3: POST-RETIREMENT COMPENSATION PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

Exhibit 10.3

THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION

Post-Retirement Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
(As amended and restated effective May 21, 1996.)

         SECTION 1. Plan. This plan is the Chase Manhattan Corporation
Post-Retirement Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.

         SECTION 2. Definitions. For purposes of the Plan, the following terms
shall have the meanings specified below:

         "Administrator" shall mean the person appointed by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Corporation to administer the Plan.

         "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation.

         "Common Stock" shall mean the shares of common stock, par value $1 per
share, of the Corporation.

         "Corporation" shall mean The Chase Manhattan Corporation, a Delaware
corporation.

         "Director" shall mean a person serving as a director of the
Corporation.

         "Fair Market Value" shall mean the mean between the high and low
selling prices of Common Stock on the date as of which such value is being
determined.

         "Outside Director" shall mean any Director of the Corporation who has
never been an employee or officer of the Corporation or a Subsidiary.

         "Participant" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
3.

         "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation which at the time qualifies as
a subsidiary of the Corporation under the definition of "subsidiary corporation"
in Section 425(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as the same may be
amended from time to time.

         "Unit" shall mean a unit which is equal in value to the Fair Market
Value of a share of Common Stock.

         SECTION 3. Participants. Effective as of May 21, 1996, the term
"Participant" shall be limited to those Outside Directors who were participating
in the Plan and on such date, the Plan shall be frozen, and no further amounts
shall accrue in respect of any Participant, except as set forth in Section 4(b).

1

SECTION 4. Compensation. (a) Commencing upon a Participant's
retirement, resignation or removal from service as a Director on the Board, or
any failure of a Participant to be reelected as a Director after accepting a
nomination for election, in each case (i) after attaining the age of 70 (or such
other age as may be established from time to time by the Board as the retirement
age), (ii) with the consent of the Board or (iii) because of disability or
health reasons, the Corporation shall pay on May 1 of each year (or on such
other date or dates as the Administrator shall so designate in his sole
discretion) during the Participant's lifetime to each Participant an amount
equal to the dollar value of the annual retainer fee (such dollar value to be
determined by the Administrator from time to time) payable to Directors of the
Corporation at the date the Participant retires, resigns, or is removed from
service as a Director or is not reelected as a Director after accepting a
nomination for election, which amount shall be not less than $25,000 for
Participants ceasing to serve the Corporation in the capacity of Director on or
after January 1, 1990; provided, however, such amount shall be reduced for each
Participant with fewer than ten years of service to the Board as an Outside
Director by ten percent for each year, or part thereof, less than ten years of
service. In calculating the number of years a Participant has served on the
Board, all years served prior to the effectiveness of this Plan and for
Participants who were Directors of Manufacturers Hanover Corporation or who were
Directors of The Chase Manhattan Corporation at the time of its merger with
Chemical Banking Corporation, all years such Participants had served as
directors of such corporation prior to becoming Directors of the Corporation.
shall be included in the calculation.

         (b) For purposes of determining the amount payable hereunder to any
Participant retiring, resigning or being removed on or after May 20, 1996, the
following rules shall apply:

                  (i) any Participant retiring, resigning or being removed on
May 20, 1996, shall be permitted to elect to (A) receive the compensation set
forth in Section 4(a), except that the age specified in Section 4(a) (i) shall
be 65 and such Participant shall be deemed to have performed ten years of
service to the Board as an Outside Director (regardless of his or her actual
years of service); or (B) be treated in the manner set forth in Section 4(b)
(ii) below;

                  (ii) any Participant retiring, resigning, being removed or
otherwise terminating service as an Outside Director after May 20, 1996 shall,
in lieu of the compensation payable under this Section 4(a), receive an amount
determined pursuant to Section 5; provided that in determining the amount to be
initially credited to the Participant's account under Section 5, each
Participant shall be considered to have performed ten years of service to the
Board as an Outside Director (regardless of his or her actual years of service).

         SECTION 5. Deferred Account. (a) The compensation otherwise payable
under Section 4(a) to Participants described in Section 4(b) (ii) or electing to
be so treated under the provisions of Section 4(b) (i) shall be converted to a
present value dollar amount, based on actuarial assumptions satisfactory to the
Administrator, and such dollar amount converted into a number of Units by
dividing such dollar amount by

2

the average of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock during the period
commencing July 18, 1996 and ending August 5, 1996, inclusive.

      (b) The amount so determined pursuant to Section 5(a) shall be treated as
deferred in accordance with Appendix A hereto.

         SECTION 6. Nontransferability. No amount due to any Participant shall
be assignable or transferable by a Participant, except by will or the laws of
descent and distribution, and no right or interest of any Participant shall be
subject to any lien, obligation or liability. Any attempted assignment or
alienation of payments hereunder shall be void and of no force or effect.

         SECTION 7. Amendment. The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the
Plan or any portion hereof at any time; provided, however, no right under the
Plan of any Participant (including the right to receive future compensation in
specified amounts) immediately prior to any amendment of the Plan shall in any
way be amended, modified, suspended or terminated without such Participant's
prior written consent.

         SECTION 8. Withholding. The Corporation shall have the right to deduct
from any and all amounts paid to any Participant under this Plan any taxes
required by law to be withheld therefrom.

         SECTION 9. Administration. The Plan shall be administered by the
Administrator who shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
carrying out the Plan, and who shall interpret, construe and implement the
provisions of the Plan.

         SECTION 10. Participant's Rights Unsecured. The right of any
Participant to receive future payments under the provisions of the Plan shall be
an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Corporation.

         SECTION 11. Effective Date. This Plan became effective on May 13, 1988.

3

Appendix A

SECTION A1. Participants' Account Balances. The Corporation shall maintain an
individual book account under the Plan for each Participant having a deferred
account. Each Participant shall initially have credited to his or her account
the number of Units calculated in respect of such Participant pursuant to
Section 5 hereof. Such account shall continue to be expressed in Units until an
Outside Director has ceased to render services to the Corporation as an Outside
Director. Any dividends paid on Common Stock shall be credited to a
Participant's account in respect of each Unit and deemed to be reinvested in
additional Units based on the Fair Market Value of Common Stock on the dividend
payment date. In addition, the number of Units allocated to a Participant's
account shall be adjusted to reflect stock dividends, splits and
reclassifications, and similar transactions affecting the value of Common Stock.
At the time that the Participant's services as an Outside Director cease,
subject to Section 5 hereof, the account balance will, until such time as it is
paid to the Participant in accordance with the Participant's payment elections,
be allocated among the hypothetical investments permitted under the Plan for
Participants who have ceased to render service as an Outside Director, as such
allocation may be elected by the Participant.

 SECTION A2. Payment Elections. (a) General Provisions. In connection with the
commencement of participation in this Plan, each Participant shall make an
election (the "Payment Election") concerning the timing and form of distribution
of the amounts credited to his or her Plan account. Any payment from the Plan
shall commence following termination of the Participant's services to the
Corporation as an Outside Director, but in no event prior to one year after
receipt by the Corporation of the Outside Director's initial Payment Election.
The forms of benefit available under the Plan shall be a lump sum payment or
quarterly, semi-annual or annual installments over a period not to exceed 15
years from the earliest date the director may commence receiving payments
hereunder.

        (b) Special Rules. (i) Subsequent Payment Elections may be made by a
Participant, which shall supersede the initial Payment Election, but any such
subsequent Payment Election shall not be valid unless it is made prior to May of
the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which payments to the Director
hereunder are otherwise due to commence.

        (ii) If a Participant has elected to receive installment payments of the
amount in his or her account, the Participant may, at the Participant's option,
elect to allocate the account, on or after the date on which he or she ceases to
perform services as an Outside Director, among such forms of hypothetical
investment as may be made available hereunder by the Administrator with
reference to the hypothetical investments made available under the Deferred
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Chase Manhattan Corporation
(the "Deferred Compensation Plan"). Reallocations may be made among hypothetical
investments on the same basis as is permitted under the Deferred Compensation
Plan.

4

SECTION A3. Payments to a Deceased Participant's Estate. (a) In the event of a
Participant's death before the balance of his or her account is fully paid,
payment of the balance of the Participant's account shall then be made to his or
her estate in accordance with the manner selected by the Participant prior to
death, which manner shall provide that: (i) payment shall be made to the
Participant's estate in the same manner as provided with respect to the payments
to the Participant or (ii) the balance of the Participant's account shall be
determined as soon as practicable following his or her death and this amount
shall be paid in a single payment to the Participant's estate as soon as
reasonably practicable thereafter. In the event no election has been made,
payment shall be made in accordance with clause (ii) of the preceding sentence.

        (b) In the event of a Participant's death before the balance of his or
her account is fully paid to the estate in installments, the Administrator may,
upon consideration of the application of the duly appointed administrator or
executor of the Participant's estate, direct that the balance of the
Participant's account be paid to the estate in a single payment. The payment
shall be made at the time specified by the Administrator.

5

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 6
 y74757exv10w4.htm
 EX-10.4: 2005 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM

EX-10.4 

Exhibit 10.4 

JPMORGAN CHASE   CO. 
2005 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
Restated Effective as of December 31, 2008 

PREAMBLE 

Effective January 1, 2005, JPMorgan Chase   Co ( Company ) established the JPMorgan Chase  
Co. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan ( Plan ). The purpose of the Plan is to provide Participants
with an opportunity to defer payment of a portion their compensation as a means of saving for their
retirement or other purposes.

The Plan applies to deferrals or vesting of deferrals that occurred on or after January 1,
2005. Pursuant to final and proposed Treasury Regulations and Internal Revenue Service Notice
2005-1 promulgated under Section 409A of the Code, the Plan has been interpreted and operated in
good faith compliance with Section 409A through December 31, 2008. Effective December 31, 2008,
this Plan has been amended to reflect changes in tax laws as mandated by Section 409A of the Code.
The Plan, dated January 1, 2005 and employee communications through December 31, 2008 shall
constitute the plan for the interim period of good faith compliance. All sections of the Plan shall
be interpreted in such a manner as to comply with Section 409A

At all times, this Plan is entirely unfunded, both for tax purposes and for purposes of Title
I of ERISA. This Plan is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing non-qualified deferred
compensation for a select group of eligible management and highly compensated employees and is not
a qualified plan within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Code. Further, the Plan is not
subject to any of the ERISA provisions regarding participation, vesting, funding or fiduciary
responsibility.

Vested amounts deferred under the JPMorgan Chase Deferred Compensation Program prior to
January 1, 2005 (  Prior Program ), as well as investment experience thereon, are separately
accounted for and remain subject to the terms and conditions of that Program as in effect on that
date. No change to the operations or terms of the Program occurred after October 3, 2004 (other
than with respect to Investment Options to be offered in calendar year 2006). The Prior Program
will not comply with Section 409A of the Code, unless there is a material modification of such
Program

ARTICLE l   DEFINITIONS  

When the context so indicates, the singular or the plural number and the masculine or feminine
gender shall be deemed to include the other, the terms  he,   his,  and  him  shall refer to a
Participant or a Beneficiary of a Participant, as the case may be, unless the context otherwise
requires, the capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:

1 

1.1 
       
       Account   means the bookkeeping account established by the Company with respect to a
Participant under Article IV of the Plan. Such Account shall be credited with Deferred
Amounts, including investment experience thereon, in accordance with the Participant s
Deferral Election and any investment experience from Deemed Investments. Within an Account,
each Deferred Amount, including investment experience, shall be separately accounted for; and
each Deferred Amount shall be subject to separate Distribution Elections. 

1.2 
       
       Annual Installments   shall mean an amount payable annually on a Distribution Date or
Initial Distribution Date based on value of the Account as of the Valuation Date. The amount
of each installment shall be calculated by multiplying such Account balance by a fraction the
numerator is 1 and denominator is the remaining installments. Each installment shall be a
separate payment for purposes of the Treasury Regulations issued pursuant to Section 409A of
the Code. 

1.3 
       
       Administrator   means the individual holding the title  Compensation and Benefits Executive 
of the Company or such other individual designated by the Committee, who shall be responsible
for those functions assigned to him under the Plan;  provided  that the term
 Administrator  shall mean the Committee with respect to any discretionary act hereunder which
affects any person subject to Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. 

1.4 
       
       Affiliate   means any corporation that is included in a controlled group of corporations
(within the meaning of Section 414(b)of the Code). This would include the Company, any trade
or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Company (within the
meaning of Section 414(c) of the Code), any organization that is part of the same affiliated
service group (within the meaning of Section 414(m) of the Code) as the Company and any other
entity required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to the Treasury Regulations under
Section 414(o) of the Code; provided that for this purpose, the Plan shall retain the 80%
benchmark in defining an Affiliate. 

1.5 
       
       Allocation/Transfer Election   means an election by a Participant in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the Plan as to the allocation, reallocation or the transfer of the
Participant s future deferrals and/or existing Account balances among the Investment Options. 

1.6 
       
       Allocation/Transfer Election Form   means such form or other designated means by which the
Participant makes an Allocation Election. Such  other designated means  may include, but
not be limited to, interactive voice response, internet, intranet and other electronic means. 

1.7 
       
       Bank   means JPMorgan Chase Bank National Association. 

2 

1.8 
       
       Beneficiary  or  Beneficiaries   means, with respect to a Participant, any natural person(s),
estate or trust(s) designated by the Participant on the form provided by the Administrator to
receive the benefits specified under the Plan in the event of the Participant s death. The Participant s estate shall be the Beneficiary if: (i)
the Participant has not designated any natural person(s) or trust(s) as Beneficiary, or (ii)
all designated Beneficiaries have predeceased the Participant. Designations made under the
Program or under Bank One Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan shall apply to amounts
deferred under the Plan until a new designation is filed. 

1.9 
       
       Board   shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company;  provided  that any action
taken by a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors within the scope of authority
delegated to it by the Board shall be considered an action of the Board of Directors for the
purpose of this Plan. 

1.10 
       
       Bonus   means the annual incentive compensation payable in the form of an annual cash bonus
pursuant to a calendar year performance program, including any Performance-Based Bonus but
before reduction for taxes and any other amounts as the Administrator may specify. 

1.11 
       
       Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time, as
well as Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. 

1.12 
       
       Commissions   means commissions and production overrides earned by a Participant for
services rendered, but before reduction for (i) taxes, (ii) any before-tax contributions made
on the Participant s behalf under any tax-qualified employee benefit plans established by the
Company and (iii) any amount not included in the Participant s income pursuant to Section
125, 129, or 132 of the Code. Base salary shall be considered part of  Commissions  for these
purpose, except that it shall include base salary earned for the month December. 

1.13 
       
       Committee   means the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board. 

1.14 
       
       Deemed Investment   or   Deemed Invested   means the notional conversion of the balance held in
a Participant s Account into shares or units of the Investment Options that are used as
measuring devices for determining the value of a Participant s Account. 

1.15 
       
       Deferral Election   means an election by a Participant to defer a portion of the
Participant s Commissions, Bonus and/or Other Compensation in accordance with Article III of
the Plan. 

1.16 
       
       Deferral Election Form   means such form or other designated means by which a Participant
elects the amount of Commissions, Bonus and/or Other Compensation to defer (in dollar amount
or percentage). Such  other designated means  may include, but not be limited to, an offer
letter, interactive voice response, internet, intranet, and other electronic means. 

3 

1.17 
       
       Deferred Amounts   means, with respect to a Participant, the Commissions, Bonus and Other
Compensation amounts that the Participant has elected to defer under the Plan and includes
investment experience following the date of deferral. 

1.18 
       
       Distribution Election   means elections by the Participant made at the same time as his/her
Deferral Election (i) as to the form of payment of the Deferred Amount (including investment
experience thereon) subject to the Deferral Election and (ii) date(s) when such payments shall
commence. 

1.19 
       
       Distribution Election Form   means such form or other designated means by which a Participant
makes a Distribution Election. Such other  designated means  may include, but not be limited
to, an offer letter, interactive voice response, internet, intranet, and other electronic
means. 

1.20 
       
       DSIB   means the Deferred Supplemental Income Benefit Investment Option, which was only
available for Deferred Amounts attributable to deferrals credited to such Deemed Investment in
January 2005. See Appendix B for a full description of this Deemed Investment. 

1.21 
       
       Distribution Date   means any time during the calendar year (i) for which a Participant
elected a specified year for a distribution or (ii) the calendar year following the
Initial Distribution Date. 

1.22 
       
       Eligible Employee   means an Employee who is designated by the Administrator as eligible to
participate in the Plan in accordance with Section II hereof, provided that a rehired Employee
who was a Participant shall not become Eligible Employee for purposes of 30 day rule set forth
in Section 3.1 until 24 months have elapsed. 

1.23 
       
       Employee   means an individual whose employment classification is that of a regular full-time
employee and who is on a United States payroll of a Participating Company. 

1.24 
       
       ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as it may be amended from
time to time, as well as Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. 

1.25 
       
       FICA Amount   means Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax imposed under Section 3101,
Section 3121(a) and Section 3121(v)(2) of the Code, where applicable, on Deferred Amounts. 

1.26 
       
       Full Career Eligibility   means a Separation from Service that occurs on or after the
completion of 15 years of recognized service with the Company as set forth in the Company s
human resource data basis relating to service related policies. 

1.27 
       
       Initial Distribution Date   means the calendar year immediately following the calendar year
in which a Separation from Service occurs with respect to a Participant who: 

4 

did not made a Distribution Election with respect to a Deferred Amount, 

elected a lump sum or Installment following Separation from Service with
respect to a Deferred Amount, 

is subject to automatic distribution rules of Section 7.7(a) with respect to a
Deferred Amount, including investment experience, or 

made a Distribution Election of a specific year that immediately precedes the
calendar year of the Participant s Separation from Service. 

Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, any distribution hereunder
resulting from a Separation from Service with respect to a Specified Employee shall occur on
the later of the Initial Distribution Date or six months from date of his/her Separation from
Service.

1.28 
       
       Investment Options   mean the hypothetical securities or other investments as may be
provided, from time to time, under the Plan, from which a Participant may select to be used as
measuring devices to determine the Deemed Investment earnings or losses of the Participant s
Account. A Participant shall have no real or beneficial ownership in the security or other
investment represented by the Investment Options. 

1.29 
       
       Other Compensation   means compensation to which an Employee has a legal binding right within
the meaning Section 409A of the Code and which is payable in a future calendar year. Other
Compensation may include awards of restricted stock units and dividends thereon that are not
subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture as defined by Section 409A of the Code. It may
also include Deferral Elections and Distribution Elections set forth in letters offering
employment;  provided  that the Employee does not have a legally binding right to such
amounts prior to accepting such offer of employment. 

1.30 
       
       Participant   means an Eligible Employee who has elected to make Commission and/or Bonus
deferrals in accordance with the Plan. 

1.31 
       
       Participating Employer   means the Company and any Affiliate that has been authorized by the
Administrator to have its Employees eligible to participate in the Plan. 

1.32 
       
       Performance-Based Bonus   means any performance-based Bonus that meets the requirements of
Section 409A of the Code with respect to performance-based compensation based on services
performed over a period of at least twelve months. 

5 

1.33 
       
       Plan   means this JPMorgan Chase   Co. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan as documented herein
and as may be amended from time to time hereafter. In employee communications, it is referred to as the Voluntary Bonus Deferral Plan and/or
Voluntary Compensation Deferral Plan. 

1.34 
       
       Plan Year   means the twelve-month period beginning each January 1 and ending each December
31. 

1.35 
       
       Prior Program   means the JPMorgan Chase Deferred Compensation Program as in effect through
December 31, 2004 with respect to amounts deferred and vested on or prior to December 31,
2004. 

1.36 
       
       Separation from Service   means a termination of employment with the Company or an Affiliate
as set forth in Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h), using the 20% bench mark set forth therein.
For purposes of a good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code and Notice 2005-1 and
period through December 31, 2008, it means a termination of employment as set forth on the
books and records of the Company. 

1.37 
       
       Specified Employee   means a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A (a)(2)(B)(i) of
the Code. For this purpose and all other plans of deferred compensation, the specified
employee identification date for determining a whether a Participant is a Specified Employee
shall be each December 31st and W-2 compensation for that year, as permitted by Treasury
Regulation 1.409A-1(i)(2), shall be used. An individual who is a Specified Employee on the
specified identification date shall be considered to be in such status from the April 1
immediately following the identification date up to and including the next March
31 s  provided that a non-resident alien employee of an Affiliate shall not be
included .  The Plan determines specified employees based on the top paid fifty employees. 

1.38 
       
       2005 Deferred Amount   means, for purposes of Article VI, any vested amount credited to a
Participant s Account with respect to Bonus, Commissions and Other Compensation deferred
during calendar year 2005, including investment experience thereon;  provided  that the
investment experience for any 2005 Deferred Amount treated as if invested in DSIB and the
Private Equity Investment Options shall be the rate of return of the Short-Term Investment
Option and the investment experience for the Multi-Strategy Investment Option shall be
credited through October 31, 2005. 

1.39 
       
       Unforeseeable Emergency   means a severe financial hardship of the Participant resulting from
an illness or accident of the Participant or beneficiary, the Participant s spouse, or the
Participant s dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Cole); loss of the Participant s
property due to casualty; or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances
arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant, as determined under
Section 409A. 

6 

1.40 
       
       Valuation Date   means any date specified by the Administrator with respect to valuing an
Account of a Participant for purposes of a distribution during that month, which shall be the fifth business day in which a distribution occurs; provided that if
a dividend has been declared on the common stock of the Company during a month in which a
distribution shall occur, the Valuation Date shall be the dividend record date plus one day. 

7 

ARTICLE II PARTICIPATION  

2.1   Eligibility  . An Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan for any
Plan Year only if such Employee is

designated by the Administrator or his delegatee as an officer and/or other
key employee of a Participating Company, and 

notified in writing by the Administrator or his delegatee that he or she is
eligible to participate in the Plan. 

2.2   Participant   .  An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant on the last
business day of any enrollment period (or other period specified by Article III) if he or she makes
a Deferral Election in accordance with Article III. With respect to amounts not subject to an
annual enrollment period, he or she shall become a Participant when the Deferral Election is
irrevocable.

ARTICLE III DEFERRAL AND DISTRIBUTION ELECTIONS  

3.1   Timing of Deferral  

(a)   General Rule  . An Eligible Employee for any Plan Year may make a Deferral
Election by completing and submitting a Deferral Election Form during the annual enrollment period
established by the Administrator with respect to Bonuses and, subject to an election being made
available, Commissions;  provided  that in the case of the first Plan Year in which an
Employee becomes an Eligible Employee in accordance with Article II, such Deferral Election may be
made with respect to services to be performed subsequent to the date of the Deferral Election
within thirty (30) days after the Employee becomes an Eligible Employee;  provided  further
that with respect to Other Compensation, the Deferral Election Form shall be submitted and returned
in accordance with the period established by the Administrator and as provided in Section 3.1 (d)
below. See definition

(b)   Commission Deferrals  . Subject to an election being made available, with
respect to Commissions to be earned in any Plan Year, a Participant may make a Deferral Election
during the enrollment period which shall occur on or before December 31 st  of the year
prior to the Plan Year to which the Deferral Election relates.

(c)   Bonus Deferrals  . A Participant may elect to defer a portion of any Bonus
amounts to be earned in a performance year by completing and submitting a Deferral Election Form
during an annual enrollment period which shall occur no later than December 31 st  prior
to the calendar year to which the Deferral Election relates ; provided  that if the
Administrator determines that a Bonus is a Performance Based Bonus, a Participant may elect to
defer a portion of any Performance-Based Bonus by making a Deferral Election during the enrollment
period which shall occur at least six months prior to the end of the performance period to which
such Performance-Based Bonus relates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Bonus
earned in the 2004 performance year, a Participant may be permitted to make a later enrollment
election in good faith reliance on Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1.

8 

(d)   Other Compensation Deferrals  . The Plan Administrator in his discretion may
permit an Eligible Employee who has been awarded Other Compensation to make an election to defer
such Other Compensation which election shall occur no later than the 30th day after the Eligible
Employee obtains the legally binding right to the Other Compensation;  provided  that such
election shall be made at least 12 months in advance of the earliest date at which a substantial
risk of forfeiture within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code could lapse;  provided 
further that prior to having a legally binding right to Other Compensation, a Participant may
elect to defer all or a portion of such amount. With respect to Other Compensation awarded in the
form of restricted stock units for performance year 2004, Eligible Employees were permitted to make
an election on or before March 15, 2005 to defer either the dividend equivalents associated with
such units or the units themselves in good faith reliance on Internal Revenue Service Notice
2005-1.

3.2   Amount of Deferrals  .

(a)   Commissions   .  Subject to an election being made available, a Participant may
elect to defer a percentage of his/her Commissions with respect to the Plan Year to which the
Deferral Election relates in whole percentages only. The Administrator may specify the maximum and
minimum percentage or amount that the Participant may defer with respect to a Plan Year, which may
be different as among Participants.

(b)   Bonus   .  A Participant may elect to defer a (i) percentage (in whole percentages
only), (ii) a dollar amount or (iii) such combination of a dollar amount and percentage (as the
Administrator may specify) of the Participant s Bonus with respect to the calendar year to which
the Deferral Election relates. The Administrator may specify a minimum amount or maximum amount
that a Participant may defer for any Plan Year;  provided  that if the percentage (or
combination dollar amount and percentage elected) would result in a deferral of (i)an amount less
than the minimum amount of $5000, the lesser of the specified minimum or 100% of the Bonus will be
deferred or (ii) an amount more than the maximum annual deferral amount of $1 million, the Deferral
Election shall not be effective for the Plan Year to the extent of the excess over the maximum
annual amount;  provided , further, that with respect to a newly Eligible Employee, any
portion of a Bonus attributable to services rendered after date of eligibility shall be the maximum
amount deferral hereunder. See Appendices A and C for the maximum and minimums applicable to
2005 and 2006.

(c)   Other Compensation  . A Participant may elect to defer a percentage or dollar
amount of his/her Other Compensation to which the Deferral Election relates. The Administrator may
specify the minimum and maximum dollar amount that a Participant may defer.

(d)   Adjustment for Taxes  . In the event that a Participant s Deferral Election with
respect to any compensations results in insufficient non-deferred compensation from which the
Company may withhold taxes FICA and other payroll taxes , the Participant s Deferral Election shall
be reduced by the amount necessary to allow the Company to satisfy such withholding requirements.

9 

(e)   Maximum Deferral  . The Administrator may specify an aggregate maximum amount that
can be deferred by any Participant under the Plan. Commencing with calendar/performance year 2006,
the maximum aggregate Deferred Amounts of any Participant shall be $10 million. A Participant s
Deferral Election for any calendar year shall be reduced, when it combined with other previous
Deferred Amounts, exceeds $10 million. See Sections 3.2(b) and (c) regarding reductions in a
Deferred Amount when an annual maximum is exceeded.

3.3   Distribution Elections  

(a)   Form of Payment  . At the same time that a Participant makes a Deferral Election,
the Participant may make a Distribution Election on a Distribution Election Form as to the form of
payment. Such Participant may elect to receive the Deferred Amount (including investment
experience) subject to the Deferral Election either in a lump sum or in up to 15 Annual
Installments.

(b)   Date of Distribution  . At same time that a Participant makes a Deferral
Election, the Participant may make a Distribution Election on a Distribution Election Form as to
when the Deferred Amount (including investment experience) subject to the Deferral Election is to
be distributed. Such Participant may elect to commence receiving such amount either following a
Separation from Service and/or in a specific year. If a specific year is elected, such year shall
not be (i) earlier than the second anniversary following the date that the Deferred Amount is
credited to the Participant s Account assuming the Participant is an Employee on such date and (ii)
with respect to the DSIB Investment Option, later than the than the Participant s sixty-five
birthday, provided the Participant has a Separation from Service. See Appendix B.

(c)   Changes in Form and Date of Distribution  . In his discretion, the Administrator
may permit a particular Participant to change the form and time of distribution in accordance with
Section 409A (a)(4) of the Code and the final Treasury Regulations issued thereunder.

(d)   Special Limitations On Distributions of Certain Investment Options  .
Notwithstanding Sections 3.3 (a) and (b) or any Distribution Election to the contrary, the
following applies:

(i) Deferred Amounts treated as invested in the DSIB Investment Option shall be paid in 15
equal annual installments and shall only be distributed following a Separation from Service. If a
Participant has selected a specific year to commence distribution of the DSIB Investment Option
and is employed on such date by the Company or one of its Affiliates, then such amounts shall be
payable following a Separation from Service on the Initial Distribution Date. If Participant has
incurred a Separation from Service and has selected a date of distribution beyond his/her
sixty-fifth birthday, the election shall be disregarded; and the first installment shall commence
on the Initial Distribution Date following the Participant s sixty fifth birthday. See Appendices
B and D.

10 

(ii) Any investment experience allocated to a Participant  Account with respect to a Deemed
Investment in the Private Equity Investment Option shall be separately tracked and accounted for,
and a Participant may elect to have the amount of
such investment experience treated as if invested in any Investment Option (other than Private
Equity). Such amount (including subsequent investment experience from other Investment Options)
attributable to Private Equity investment experience, irrespective of any other distribution
election shall be distributed to a Participant in a lump sum in calendar year 2012. If there is
any balance in a Participant s Account associated with the Deemed Investment in the Private Equity
Investment Option as of the Distribution Date, then such balance shall be increased or decreased
using the average rate of return with respect to the Private Equity Investment Option up to the
Distribution Date.

(e)   Failure to Make A Distribution Election  . Unless Section 3.3 (c) applies, if a
Participant fails to make a Distribution Election with respect to any Deferred Amount for a
particular Plan Year, the Participant shall receive the Participant s Account balance attributable
to that Deferred Amount in a lump sum on the Initial Distribution Date applicable to that
Participant; except as provided above with respect to Deferred Amounts treated as invested in DSIB
and Private Equity Investment Option.

3.4   Effective Date and Irrevocability  . Unless the Administrator otherwise determines
or Section 3.2 applies with respect to maximum deferrals, a Deferral Election and Distribution
Election shall become effective upon the last business day of the enrollment period with respect to
the Plan Year to which they relate, or in the case of Other Compensation as of the date that such
Deferral and Distribution Election are received by the Administrator. With respect to Bonus and
Commissions, a Deferral Election shall be effective for the Plan Year to which it relates and shall
expire at the end of such Plan Year. A Deferral Election and Distribution Election shall be
irrevocable when they becomes effective and may not be modified, except in the case of the 2005
Deferred Amount as provided in Article VI, in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency as provided
in Article VII or a subsequent election as provided in Section 3.3(c).

3.5   Mandatory Deferrals  . Nothing in this Plan should be construed from prohibiting
the Company from imposing a mandatory deferral; provided that such deferral and distribution
thereof complies with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.

ARTICLE IV PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS  

The Company shall establish an Account with respect to each Participant. The Company shall credit
a Participant s Deferred Amounts to his/her Account in accordance with the Participant s Deferral
Election Form. The Company shall credit the Deferred Amounts to the Participant s Account as of
the date on which the amounts would have been paid by the Company or other such other date as may
be specified with respect Other Compensation, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator.
Within an Account, each Deferred Amount, including investment experience shall be separately
accounted for; and each Deferred Amount shall be subject to separate Distribution Elections.

11 

ARTICLE V INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS  

5.1   Allocation/Transfer Election  . A Participant shall elect Investment Options to be
used to determine the value of a Participant s Account. A Participant shall use the
Allocation/Transfer Election to specify his/her allocations/transfers among the Investment Options.
In the event that the Participant fails to make an Allocation/Transfer Election with respect to a
Deferred Amount or with respect to a credit from the Private Equity Investment while a Participant
is employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, such Deferred Amount shall be automatically
treated as allocated or transferred to the Short-Term Investment Option, unless the Administrator
otherwise directs. See Appendices A and C for certain restrictions.

5. 2   Continuation of Investment Election  . With respect to Commissions, an
Allocation/Transfer Election submitted by a Participant during the annual enrollment shall be a
continuing Allocation Election with respect to the allocation of future Deferred Amounts during
the Plan Year until a new Allocation/Transfer Election is submitted by the Participant. In the
event that the Participant fails to make an Allocation/Transfer Election with respect to a Deferred
Amount, it shall be automatically treated as allocated or transferred to the Short-Term Investment
Option, unless the Administrator otherwise directs.

5.3   Reallocation/Transfer Among Investment Options  . A Participant may reallocate or
transfer his Account balances among the Investment Options by submitting a new Allocation/Transfer
Election in such form and at such time or times as may be specified by the Administrator. The
Administrator may, in his sole and absolute discretion, restrict transfer, allocation or
reallocation by Participants into or out of specified Investment Options or specify minimum or
maximum amounts that may be allocated or transferred by Participants. See Appendices A and C for
the restrictions applicable to the 2005 and 2006.

5.4   Changes in Investment Options  . The Administrator, in his sole and absolute
discretion, shall be permitted to add or remove Investment Options; provided that any such addition
or removal of Investment Options shall not be effective with respect to the investment experience
credited prior to the effective date of the change. In the event that the Administrator removes
or replaces an Investment Option, the Administrator may direct the transfer of balances previously
allocated to that Investment Option to other Investment Options.

5.5   DSIB Investment Option.   . Effective as of February 1, 2005, DSIB was no longer
an Investment Option under the Plan. See Appendix B for a full description of the DSIB Investment
Option. Deferred Amounts treated as invested in the DSIB Investment Option shall earn the rate of
return specified by the Administrator for that year and future years as may be specified by the
Administrator. DSIB rate of return shall not be applicable if employment of a Participant
terminates with less than five years of service, or before age 65 with respect to deferrals made
within 12 month of termination of employment. In such circumstances, that portion of the Account
shall receive, in lieu of the DSIB rate, the rate provided by the Stable Value Investment Option
for calendar year 2005 and thereafter the rate provided by the Short-Term Investment Option

12 

5.6   JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Investment Option   . As of the date that any Deferred
Amount is treated as invested in the JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Investment Option, the number of
hypothetical shares to be allocated to a Participant s Account shall be determined by using the New
York Stock Exchange Closing Price for that day if such credit, transfer, or allocation is received
prior to closing of the New York Stock Exchange. If the Exchange is closed, the next business
day s closing price shall be used. Dividend equivalents on such hypothetical shares allocated to
an Account shall be converted into additional shares on a similar basis.

5.7   Account Valuation  . As of a Valuation Date, a Participant s Account shall be
valued as the sum of the value of all Deemed Investments of the Account minus any withdrawals or
distributions from such Account. Investment experience with respect to each Investment Option will
be credited and debited to, or otherwise reflected in, the balance of such Account.

5.8   No Ownership  . A Participant s election of Investment Options as measuring devices
for determining the value of a Participant s Account does not represent actual ownership of, or any
ownership rights in or to, the investments to which the Investment Options refer, nor is the
Company or Bank, as applicable, in any way bound or directed to make actual investments
corresponding to Deemed Investments. A Participant s Allocation/Transfer Election shall be used
solely for purposes of determining the value of such Participant s Account.

5.9   Life Insurance  . In the event that, in its discretion, the Company or Bank, as
applicable, purchases an insurance policy or policies insuring the life of a Participant to allow
the Company or Bank to recover the cost of providing the benefits hereunder, neither the
Participant, Participant s Beneficiary, nor any other person shall have or acquire any rights
whatsoever in such policy or policies or in the proceeds therefrom, and the Participant shall
cooperate with the Company and Bank in the acquisition of such life insurance policy.

ARTICLE VI SPECIAL TRANSITION RULES  

6.1   Special Elections for 2005  . (a) With respect to the 2005 Deferred Amount, a
Participant was permitted to elect during a special election period in 2005 to receive his/her 2005
Deferred Amount on or before December 31, 2005. Elections to receive a partial distribution of the
2005 Deferred Amount were not permitted. By way of further clarification, the election shall not
apply to any vested deferral under the Prior Program. It shall only apply to amounts subject to
Section 409A of the Code.

(b) For Participants electing to receive their 2005 Deferred Amount, Accounts were valued as
of November 30, 2005.

(c) If a Participant retained his/her 2005 Deferred Amount in the Plan, then such
Participant, during the special enrollment period referred to in Section 6.1 , may make a
Distribution Election as described Section 3.3. Any Distribution Election made prior to the
special enrollment with respect to the 2005 Deferred Amount shall be null and void.

13 

6.2   Distribution Election For 2005, 2006 and 2007 Deferred Amounts  . Notwithstanding
any prior election, Participants who had not incurred a Separation from Service prior to November
23, 2007 were permitted to make a new distribution election applicable to Deferred
Amounts for calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007, provided that no amounts from such deferrals were
payable in 2007. The distribution election was only effective if the Participant remained employed
through December 31, 2007. If a Participant did not make a new election, then his/her prior
distribution elections remained in effect.

ARTICLE VII DISTRIBUTIONS  

7. 1   Distribution Events  . In accordance with Section 409A of the Code and the terms
of this Plan, distribution of Deferred Amounts, including investment experience, may not occur
earlier than the :

(a) date of Separation from Service of a Participant;

(b) death of the Participant;

(c) specific year elected by the Participant pursuant to a Distribution Election; or

(d) occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency.

14 

7.2   Form of Distribution  . Except with respect to Deferred Amounts treated as if
invested in the JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Investment Option, all distribution shall be in cash.
Distributions attributable to the JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Investment Option shall be
distributed in the form of JPMorgan Chase Common Stock and shall be based on the number of
hypothetical shares allocated to the Account. References herein to a lump sum mean cash and such
stock.

7.3   Distribution Upon Separation From Service  . (a) If a Participant has a Separation
from Service (for reasons other than death) and has satisfied the definition of Full Career
Eligibility as of the date of such Separation from Service, the Participant shall receive a
distribution of the Participant s Deferred Amounts in accordance with the Participant s applicable
Distribution Elections except as otherwise provided for in this Article VII and by Section 7.3(c).
( If a Participant failed to make a Distribution Election with respect to any Deferred Amount, it
shall be distributed as a lump sum on an Initial Distribution Date in accordance with Section
3.3(e).) Subject to the Distribution Election, distributions will commence on the Initial
Distribution Date or the Distribution Date, in either case as specified in the applicable election.
See Appendices A and C for prior rules.

(b) If a Participant has a Separation from (for reasons other than death) and has not
satisfied the definition of Full Career Eligibility, the Participant shall receive lump sum
distribution of his or her Account balance on the Initial Distribution Date.

(c) Notwithstanding Section 7.3(a), if the Participant s Account balance as of the Initial
Distribution Date immediately following the date of Separation from Service is less than $15,000,
the Participant s Account shall be distributed as a lump sum as of the Initial Distribution Date.

(d) See Appendices A and C for distributions on Separation From Service occurring on or
before January 1, 2008.

7. 4   Distribution Upon Death  . (a) Irrespective of any Distribution Election made, if a
Participant dies, the Plan shall distribute the balance of the Participant s Account to the
Participant s Beneficiary in a lump sum (other than for Private Equity and DSIB Investment
Options) on or before the later of the end of the calendar year in which the date of death
occurred or two half months after such date. Distribution of balances attributable to Private
Equity shall be paid to the Beneficiary in conformity with Section 3.3(d).

(b) In the event of the death of a Participant prior to the Participant s receipt of
installments from the DSIB Investment Option, then the Beneficiary shall receive survivor benefits
to the Beneficiary as provided pursuant to such Option. Such survivor benefits shall commence on
or before the later of the end of the calendar year in which the date of death occurred or two
half months after such date and subsequently on each annual Distribution Date following the initial
distribution of the survivor benefits. In the event of death after distribution of the benefits
under DSIB Investment Option have commenced, the Beneficiary shall receive any remaining
installment payments in accordance with the schedule applicable to the Participant. See Appendix B.

15 

7.5   Distribution on a Specific Year  . Subject to Section 7.1 and Section 7.6, a
Participant who has elected a specific year to receive a distribution of a Deferred Amount shall
receive such distribution during the calendar year elected.

7.6   Priority Rules.   If a Participant has elected a specific year(s) of distribution
and incurs a Separation from Service while there are remaining amounts to be distributed pursuant
to his/her Distribution Election, the Participant shall receive balance of the Deferred Amount in
a lump sum on the Initial Distribution Date irrespective of the election made under Section 7.5,
unless the Participants has satisfied the definition of Full Career Eligibility as of date of his
or her Separation from Service in which case he or she receive such payment in accordance with the
applicable Distribution Election.

7.7   Unforeseeable Emergency Distribution   .  Upon the Participant s request and the
submission of evidence of demonstrating an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Administrator may, in his
sole and absolute discretion, determine that a Participant has incurred an Unforeseeable Emergency.
If such a determination is made, the Administrator may cancel a Deferral Election for the balance
of the Plan Year and, taking into account the dollar value of such cancellation to the Participant,
shall authorize a distribution limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the
emergency need (which may include amounts necessary to pay any Federal, state, or local income
taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution). (For these purposes,
a distribution shall not be allowed to the extent that the hardship may be relieved through
reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, or by liquidation of the Participant s
assets (to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause a severe financial hardship).) Any
such distribution shall be made within 90 days immediately following the receipt of the request
from receipt of the Participant s requests.

7.8   Acceleration of Distributions  .

(a)   FICA Amount  . The Plan, at the discretion of Administrator, may permit the
acceleration of an amount equal to the (i) FICA Amount with respect to any Participant (ii) the
income tax at source on wages imposed under Section 3401 of the Code or the corresponding
withholding provisions of applicable state, local, or foreign tax laws as a result of the payment
of the FICA Amount, and (iii) the additional income tax at source on wages attributable to the
pyramiding Section 3401 wages and taxes. However, the total payment under this Section shall not
exceed the aggregate of the FICA Amount, and the income tax withholding related to such FICA
Amount.

(b)   Payments Upon Income Inclusion Under Section 409A  . The Plan, at the discretion
of Administrator, may permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of a payment to a Participant
under the Plan at any time the Plan or any arrangement that is aggregated with the Plan under
Treasury Regulations fails to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code with respect to
such Participant. Such payment shall not exceed the amount required to be included in income as a
result of the failure to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and Treasury
Regulations.

16 

(c)   Prohibition On Acceleration of Distributions  . Other than provided for in
Articles III and VII, the Plan shall not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any
payment under the Plan except as provided by the Code or Treasury Regulations.

7.9   Delaying Payment for Security laws violation  . If, in the reasonable judgment of
the Administrator distribution of a Deferred Amount would violate Federal securities laws or other
applicable laws, then such distribution shall be delayed to the date at which the Administrator
reasonably anticipates that the payment of the amount will not cause such violation. For this
purpose, the distribution of a Deferred Amount that would cause an inclusion in gross income or the
application of any penalty provision or other provision of the Code shall not be deemed a violation
of applicable laws.

17 

ARTICLE VIII LIABILITY AND FUNDING  

8.1   Unsecured Creditor  . The right of any Participant or Beneficiary to receive future
payments under the provisions of the Plan shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of
(i) the Bank if the Participating Company employing the Participant at the time that his/her
compensation is deferred was a bank or a bank subsidiary, or (ii) the Company, if the Participating
Company employing the Participant at the time his/her compensation is deferred was not a bank or a
bank subsidiary.

8.2   No Funding.   All benefits in respect of a Participant under this Plan shall be paid
directly from either the general funds of the Company or Bank, as applicable. No special or
separate fund shall be established and no other segregation of assets shall be made to assure
payment of any benefits hereunder. No Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right, title or
interest whatsoever in or to any investments which the Company or Bank, as applicable, may make to
aid the Company or Bank, as applicable, in meeting their obligation hereunder. Nothing contained
in this Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to
create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship, between the Company or Bank and any
Participant or Beneficiary.

ARTICLE IX AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION  

9.1   Amendment and Plan Termination  . The Administrator, Committee or the Board may at
any time modify, amend or terminate the Plan. Any such modification, amendment or termination
shall not cancel, reduce or otherwise adversely affect the amount of benefits of any Participant
accrued. Any termination shall conform to Section 409A of the Code.

9.2   Compliance with Law  . It is intended that this Plan comply with all provisions of
the Code and Treasury Regulations and rulings in effect from time to time regarding the permissible
deferral of compensation and taxes thereon, and it is understood that this Plan does so comply. It
shall be so interpreted to fullest extent permitted by law.

ARTICLE X ADMINISTRATION  

10.1   Administrato  r. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall be
administered by the Administrator who shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
carrying out the provisions of the Plan, who shall interpret, construe and implement the provisions
of the Plan, and whose determinations shall be conclusive and binding. In carrying out his
responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator may appoint such delegates as he/she deems
appropriate. Such appointment need not be in writing.

10.2   Decision Binding  . Any decision made or action taken by the Board, the Committee,
the Administrator or the Company, arising out of, or in connection with, the construction,
administration, interpretation and effect of the Plan shall be within their absolute discretion,
and will be conclusive and binding on all parties. Neither the Administrator nor a member of the
Board or the Committee shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of omission or
commission, by any other member or employee or by any agent to whom duties in connection with the
administration of the Plan have been delegated or, except in circumstances involving bad faith, for
anything done or omitted to be done in connection with this Plan.

18 

ARTICLE XI MISCELLANEOUS  

11.1   No Right to Assign  . Other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution, or
by appointing a Beneficiary, no right, title or interest of any kind in the Plan shall be
transferable or assignable by a Participant (or his Beneficiary) or be subject to alienation,
anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance, garnishment, attachment, levy, execution or other legal or
equitable process, nor be subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities or engagements, or torts of
any Participant or his Beneficiary. Any attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge,
garnish, attach or take any other action subject to legal or equitable process or encumber or
dispose of any interest in the Plan shall be void.

11.2   Successors  . The provisions of Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the
Company and its successors and assigns. The term successor as used herein shall include any
corporate or other business entity which shall, by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise,
acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company and successors of any
such corporation or other business entity.

11.3   No Employment Rights Conferred  . Nothing contained in the Plan shall (i) confer
upon any Participant any right with respect to continuation of employment with the Company or any
Affiliate, (ii) interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate a
Participant s employment at any time, or (iii) confer upon any Participant or other person any
claim or right to any distribution under the Plan except in accordance with its terms.

11.4   Location Of Participants  . Each Participant shall keep the Company informed of
his current address and the current address of his Beneficiary. The Company shall not be obligated
to search for any person.

11.5.   Statements; Errors in Statements or Distributions  . The Administrator will
furnish to a Participant, in such manner as the Administrator shall determine, a statement
reflecting the amounts credited to the Participant s Account and any transactions therein from time
to time.

11.6   Receipt and Release  . Distributions to any Participant or Beneficiary (or any
legal representative thereof) in accordance with the provisions of the Plan shall, to the extent
thereof, be in full satisfaction of all claims for Deferred Amounts and relating to any Account to
which the distributions relate against the Company or Bank, as applicable, and the Company or the
Bank, as applicable, may require such Participant or Beneficiary (or any legal representative
thereof), as a condition to such distributions, to execute a receipt and release to such effect.

11.7   Plan Expenses  . The value of a Participant s Account may be adjusted to reflect a
charge for a pro rata share of the fees and expenses (including, but not limited to, administrative
expenses, audit fees, trustee fees, trust administration fees and banking expenses) of the Company
in connection with the Plan.

11.8   Headings and Subheadings  . Headings and subheadings in the Plan are for
reference only, and if there is any conflict between such headings or subheadings and the text of
the Plan, the text shall control.

11.9   Invalid or Unenforceable Provisions  . If any provision of this Plan shall be held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions
hereof, and the Administrator may elect in it sole and absolute discretion to construe such invalid
or unenforceable
provisions in a manner that conforms to applicable law or as if such provisions, to the extent
invalid or unenforceable, had not been included.

19 

11.10   Governing Law  . This Plan and the Participant s participation in the Plan shall
be interpreted and applied in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to
conflicts of law principles, except to the extent superseded by applicable federal law.

20 

APPENDIX A 2005 PROGRAM RULES 

Deferral Limits for 2005 

A Participant is permitted a minimum deferral of $5000 and a maximum deferral of 90% of the Bonus
or $1 million. If an election were to result in a deferral of more than $1 million, the deferral
will be reduced accordingly and apportioned pro rata in accordance with the percentage elections
among the Investment Options.

A Participant was permitted a maximum deferral into each of the DSIB and Stable Value
Investment Options of $500,000. If an investment election results in a deferral to either of these
Investment Options of more than $500,000, any amounts in excess of such limits were directed to the
Short-Term Fixed Income Investment Option.

Limitations on transfers and reallocations. 

The following special provisions limit the reallocation or transfer of account balances in
JPMorgan Chase Common Stock, Stable Value, Deferred Supplemental Income Benefit (DSIB), Private
Equity, Multi-Strategy II and the International Equity Investment Options:

A Participant can reallocate or transfer any Account balance (other than that attributable
to Private Equity) from Investment Options into JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Investment
Option, but may not reallocate or transfer any portion of the Account out of JPMorgan Chase
Common Stock Investment Option.

A Participant may not reallocate or transfer any of Account balances
from other hypothetical Investment Options into the Stable Value, DSIB, and Private Equity
Investment Options.

No portion of the Participant s Account balances in the DSIB and Private Equity Investment
Options may be reallocated or transferred into another Investment Option.

A Participant may not reallocate or transfer any Account balances from other hypothetical
Investment Options into Multi-Strategy II Investment Option.

If a Participant reallocates and/or transfers balances into the International Large Cap
Index, International Large Cap Value, International Large Cap Core, or International Small
Cap Investment Options, then no subsequent amount (including any prior balance) can be
reallocated or transferred out of that particular Investment Option for 30 calendar days
from the date of the initial reallocation/transfer.

21 

APPENDIX B

PDF for DSIB

22 

APPENDIX C 2006 PROGRAM RULES 

Deferral Limits for 2006 and Years Thereafter 

A Participant is permitted a minimum deferral of $5000 and a maximum deferral of 90% of the Bonus
or $1 million. If an election were to result in a deferral of more than $1 million, the
deferral will be reduced accordingly and apportioned pro rata in accordance with the percentage
elections among the Investment Options.

Limitations on transfers and reallocations 

The following special provisions limit the reallocation or transfer of account balances in the
JPMorgan Chase Common Stock, Multi-Strategy II, and International Investment Options:

A Participant can reallocate or transfer any unrestricted Account balances from other
hypothetical investment Option Investments into the JPMorgan Chase Common Stock, but may not
reallocate or transfer any portion of the Account balance out of the JPMorgan Chase Common
Stock Investment Option;

A Participant may not reallocate or transfer any Account balances from other hypothetical
Investment Options into Multi-Strategy II.

If a Participant reallocates and/or transfers balances into the International Investment
Option, then no subsequent amount (including any prior balance) can be reallocated or
transferred out of that particular Investment Option for 30 calendar days from the date of
the initial reallocation/transfer.

Distribution Rules Effective for Separations from Service on or before December 31, 2007 

Distributions of amounts deferred in calendar years 2006 and 2007 with respect to Separations from
Service on or before December 31, 2007 shall be made in a lump sum on the applicable Initial
Distribution Date(s) unless the participant satisfied either the definition of Retirement or Job
Elimination. If one of those definitions was satisfied, then the Distribution Election was
honored.

Retirement   means a Separation from Service on or after January 1, 2006 and before January 1,
2008, after attaining age 55 with at least 15 years of cumulative service (as defined by JPMorgan
Chase Retirement Plan), of which at least the last five years of service preceding the Separation
from Service are continuous. Effective January 1, 2006, this definition was super- ceded by Full
Career Eligibility.

Job Elimination   means a Separation from Service pursuant to which the Participant receives the
payment of severance from the Company or an Affiliate. It also includes those Separations from
Service resulting from the sale of a business where employment of the Participant continues with
the purchaser of business even though there is no payment of severance. Effective January 1, 2008,
this definition is not applicable to distributions.

23 

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.7>
 7
 y74757exv10w7.htm
 EX-10.7: EXCESS RETIREMENT PLAN

EX-10.7 

Exhibit 10.7

JPMorgan Chase  Co. 
Excess Retirement Plan 
Restated and Amended as of December 31, 2008

PREAMBLE 

The purpose of this Plan is to provide an alternate means of paying benefits precluded by
operation of law to certain designated executives and employees participating in the JPMorgan Chase
Retirement Plan ( Retirement Plan ). The Plan is a non-qualified, unfunded deferred compensation
arrangement. It is not subject to Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code ( Code ). Further it
is, generally, not subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.

Effective December 31, 2004, liabilities accrued under the Bank One Corporation Supplemental
Personal Pension Account Plan ( Supplemental Plan ) were transferred to this Plan and became
subject to this Plan s rules, except as otherwise noted. Participants in the Supplemental Plan who
made valid distributions election prior to January 1, 2005 or prior to January 1, 2009 (if they had
not incurred a Separation from Service prior to January 1, 2009), with respect to their entire
Accrued Benefit that take effect on a Separation from Service shall have those election honored,
notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary.

The Plan has been interpreted and operated in good faith compliance with Section 409A and
Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 through December 31, 2008. The plan for the period of
January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008 consists of various employee communications, election and
distribution forms, internal procedures and the plan document prior to its amendment and
restatement to the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing documents and a good faith
interpretation Section 409A.

Effective December 31, 2008, this Plan has been amended to reflect changes in tax laws as
mandated by Section 409A of the Code. It shall be interpreted in such a manner as to comply
with Section 409A.

The terms and conditions of this Plan prior to its amendment, as well as the Supplemental
Plan, shall continue to apply to vested amounts accrued prior to January 1, 2005 with respect to
Participants whose employment terminated prior to January 1, 2005 and who accrued no further
benefits under the Plan on or after January 1, 2005 (other than interest credits on outstanding
balances).

1 

ARTICLE 1 
DEFINITIONS

The following are defined terms wherever they appear in the Plan:

1.1  Account   shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under Section 3.1.

1.2  Administrator   shall mean the individual appointed by Board who shall be responsible for
those functions assigned to him under the Plan.

1.3  Alternate Benefit  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under the Retirement Plan.

1.4  Bank   shall mean JPMorgan Chase Bank National Association.

1.5  Beneficiary  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under the Retirement Plan.

1.6  Board   shall mean the Board of Directors of the Bank or of the Corporation; provided
that any action taken by a duly authorized committee of the Board (including any action pursuant to
Article VII) within the scope of authority delegated to it by the Board shall be considered an
action of the Board for purposes of this Plan.

1.7  Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

1.8  Committee   shall mean the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board
or successor committee.

1.9  Compensation Limit   shall mean the dollar limitation imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of
the Code on the amount of Eligible Compensation taken into account in computing benefits under the
Retirement Plan. By way of clarification, it shall not have any application to the benefit accrued
by Grandfathered Morgan Participant under the Retirement Plan whose Retirement Benefit shall be
subject to a Compensation Limit of $150,000.

1.14  Corporation  shall mean JPMorgan Chase   Co.

1.15  Credit Balance  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under the Retirement Plan.

1.16  Deferred Compensation Program  shall mean the 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan of
JPMorgan Chase   Co.

1.17  Eligible Compensation  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto by the Retirement Plan;
provided that for purposes of this Plan, such Eligible Compensation in any calendar year shall be
not more than $1 million; provided further that Eligible Compensation based on draw, commissions
in excess of draw or production overrides
shall be further limited to the (i) Compensation Limit for any calendar year, or (ii) in the case
of Employees assigned to the Chase Home Finance division or successor business unit, 50% of the
Compensation Limit for any calendar year.

2 

1.18  Employee   shall mean an individual who is an employee of an Employer and a participant
accruing benefits under the Retirement Plan. By way of clarification, individuals who are not
classified as employees of an Employer for purposes of its payroll system, including, without
limitation, individuals employed by temporary help firms or other staffing firms or who are treated
as independent contractors by the Employer (whether or not deemed to be common law employees or
leased employees), are not  Employees.  In addition, in the event that any individual is
re-classified as an employee for any purpose by any action of any third party or as a result of any
lawsuit, action or administrative proceeding, such individual shall not be deemed an  Employee 
under the Plan.

1.19  Employer   shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under the Retirement Plan.

1.20  Final Average Pay Formula  shall mean a formula (other than a cash balance formula or
the Alternate Benefit formula) under the Retirement Plan.

1.21  Final Pay Benefit  shall mean a participant s Retirement Benefit derived from a Final
Average Pay Formula pursuant to which a participant in the Retirement Plan was accruing a benefit
immediately prior to his/her Separation from Service.

1.22  Grandfathered Chase Participant  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under the
Retirement Plan.

1.23  Grandfathered Morgan Participant  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under the
Retirement Plan.

1.24  Heritage Morgan Cash Balance Plan  shall mean the Cash Balance Plan of Morgan Guaranty
Trust Company of New York and Affiliated Companies for United States Employees as in effect
immediately prior to its merger into the Retirement Plan.

1.25  Interest Credit  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under the Retirement Plan.

1.26  Minimum Benefit  shall mean a Retirement Benefit derived from a Final Average Pay
Formula that was frozen. By way of clarification, this is a formula under which a Participant had
accrued benefits but was no longer actively accruing benefits immediately prior to the date of
his/her Separation from Service, provided that it shall not include the Morgan Benefit or a
frozen benefit based on an interest rate or actuarial factors.

3 

1.27  Morgan Benefit  shall mean a frozen benefit payable under the Retirement Plan to
individuals who became Employees of Participant Companies after January 1, 2001 which benefit was
derived from a Final Average Pay formula utilized by the Retirement Plan of Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company of New York and Affiliated Companies for United States Employees.

1.29  Morgan Employee  shall mean any individual employed by any member of the controlled
group of corporations having J.P. Morgan   Co as the parent corporation.

1.30  Participant   shall mean each Employee of an Employer who participates in the Plan in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein.

1.31  Participating Company  shall mean (a) the Bank and (b) each Employer, which has been
authorized by the Administrator to participate in the Plan and has agreed to comply with the
provisions of the Plan.

1.32  Pay-Based Credit  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under the Retirement Plan;
provided that it shall not include the special 3% pay credit provided to certain Morgan Employees
under the Retirement Plan.

1.33  Period of Service   shall have the meaning ascribed thereto under the Retirement Plan.

1.34  Plan   shall mean the JPMorgan Chase Excess Retirement Plan, as amended and restated
January 1, 2005.

1.35  Prior Morgan Plan  shall mean the Retirement Plan of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of
New York and Affiliated Companies for United States Employees

1.36  Qualified Participant  means a participant who (i) incurred a Separation from Service
on or after January 1, 2005 and on or before December 31, 2005 and (ii) accrued a benefit hereunder
on or after January 1, 2005.

1.37  Retirement Benefits  shall mean the Credit Balance of the Account of a Participant under
the Retirement Plan, or such other greater benefit that may be payable to the Participant under the
Retirement Plan, such as the Alternative Benefit, Minimum Benefits, Morgan Benefit Final Average
Pay Benefit, either case measured as of the Participant s date of Separation from Service.

1.38  Retirement Plan   shall mean the JPMorgan Chase Retirement Plan, as amended from time to
time.

1.39  Separation from Service  has the meaning set forth in the JPMorgan Chase 2005 Deferred
Compensation Plan, including the definition of Related Company.

4 

1.40  Specified Employee  has the meaning set forth in the JPMorgan Chase 2005 Deferred
Compensation Plan.

1.41  Supplemental Plan  shall mean the Supplemental Personal Pension Account Plan of Bank
One Corporation.

1.42  Transition Interest Credit  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto by the Retirement
Plan.

5 

Article II  
 Participation 

2.1  Eligibility for Credit Balance . Any Employee whose Eligible Compensation exceeds
the Compensation Limit during any calendar year in which he or she is a participant in the
Retirement Plan shall be a Participant as of such date with respect to the benefits described in
Article III.

2.2  Section 415 Limits . If, as of the date that an Employee incurs a Separation from
Service, an Employee s distribution of Retirement Benefits would be subject to the limitations of
Section 415 of the Code (whether or not a distribution of such benefits was made on such date),
such Employee, if not already a Participant, shall be a Participant as of the date of such
distribution and shall be eligible for the benefits described in Section 3.5.

6 

Article III   
 Benefits 

3.1  Pay-Based Credits . (a) Each Participant described in Section 2.1 whose Eligible
Compensation in any calendar month exceeds the monthly Compensation Limit shall have an amount
credited to an Account under the Plan equal to the excess of the (i) amount of the Pay-Based
Credit that would have been accrued under the Retirement Plan (based on the amount of Eligible
Compensation recognized under this Plan) but for the application of such Compensation Limit for
such calendar month over (ii) amount of the Pay-Based Credit actually credited under the
Retirement Plan for such calendar month. By way of clarification, if an individual is receiving
additional Pay-Based Credits under the Retirement Plan as a result of their service with Banc One
Corporation, First Commerce Corporation or their subsidiaries, those credits shall be Pay-Based
Credits for purposes of this Plan.

(b)  Interest Credits . The Account of a Participant shall be credited with the
Interest Credits that would have been provided under the Retirement Plan but for the Compensation
Limit s application to the Pay-Based Credits (but based on the amount of Eligible Compensation
recognized under this Plan). Any amounts attributable to the Prior Service Balance as defined in
the Retirement Plan shall receive Transition Interest Credits as defined in the Retirement Plan
until such date as it ceases under the Retirement Plan.

(c)  Account.  A bookkeeping account shall be established in the name of each
Participant to which the applicable Pay-Based, Interest and Transition Interest Credits shall be
recorded.

(d)  Prior Accruals . If a Participant has accrued a Credit Balance with respect to
this Plan prior to its amendment and restatement as of January 1, 2005, or the Supplemental Plan
prior to January 1, 2005 and incurs a Separation from Service after January 1, 2005, such Credit
Balance shall be part of his Account. By way of clarification, this Plan does not provide any
benefits for periods of employment prior to January 1, 2002 to any individual who was a Member of
the Heritage Morgan Cash Balance Plan or had an undistributed vested benefit under the Prior Morgan
Plan, except as provided in Section 3.5 dealing with Code Section 415 limitations. By way of
further clarification, an individual who was a participant in the Supplemental Plan shall have a
Credit Balance benefit not in excess of the amount accrued on his/her behalf under the Supplemental
Plan as of December 31, 2004.

3.2  Benefit Determined as of the Date of Separation from Service . Except as otherwise
provided in Section 5.1(b), all such calculations/determinations under Sections 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5
shall be made as of the date that a Participant incurs a Separation from Service. The Participant
is deemed to have elected receipt of his/her Retirement Benefit on such date. The benefit payable
hereunder shall not be affected by the amount actually distributed to the Participant from the
Retirement Plan. Any amount due under Section
3.3, 3.4 and 3.5 shall accrue Interest Credits up to the Distribution Date, as defined in the
Retirement Plan.

7 

3.3  Final Average Pay Benefit, Alternative Benefit or Minimum Benefit  If it is
determined that a Final Average Pay Benefit, Alternative Benefit or Minimum Benefit (other than
Morgan Benefit) would be payable to a Participant under the Retirement Plan on a Separation from
Service, then such Participant s benefit under this Plan, if any, shall equal the excess of (i) the
amount of the Retirement Benefit that would have been accrued under Final Average Pay Formula,
Minimum Benefit or Alternative Benefit of the Retirement Plan ((based on the amount of Eligible
Compensation recognized under this Plan for service/accruals after December 31, 2004) but for the
application of such Compensation Limit over (ii) the amount actually accrued under the Retirement
Plan; and any other amount due under this Plan, including the benefit under Section 3.1, shall be
forfeited, except for the amount specified in Section 3.5 so long as it is not duplicative of any
amount required under another plan or program maintained by the Employer.

3.4  Morgan Benefit . If it is determined that, as of the date of Separation from
Service, a Grandfathered Heritage Morgan Participant would receive his/her Retirement Benefit in
the form of Morgan Benefit, then such Participant shall be entitled to receive an amount as a lump
sum, if any, from this Plan equal to the excess of (i) the sum of his/her Credit Balances under
the Retirement Plan and Section 3.1 of this Plan over (ii) his/her lump sum value of his/her
Retirement Benefit. Any amounts under Section 3.1 in excess of the amount payable under this
Section 3.4 shall be forfeited. In addition, if the amount of the Minimum Benefit for a
Grandfathered Heritage Morgan Participant has been limited pursuant to amendments to the Retirement
Plan limiting early retirement benefits for certain highly compensated Grandfathered Heritage
Morgan Participants, then the amount so limited shall be payable hereunder.

3.5  Excess Benefits . If it is determined that, as of the Separation from Service, any
distribution of Retirement Benefits would be reduced by application of the limitations of Section
415 of the Code shall receive an amount equal to the excess of the (i) Retirement Benefits without
application of Section 415 of the Code over (ii) amount actually payable under the Retirement Plan;
provided that once a benefit is determined in accordance with Section 3.2, no adjustment shall be
made for changes to Section 415 of the Code.

3.6  Aggregate . Notwithstanding anything in this Article III to the contrary, the
total value of the benefits to be received under the Plan when combined with the Retirement
Benefits (measured as of the date of Separation from Service) shall never exceed the value of the
Retirement Benefits that would have been payable under the Retirement Plan but for the application
of Section 415 of the Code and the Compensation Limit;  provided  that the foregoing shall
not apply to amounts credited to an Account because of the inclusion of bonuses as part of Eligible
Compensation prior to January 1, 2005.

8 

3.7  Administrative/Judicial Determinations . Nothing in this Article or the Plan shall
require any amounts to be paid under this Plan, should an administrative or judicial determination
require benefit formulas, including the interest crediting rate, of the Retirement Plan to be
reformed or require the payment of Retirement Benefits or life annuity benefits under the
Retirement Plan in excess of those paid hereunder.

9 

Article IV  
 Vesting 

4.1  Account . Subject to the adjustments and forfeiture rules set forth in Sections
3.3, 3.4 and 3.6, the benefits described in Sections 3.1, 3.3 and 3.4 shall vest upon the date that
the benefits under the Retirement Plan vest. Benefits hereunder shall be forfeited upon the date
of a termination of employment as reflected on the books and records of the Employer if such
Participant is not then vested in his/her Retirement Benefits. Benefits hereunder shall not be
subject to being restored upon re-employment.

4.2  Vesting 415 Benefit . The benefit described in Section 3.4 shall be deemed to
accrue and vest only upon the dates or date of the Separation from Service.

10 

Article V  
 distributions 

5.1  Form and Date of Distribution.  (a) Except as otherwise provided herein, if a
Participant incurs a Separation from Service, his or her benefit under this Plan shall be
distributed in a lump sum during the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which
the Separation from Service occurred, provided that a Specified Employee shall not receive a
distribution from this Plan until at least six months have elapsed from the date of his/her
Separation from Service.

(b)A Grandfathered Chase Participant who receives his/her Retirement Benefit under a Final
Average Pay formula shall receive his/her benefit in the form of a single life month annuity
commencing in the calendar year following his/her Separation from Service. The Participant may
elect prior to the first annuity payment date between actuarial equivalent forms of annuity
benefits. For this purpose, the form of annuities available are those specified by the Retirement
Plan as applying to a Grandfathered Chase Participant and the actuarial factors set forth in the
Retirement Plan shall be used.

(c) If a Participant terminated employment prior to January 1, 2005, then any vested amounts
accrued prior to that date shall be subject to the terms of the Plan prior to its amendment and
restatement.

(d) (i) In the case of a Qualified Participant, vested amounts accrued prior to January 1,
2005 shall be subject to the terms of the Plan prior to its amendment and restatement. Any
amount accrued by a Qualified Participant after January 1, 2005 shall be subject to the election
that such individual made in 2005 in accordance with the transitional rules of Section 409A.

(ii) Notwithstanding Section 5.1(d)(i) above, if a Qualified Participant fails to elect
distribution of his/her Retirement Benefits by December 1, 2008, then Section 3.2 shall apply to
calculate the amount of his/her benefit hereunder as of December 31, 2008. That benefit shall be
distributed as a lump sum during calendar year 2009.

(e) If a Participant in the Supplemental Plan had made an election as to the form and time
of payment of his or her benefit under that Plan prior to December 31, 2004?, such election shall
govern the form and time of payment of benefits hereunder.

5.2  Withholding . Any payment under this Plan shall be reduced by any amount required
to be withheld under applicable Federal, state and local laws.

5.3  Participant s Rights Unsecured . The right of any Participant or former
Participant to receive further payments under the provisions of the Plan shall be an unsecured
claim against general funds of (i) the Bank, if the Employer employing the participant at the time
his/her Eligible Compensation is subject to this Plan, was a bank or a bank subsidiary or (ii) the
Corporation, if the Employer employing the Participant at the
time his/her Eligible Compensation is subject to this Plan, was not a bank or a bank subsidiary;
provided that the Corporation shall be responsible for any amounts accrued under the Supplemental
Plan. No assets shall be required to be segregated or earmarked to represent any liability for
supplemental benefits hereunder, but the Corporation and Bank shall have the right to establish
vehicles to assist them and the other Employers in meeting their obligations hereunder. The rights
of any person to receive benefits under the Plan shall be only those of a general unsecured
creditor; and such status shall not be enhanced by reason of the establishment of any funding
vehicles.

11 

5.4  Beneficiary . (a) Upon the death of a Participant who has vested benefits under
this Plan and whose death occurs prior to a Participant s Separation from Service, the Beneficiary
of such Participant shall receive (i) a benefit equal to the excess of Retirement Benefit available
to Beneficiary without application of Section 415 of the Code over the Retirement Benefit actually
received by the Beneficiary under the Retirement Plan and/or (ii) the Credit Balance of the
Participant under Section 3.1. The benefit shall be distributed as a lump sum in the calendar year
immediately following the calendar year in which the death occurred.

(b) Notwithstanding Section 5.4(a), upon the death of a Participant who has vested benefits
under this Plan and whose death occurs prior to a Participant s Separation from Service, a
Beneficiary whose survivor Retirement Benefit is based on the Final Average Pay Benefit,
Alternative Benefit or Minimum Benefit shall not receive the Credit Balance under Section 3.1 of
this Plan. Instead such Beneficiary shall have his/her benefit based on Section 3.3 utilizing the
assumptions with respect to a survivor pre-retirement annuity as set forth in the Retirement Plan.
The benefit shall be distributed as a lump sum in the calendar year immediately following the
calendar year in which the death occurred.

(c) Upon the death of a Participant who has vested benefits under this Plan and whose death
occurs after the Participant s Separation from Service, the Beneficiary shall receive any unpaid
amount due to the Participant in the form of a lump sum in the calendar year immediately following
the calendar year in which the death occurred; provided that if the Participant was receiving an
annuity hereunder, the Beneficiary shall be entitled only the survivor benefit, if any, under the
annuity.

(d) The distribution rules of the Plan, prior its to its amendment and restatement, shall
apply to the date of distribution with respect to a Beneficiary of a Participant who incurred a
Separation from Service prior to January 1, 2005.

12 

Article VII  
 Amendment and Termination 

6.1  Amendment . The Board or the Administrator may amend the Plan in any respect and
at any time; provided, however, that no amendment shall have the effect of reducing (i) any benefit
then being paid or payable to any Participant or to any Beneficiary, or (ii) the vested amount of
any benefit under Sections 3.1, 3.3 and 3.4 theretofore accrued on behalf of any Participant.

6.2  Termination . The Board may terminate the Plan at any time. In the event of
termination, the Plan shall continue in force with respect to any Participant, or other person
entitled to receive a benefit under Sections 3.1, 3.3 and 3.4 to the extent accrued and vested
under the Plan prior to its termination, and shall be binding upon any successor to substantially
all the assets of the Corporation or any other Employer.

13 

Article VIII  
 General Provisions 

7.1  Assignability . No right to receive payments hereunder shall be transferable or
assignable by a Participant except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or by a court
of competent jurisdiction. Any other attempted assignment or alienation of payments hereunder
shall be void and of no force or effect.

7.2  Administration . Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall be
administered by the Administrator, who shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
carrying out the provisions of the Plan, and who shall conclusively interpret, construe and
implement the provisions of the Plan, including eligibility to participate, the entitlement to
benefits and the amount of such benefits.

7.3  Legal Opinions . The Administrator may consult with legal counsel, who may be
counsel for the Bank or other counsel, with respect to his obligations or duties hereunder, or with
respect to any action proceeding or any question of law, and shall not be liable with respect to
any action taken, or omitted, by him in good faith pursuant to the advice of such counsel.

7.4  Liability . Any decision made or action taken by the Board, Committee or the
Administrator arising out of, or in connection with, the construction, administration,
interpretation and effect of the Plan shall be within their absolute discretion, and will be
conclusive and binding on all parties. Neither the Administrator nor a member of the Board or of
the Committee shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of omission or commission,
by any other member or employee or by any agent to whom duties in connection with the
administration of the Plan have been delegated or, except in circumstances involving bad faith, for
anything done or omitted to be done in connection with this Plan.

7.5  Corporate Reorganization . In the event that a corporation or unincorporated
entity ceases to meet the definition of an Employer such corporation or entity shall cease to be an
Employer under the plan and its employees shall cease to be Participants under the Plan, and the
Plan shall be treated as though a separate plan for the benefit of its employees who were
Participants in the plan to govern the accrued benefits of each such Participant (or any person
entitled to benefits in respect of such a Participant).

7.6  Construction . The masculine gender, where appearing in this Plan, shall be deemed
to also include the feminine gender. The singular shall also include the plural, where
appropriate.

7.7  Governing Law . The Plan shall be construed and administered in accordance with
the laws of the State of New York.

14 

7.8  Not an Employment Contract . Nothing herein shall be construed to confer upon any
person any legal right to continued employment with the Bank or any Related Company.

15 

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.8>
 8
 y74757exv10w8.txt
 EX-10.8: 1995 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Exhibit 10.8

As Amended
                                                               December 11, 1996

1995 Stock Incentive Plan of
             J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated and Affiliated Companies

Article I

Purpose

         The purpose of the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to afford
an incentive to key employees of J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated (the "Company")
and its affiliates to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company, to
encourage such employees to increase their efforts on behalf of the Company and
remain in its employ, and to more closely align the interests of such key
employees with those of the Company's stockholders.

Article II

Definitions

2.1. The following terms shall have the meanings described below when used in
the Plan:

         (a) "Award" shall refer to a Restricted Stock Award granted under
Article VIII or a Stock Unit Award granted under Article IX.

         (b) "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of the
Company.

         (c) "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
from time to time.

         (d ) "Committee" shall mean the committee appointed by the Board of
Directors to administer the Plan pursuant to Article III.

         (e) "Common Stock" shall mean common stock, par value $2.50, of the
Company.

1

(f) "Company" shall mean J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated or any
successor to it in ownership of all or substantially all of its assets.

         (g) "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended from time to time.

         (h) "Fair Market Value" of Common Stock on any day shall mean the
average of the highest and lowest price of Common Stock as reported on the
composite tape for such day, unless the Committee determines that another
procedure for determining Fair Market Value would be more appropriate.

         (i) "Incentive Stock Option" shall mean a stock option granted under
Article VI which is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the
Code.

         (j) "Nonqualified Stock Option" shall mean a stock option granted under
Article VI which is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.

         (k) "Option" shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified
Stock Option.

         (l) "Optionee" shall mean a Participant who is granted an Option.

         (m) "Participant" shall mean an eligible employee who has been granted
an Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Award under the Plan.

         (n) "Participating Company" shall mean the Company, the Trust Company
or any subsidiary or other affiliated entity (whether or not incorporated).

         (o) "Plan" shall mean this 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of J.P. Morgan &
Co. Incorporated and Affiliated Companies.

         (p) "Related Right" shall mean a Stock Appreciation Right described in
Section 7.2.

         (q) "Restricted Period" shall mean the period during which a Restricted
Stock Award is being earned in accordance with Section 8.3.

         (r) "Restricted Stock Award" shall mean an award granted under Article
VIII.

         (s) "Stand Alone Right" shall mean a Stock Appreciation Right described
in Section 7.3.

         (t) "Stock Appreciation Right" shall mean a right granted under Article
VII.

         (u) "Stock Unit Award" shall mean an award granted under Article IX.

                                       2
 
         (v) "Trust Company" shall mean Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New
York or any successor to it in ownership of all or substantially all of its
assets.

Article III

         3.1. (a) The Board of Directors shall appoint not less than three
Directors to the Committee which shall administer the Plan. With respect to
determinations regarding the grant, amount, acceleration or forfeiture of
Options, Stock Appreciation Rights or awards with respect to an eligible
employee who is a member of the Board of Directors, the Committee shall be
composed of all directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or
any other Participating Company. No individual shall be a member of the
Committee unless such individual is disinterested within the meaning of Rule
16b-3 under the Exchange Act. The Committee shall have full power and authority,
subject to such orders or resolutions not inconsistent with the provisions of
the Plan as may from time to time be issued or adopted by the Board of
Directors, to grant to eligible persons Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and
Awards under the Plan; to waive any restrictions or limitations, or impose
additional limitations or restrictions, on previously granted Options, Stock
Appreciation Rights, or Awards (within the parameters of the Plan); to interpret
the provisions of the Plan and any agreements relating to Options, Stock
Appreciation Rights or Awards granted under the Plan; to supervise the
administration of the Plan and to delegate to senior officers of the Company or
the Trust Company the power to act for the Committee as the Committee shall
specify.

         (b) All decisions made by the Committee (or such persons acting under a
delegation by the Committee pursuant to subsection 3.1 (a) ) pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan and related orders of the Board of Directors shall be
within the absolute discretion of the Committee or its delegate, as the case may
be, and shall be conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company,
stockholders, employees and beneficiaries of employees.

Article IV

Shares Subject To The Plan

4.1. (a) Subject to adjustment pursuant to subsection 4.1 (d), the
maximum number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which Options, Stock
Appreciation Rights and Awards may be granted shall be 28,000,000 shares of
Common Stock. Shares of Common Stock may be made available from the authorized
but unissued shares of the Company or from shares reacquired by the Company,
including shares purchased in the open market. If an Option, Stock Appreciation
Right or Award granted under the Plan shall expire or terminate for any reason
other than the exercise of a Related Right (to the extent set forth in
subsection 7.2(c) ), the shares subject to such Option, Stock Appreciation Right
or Award shall be

                                       3

available for other Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and Awards to the same
Participant or other eligible employees. Any shares delivered in payment of the
exercise price of an Option shall be available for other Options, Stock
Appreciation Rights and Awards to the same Participant or other eligible
employees.

         (b) Subject to adjustment pursuant to subsection 4.1 (d), of the total
shares of Common Stock referred to in subsection 4.1 (a), the number of shares
of Common Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted shall not exceed
7,000,000 shares of Common Stock.

         (c) Subject to adjustment pursuant to subsection 4.1 (d), of the total
shares of Common Stock referred to in subsection 4.1 (a), the number of shares
of Common Stock with respect to which Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may
be granted to any Participant during the term of the Plan shall not exceed
2,800,000 shares of Common Stock.

         (d) In the event that the Committee shall determine that any stock
dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger,
consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, exchange of shares, warrants or
rights offering to purchase Common Stock at a price substantially below fair
market value, or other similar corporate event affects the Common Stock such
that an adjustment is required in order to preserve the benefits or potential
benefits intended to be made available under this Plan, then the Committee
shall, in its sole discretion, and in such manner as the Committee may deem
equitable, adjust any or all of ( 1 ) the number and kind of shares which
thereafter may be awarded or optioned and sold or made the subject of Stock
Appreciation Rights under the Plan, (2) the number and kind of shares subject to
outstanding Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and Awards, and (3) the option
price with respect to any of the foregoing and/or, if deemed appropriate, make
provision for a cash payment to a Participant. The number of shares subject to
any Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Award shall always be a whole number.

Article V

Eligibility

         5.1. The employees eligible to participate in the Plan and receive
Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and Awards under the Plan shall consist of
key employees of the Company and other Participating Companies.

                                       4
 
Article VI

Stock Options

         6.1. Grant of Options. Subject to the limitations of the Plan, the
Committee shall, after such consultation with and consideration of the
recommendations of management as the Committee considers desirable, select from
eligible employees those Participants to be granted Options and determine the
time when each Option shall be granted and the number of shares subject to each
Option. Options may be either Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock
Options and more than one Option may be granted to the same person. Options
shall be evidenced in such manner as may be approved by the Committee. Options
may be amended or supplemented from time to time as approved by the Committee,
provided that the terms of such Options after being amended or supplemented
conform to the terms of the Plan.

         6.2. Option Price. The price at which shares may be purchased upon
exercise of a particular Option shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market
Value of such shares on the date such Option is granted.

         6.3. Medium and Time of Payment. No shares shall be delivered pursuant
to any exercise of an Option until payment in full of the Option price therefor
is received by the Company. Such payment shall be made in cash or, unless
prohibited by the Committee, through the delivery of shares of Common Stock of
the Company with a Fair Market Value equal to the total Option price or a
combination of cash and shares. The Committee may prescribe additional methods
of payment to the extent permitted by applicable law. Any shares so delivered
shall be valued at their Fair Market Value on the exercise date, or on such
other date as determined by the Committee for administrative convenience. No
Optionee, transferee, legal representative, legatee or distributee of any
Optionee shall be deemed to be a holder of any shares subject to any Option
prior to the issuance of such shares upon exercise of such Option or any related
Stock Appreciation Right.

         6.4. Term and Exercisability of Options. An Option shall be exercisable
ratably on each of the first three anniversaries of the date of grant of such
Option or as otherwise determined by the Committee, but in no event shall such
Option be exercised earlier than one year or later than ten years from the date
the Option is granted. The Committee may require that an Option only be
exercised upon the achievement of such performance objectives as the Committee
shall designate. An Option shall be subject to earlier termination as provided
in Section 6.6 with respect to death, retirement and termination of employment
or as provided in Section 10.6.

         6.5. Transferability of Options. (a) Except as provided in subsection
(b) below, an Option may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged,
hypothecated or otherwise disposed of, except by will or the laws of descent and
distribution and, during the lifetime of the

                                       5
 
Optionee, may be exercised only by such Optionee.

         (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, the Committee may determine
that an Option may be transferred by the Optionee to one or more members of the
Optionee's immediate family, to a partnership of which the only partners are
members of the Optionee's immediate family, or to a trust established by the
Optionee for the benefit of one or more members of the Optionee's immediate
family. For this purpose immediate family means the Optionee's spouse, parents,
children, grandchildren and the spouses of such parents, children and
grandchildren. A transferee described in this subsection may not further
transfer an Option. An Option transferred pursuant to this subsection shall
remain subject to the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, the
provisions of Section 6.6 relating to the exercise of the Option upon the death,
retirement or termination of employment of the Optionee, and shall be subject to
such other rules as the Committee shall determine.

         6.6. Death, Retirement and Termination of Employment. Subject to the
condition that no Option be exercised in whole or in part after the expiration
of the Option period specified by the Committee, and subject to the Committee's
right to cancel any Option in accordance with Section 10.6, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee:

         (a) Upon termination of employment prior to an Optionee's attainment of
age 55 but after the Optionee is eligible for retirement pursuant to a
retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, an Optionee or a
transferee described in subsection 6.5(b), may, within three years after the
date of such termination, purchase any or all of the shares subject to an Option
granted at least one year prior to such termination of employment, at or after
the time or times the Optionee would have been entitled to purchase such shares
had the Optionee not terminated employment;

         (b) Upon termination of employment on or after an Optionee's attainment
of age 55 and after the Optionee is eligible for retirement pursuant to a
retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, an Optionee or a
transferee described in subsection 6.5(b), may, at any time prior to the
expiration of the Option period, purchase any or all of the shares subject to an
Option granted at least one year prior to such termination of employment, at or
after the time or times the Optionee would have been entitled to purchase such
shares had the Optionee not terminated employment;

         (c) Upon the death of an Optionee after a termination of employment
described in subsections (a) or (b) above, the Optionee's designated
beneficiary, or if none, the person or persons to whom such Optionee's rights
under the Option are transferred by will or the laws of descent and
distribution, or a transferee described in subsection 6.5(b), may, at any time
prior to the expiration of the Option period determined under subsection (a) or
(b), as the case may be, purchase any or all of the shares subject to an Option
at or after the time the Optionee would have been entitled to purchase such
shares had the Optionee survived;

6

(d) Upon the death of an Optionee while employed, the Optionee's
designated beneficiary, or if none, the person or persons to whom such
Optionee's rights under the Option are transferred by will or the laws of
descent and distribution, or a transferee described in subsection 6.5(b), may,
within three years after the date of such death, but no later than the
expiration of the Option period, purchase any or all of the shares subject to an
Option at or after the time the Optionee would have been entitled to purchase
such shares had the Optionee survived; and

         (e) Upon termination of employment for any reason other than death or
retirement as aforesaid, an Optionee's Options, including any Options
transferred pursuant to subsection 6.5(b), shall be cancelled to the extent not
theretofore exercised. In addition, the Optionee shall repay to the Company the
value of the difference between the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise
over the Option price of any Options exercised within the six month period
preceding the date of such termination and the value of any Related Right
described in Section 7.2 exercised during such period.

Article VII

Stock Appreciation Rights

         7.1. Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights. Subject to the limitations of
the Plan, the Committee shall, after such consultation with and consideration of
the recommendations of management as the Committee considers desirable, select
from eligible employees those Participants to be granted Stock Appreciation
Rights and determine the time when each Stock Appreciation Right shall be
granted and such other terms of each Stock Appreciation Right pursuant to this
Article VII. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted either alone ("Stand Alone
Rights") or in conjunction with all or part of any Option granted under the Plan
( "Related Rights" ) . In the case of a Nonqualified Stock Option, Related
Rights may be granted either at or after the time of the grant of the
Nonqualified Stock Option. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, Related
Rights may be granted only at the time of the grant of the Incentive Stock
Option.

         7.2. Related Rights. (a) A Related Right shall be exercisable only at
such time or times and to the extent that the Option to which it relates shall
be exercisable in accordance with Article 6, provided that the Committee may,
for administrative convenience, determine that, for any Related Right which can
only be exercised during a limited period of time in order to satisfy rules
imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the exercise of any such
Related Right for cash during such limited period shall be deemed to occur for
all purposes hereunder on the day during such limited period on which the Fair
Market Value of the Common Stock is the highest. A Related Right granted with
respect to an Option shall terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the
termination or exercise of the related Option, provided that, unless otherwise
provided by the Committee, a Related Right granted with

7
 
respect to less than the full number of shares covered by a related Option shall
only be reduced if and to the extent that the number of shares covered by the
exercise or termination of the related Option exceeds the number of shares not
covered by the Related Right, provided further that, in the event of the death
of the Participant, the Related Right shall be cancelled to the extent not
theretofore exercised, whether or not the related Option is cancelled.

         (b) Upon the exercise of a Related Right, a Participant shall be
entitled to receive up to, but not more than, an amount in cash or shares of
Common Stock equal in value to the excess of the Fair Market Value of one share
of Common Stock over the Option price per share of Common Stock of the related
Option multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which
the Related Right shall have been exercised. The Committee shall have the right
to determine the form of payment. Any shares delivered in payment shall be
valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise. No fractional shares
shall be issued and the Participant shall receive cash in lieu thereof.

         (c) Upon the exercise of a Related Right, the Option or part thereof to
which such Related Right is related shall be deemed to have been exercised for
the purpose of the limitations set forth in Section 4.1 on the number of shares
of Common Stock to be issued under the Plan, but only to the extent of the
number of shares of Common Stock issued under the Related Right.

         7.3. Stand Alone Rights. (a) A Stand Alone Right shall be exercisable
ratably on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant of such Stand
Alone Right or as otherwise determined by the Committee, but in no event shall
such Stand Alone Right be exercised earlier than one year or later than ten
years from the date the Stand Alone Right is granted. The Committee may require
that a Stand Alone Right only be exercised upon the achievement of such
performance objectives as the Committee shall designate. The Committee may, for
administrative convenience, determine that, for any Stand Alone Right which can
only be exercised during a limited period of time in order to satisfy rules
imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the exercise of any such
Stand Alone Right for cash during such limited period shall be deemed to occur
for all purposes hereunder on the day during such limited period on which the
Fair Market Value of the Common Stock is the highest. A Stand Alone Right shall
be subject to earlier termination as provided in subsection 7.3(c) with respect
to death, retirement and termination of employment.

         (b) Upon the exercise of a Stand Alone Right, a Participant shall be
entitled to receive up to, but not more than, an amount in cash or shares of
Common Stock equal in value to the excess of the Fair Market Value of one share
of Common Stock on the date of exercise over the Fair Market Value of one share
of Common Stock on the date of grant multiplied by the number of shares in
respect of which the right is being exercised. The Committee shall have the
right to determine the form of payment. Any shares delivered in payment shall be
valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise. No fractional shares
shall be issued and the

                                       8

Participant shall receive cash in lieu thereof.

         (c) Subject to the condition that no Stand Alone Right may be exercised
in whole or in part after the expiration of the period specified by the
Committee, and subject to the Committee's right to cancel any Stock Appreciation
Right in accordance with Section 10.6, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee:

         (i) Upon termination of employment prior to a Participant's attainment
of age 55 but after the Participant is eligible for retirement pursuant to a
retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, a Participant may,
within three years after the date of such termination, exercise any or all of
the Stand Alone Right granted at least one year prior to such termination of
employment, at or after the time or times the Participant would have been
entitled to exercise such Stand Alone Right had the Participant not terminated
employment;

         (ii) Upon termination of employment on or after a Participant's
attainment of age 55 and after the Participant is eligible for retirement
pursuant to a retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, a
Participant may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Stock Appreciation
Right exercise period, exercise any or all of the Stand Alone Right granted at
least one year prior to such termination of employment, at or after the time or
times the Participant would have been entitled to exercise such Stand Alone
Right had the Participant not terminated employment; and

         (iii) Upon termination of employment for any reason other than
retirement as aforesaid, a Participant's Stand Alone Rights shall be cancelled
to the extent not theretofore exercised. In addition, except in the event of
death, the Participant shall repay to the Company the value of any Stand Alone
Right exercised within the six month period preceding the date of such
termination.

         7.4. Transfer of Stock Appreciation Rights. A Stock Appreciation Right
may not be transferred to anyone and may only be exercised by the Participant to
whom it is granted

Article VIII

Restricted Stock Awards

         8.1. Grant of Restricted Stock Awards. Subject to the limitations of
the Plan, the Committee shall, after such consultation with and consideration of
the recommendations of management as the Committee considers desirable, select
from eligible employees those Participants to be granted Restricted Stock Awards
and determine the time when each Award shall be granted, the vesting date or
vesting dates for each Award, the time or times as of which vested Awards shall
be paid and the number of share credits (each of which shall be equivalent to
one share of Common Stock) subject to each Award. Restricted Stock Awards

9
 
shall be evidenced in such manner as may be approved by the Committee.
Restricted Stock Awards may be amended or supplemented from time to time as
approved by the Committee, provided that the terms of such Awards after being
amended or supplemented conform to the terms of the Plan. No provision of this
Plan shall be interpreted to prohibit the grant of a Restricted Stock Award
hereunder in connection with awards granted pursuant to the 1995 Executive
Officer Performance Plan of J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated and Affiliated
Companies or any other plan of the Company, provided that any such Award
conforms to the terms of this Plan.

         8.2. Number of Share Credits. Each Restricted Stock Award shall state
the number of share credits to be subject to the Award.

         8.3. Restrictions. A Restricted Stock Award may not be sold, assigned,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of, except by will or
the laws of descent and distribution, for a period of five years from the date
of grant of the Award or such other period as the Committee shall determine, and
for such further period as the payment of Awards may be deferred pursuant to
Section 8.5. The Committee may define the Restricted Period in terms of the
passage of time, the satisfaction of performance criteria, a combination of time
and performance, or in any other manner it deems appropriate. Restricted Stock
Awards shall not be paid until the successful completion of the Restricted
Period except as may be otherwise provided in circumstances of death or
retirement pursuant to Section 8.4, or until the end of any deferral period
described in subsection 8.5(b).

         8.4. Death, Retirement and Termination of Employment. Unless otherwise
determined by the Committee:

         (a) Upon termination of a Participant's employment prior to the end of
the Restricted Period for any reason except for death, as described below, the
Participant's Awards shall be forfeited and the Participant shall have no right
with respect to such Award.

         (b) Upon the death of a Participant, an Award granted to such
Participant shall be (i) 100% (or such other percentage as the Committee shall
have determined at the time of grant of such Award) vested and nonforfeitable
and (ii) shall be payable to the Participant's beneficiary, or if none, the
person or persons to whom such Participant's rights under the Award are
transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution, subject to any
further deferral of the Award in accordance with subsection 8.5(b), provided
that with respect to an Award subject to performance restrictions, the Committee
shall make such determination with respect to such Award as it deems
appropriate.

         8.5. Payment of Awards. (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b)
hereof, as soon as practicable after the successful completion of the Restricted
Period, such Award shall be paid to the Participant or, in the case of the death
of the Participant, the Participant's beneficiary, or if none, the person or
persons to whom such Participant's rights under the

10
 
Award are transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution.

         (b) The Committee may, in its discretion, provide that payment of
Awards be deferred until such time or times as the Committee shall specify, or
such time or times as the Participant may elect. Any election of a Participant
pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be filed with the Committee in
accordance with such rules and regulations, including any deadline for the
making of such an election, as the Committee may provide.

         (c) Except as otherwise determined pursuant to subsection 8.6(c),
payments pursuant to this Section 8.5, including any dividend equivalents
determined under subsection 8.6(b), shall be made in shares of Common Stock,
except there may be paid in cash the value of any partial shares of Common Stock
and that part of the total payment determined by the Company to be necessary to
satisfy tax withholding requirements.

         8.6. Dividend Equivalents. (a) Except as may be otherwise determined by
the Committee, in addition to the payment provided for in Section 8.5, each
Participant (or beneficiary) entitled to payment under Section 8.5 shall receive
the dividend equivalent amount calculated under subsection (b) hereof.

         (b) The dividend equivalent amount is the number of additional share
credits attributable to the number of share credits awarded plus additional
share credits calculated hereunder. Such additional share credits shall be
determined and credited as of the end of each calendar year by dividing (1) the
aggregate cash dividends which would have been paid had the share credits
awarded or credited under this subsection (b), as the case may be, been actual
shares of Common Stock on the record date for each such dividend during such
calendar year by (2) the average market prices per shares of Common Stock on the
last trading day of each calendar month during the 12 months ending on the
November 30 preceding the date such determination is being made. For this
purpose, the market price on any day shall be the average of the highest and
lowest price of a share of Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for
such day. The Committee may designate any other manner for determining and
crediting dividend equivalents as it deems appropriate.

         (c) In such cases as the Committee may deem advisable, the Committee
may, in lieu of the crediting provided for in subsection (b), determine to pay
all or part of the dividend equivalent amount in cash or stock as dividends are
actually paid on Common Stock, or at such other time or times as the Committee
may otherwise determine.

                                       11
 
Article IX

Stock Unit Awards

         9.1. Grant of Stock Unit Awards. The Committee shall have authority to
grant to eligible employees Stock Unit Awards which can be in the form of Common
Stock or units, the value of which is based, in whole or in part, on the value
of Common Stock. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, including Section 9.2
below, Stock Unit Awards shall be subject to such terms, restrictions,
conditions, vesting requirements and payment rules (all of which are sometimes
hereinafter collectively referred to as "rules" ) as the Committee may determine
in its sole discretion, all such rules applicable to a particular Stock Unit
Award to be reflected in writing and furnished to the Participant. In no event
shall any Award vest less than one year from the date of grant. The rules need
not be identical for each Stock Unit Award. No provision of this Plan shall be
interpreted to prohibit the grant of a Stock Unit Award hereunder in connection
with awards granted pursuant to the 1995 Executive Officer Performance Plan or
any other plan of the Company, provided that any such Award conforms to the
terms of the Plan.

         9.2. Rules. In the sole discretion of the Committee, a Stock Unit Award
shall be granted subject to the following rules

         (a) Any shares of Common Stock which are part of a Stock Unit Award may
not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed
of, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, prior to the date
on which the shares are issued or such other date provided by the Committee at
the time of grant of the Award or thereafter.

         (b) Stock Unit Awards may provide for the payment of cash consideration
by the person to whom such Award is granted or provide that the Award, and
Common Stock to be issued in connection therewith, if applicable, shall be
delivered without the payment of cash consideration.

         (c) Stock Unit Awards may relate in whole or in part to performance
criteria established by the Committee at the time of grant.

         (d) Stock Unit Awards may provide for deferred payment schedules,
vesting over a specified period of employment, the payment (on a current or
deferred basis) of dividend equivalent amounts, with respect to the number of
shares of Common Stock covered by the Award, and elections by the Participant to
defer payment of the Award or the lifting of restrictions on the Award, if any.

12
 
Article X

General Provisions

         10.1. Change in Control. (a) (i) In the case of a Change in Control (as
defined below) of the Company, each Option and Stock Appreciation Right then
outstanding shall (unless the Committee determines otherwise) immediately be
nonforfeitable and exercisable in full;

         (ii) In the case of a Change in Control (as defined below) of the
Company, each Award shall (unless the Committee determines otherwise)
immediately be fully vested and nonforfeitable and shall thereupon be paid as
soon as practicable.

         (b) Any determination by the Committee made pursuant to this Section
10.1 may be made as to all outstanding Options, Stock Appreciation Rights or
Awards or only as to certain Options, Stock Appreciation Rights or Awards
specified by the Committee, and all such determinations shall be made in cases
covered by paragraphs (c) (i) or (ii) below, prior to or as soon as practicable
after the occurrence of such event and in the cases covered by paragraphs (c)
(iii) and (iv) below, prior to the occurrence of such event.

         (c) A Change in Control shall occur if:

         (i) any "person" or "group of persons" as such terms are used in
Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act directly or indirectly purchases or
otherwise becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the
Exchange Act) or has the right to acquire such beneficial ownership (whether or
not such right is exercisable immediately, with the passage of time, or subject
to any condition), of voting securities representing 25% or more of the combined
voting power of all outstanding voting securities of the Company;

         (ii) during any period of two consecutive years, the individuals who at
the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors cease for any
reason to constitute at least a majority of the members thereof, unless ( 1 )
there are seven or more directors then still in office who were directors at the
beginning of the period, and (2) the election, or the nomination for election by
the Company's stockholders, of each new director was approved by at least
two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the
beginning of the period;

         (iii) the stockholders of the Company shall approve an agreement to
merge or consolidate the Company with or into another corporation as a result of
which less than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving or
resulting entity are or are to be owned by the former shareholders of the
Company (excluding from former shareholders, a shareholder who is or, as a
result of the transaction in question, becomes an "affiliate," as defined in
Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, of any party to such consolidation or
merger); or

13

(iv) the stockholders of the Company shall approve the sale of all or
substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets to a person or entity
which is not a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.

         10.2. Designation of Beneficiary. Subject to such rules and regulations
as the Committee may prescribe, including the right of the Committee to limit
the types of designations which are acceptable for purposes of the Plan, each
Participant who shall be granted an Option or Award under the Plan may designate
a beneficiary or beneficiaries and may change such designation from time to time
by filing a written designation of beneficiaries with the Committee on a form to
be prescribed by it, provided that no such designation shall be effective unless
so filed prior to the death of such Participant.

         10.3. No Right of Continued Employment. Neither the establishment of
the Plan, the granting of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights or Awards, nor the
payment of any benefits hereunder nor any action of the Company or of the Board
of Directors or of the Committee shall be held or construed to confer upon any
person any legal right to be continued in the employ of the Company or its
subsidiaries, each of which expressly reserves the right to discharge any
employee whenever the interest of any such company in its sole discretion may so
require without liability to such company, the Board of Directors or the
Committee except as to any rights which may be expressly conferred upon such
employee under the Plan.

         10.4. No Segregation of Cash or Shares. The Company shall not be
required to segregate any cash or any shares of Common Stock which may at any
time be represented by Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Awards, share credits
or dividend equivalent amounts and the Plan shall constitute an "unfunded" plan
of the Company. No employee shall have voting or other rights with respect to
shares of Common Stock prior to the delivery of such shares. The Company shall
not, by any provisions of the Plan, be deemed to be a trustee of any Common
Stock or any other property, and the liabilities of the Company to any employee
pursuant to the Plan shall be those of a debtor pursuant to such contract
obligations as are created by or pursuant to the Plan, and the rights of any
employee, former employee or beneficiary under the Plan shall be limited to
those of a general creditor of the Company. In its sole discretion, the
Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the
obligations of the Company and each other Participating Company under the Plan,
provided, however, that existence of such trusts or other arrangements is
consistent with the unfunded status of the Plan.

         10.5. Delivery of Shares. No shares shall be delivered pursuant to any
exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right or pursuant to the payment of
any Award until the requirements of such laws and regulations as may be deemed
by the Committee to be applicable thereto are satisfied.

         10.6. Cancellation of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and Awards.

14
 
         (a) Prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, but not thereafter,
the Committee may, in its sole discretion and with or without cause, cancel any
Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Award in whole or in part to the extent it
has not theretofore been exercised or, in the case of Awards, become vested.
Such cancellation shall be effective as of the date specified by the Committee.

         (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, prior to payment of any
Award, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, in cases involving a serious
breach of conduct by an employee or former employee, or activity of a former
employee in competition with the business of a Participating Company, cancel any
Award, whether or not vested, in whole or in part. Such cancellation shall be
effective as of the date specified by the Committee. The determination of
whether an employee or former employee has engaged in a serious breach of
conduct or activity in competition with the business of a Participating Company
shall be determined by the Committee in good faith and in its sole discretion.

         10.7. Transfer, Leave of Absence, etc. For purposes of the Plan: (1 ) a
transfer of a Participant from a Participating Company to an affiliated company,
(2) a leave of absence, duly authorized in writing by the Participating Company,
for military service or sickness, or for any other purpose approved by the
Participating Company H the period of such leave does not exceed ninety days,
and (3) a leave of absence in excess of ninety days, duly authorized in writing
by the Participating Company, provided the Participant's right to reemployment
is guaranteed either by a statute or by contract, shall not be deemed a
termination of employment.

         10.8. New York Law to Govern. All questions pertaining to the
construction, regulation, validity and effect of the provisions of the Plan
shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.

         10.9. Payments and Tax Withholding. The delivery of any shares of
Common Stock and the payment of any amount in respect of a Stock Appreciation
Right or Award shall be of the account of the applicable Participating Company
and any such delivery or payment shall not be made until the recipient shall
have made satisfactory arrangements for the payment of any applicable
withholding taxes.

Article XI

Amendment and Termination

         11.1. Amendments, Suspension or Discontinuance. The Board of Directors
may amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan, provided, however, that the Board of
Directors may not, without the prior approval of the stockholders of the
Company, make any amendment for which stockholder approval is necessary to
comply with any applicable tax

15
 
or regulatory requirement, including for these purposes any approval requirement
which is a prerequisite for exemptive relief under Section 16(b) of the Exchange
Act, and provided, further, that upon or following the occurrence of a Change in
Control no amendment may adversely affect the rights of any person in connection
with any Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Award previously granted.

         11.2. Termination. No Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Award shall
be granted under the Plan after expiration of ten years from the date upon which
the Plan is approved by vote of the stockholders of the Company.

16

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.9>
 9
 y74757exv10w9.htm
 EX-10.9: EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN

EX-10.9 

Exhibit 10.9

Executive Retirement Plan of 
JPMorgan Chase   Co.  
As Amended and Restated December 31, 2008

Purpose  .

This Plan is a pension plan designed to provide supplemental retirement benefits to a select
group of management or highly compensated employees. This Plan shall be unfunded and shall not be
subject to Parts 2, 3 or 4 of Title 1 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
( ERISA ), as amended from time to time.

The Plan applies to accruals or vesting of accruals that occurred on or after January 1, 2005.
Pursuant to final and proposed Treasury Regulations and Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1
promulgated under Section 409A of the Code, the Plan has been interpreted and operated in good
faith compliance with Section 409A through December 31, 2008. Effective December 31, 2008, this
Plan has been amended to reflect changes in tax laws as mandated by Section 409A of the Code.

The Plan, dated January 1, 2002 and employee communications through December 31, 2008 shall
constitute the plan for the interim period of good faith compliance. All sections of the Plan has
been and shall be interpreted in such a manner as to comply with Section 409A

The terms and conditions of this Plan prior to its amendment and restatement will continue to
apply to Participants whose employment terminated on or before January 1, 2005 with a vested
benefit. The entire Accrued Benefit of a Participant whose employment continued after January 1,
2005 shall be subject to the amended and restated Plan..

The Plan was amended in 1997 to change vesting from ten to five years and with the elimination
of a final average pay feature in the Retirement Plan, it was further amended to allow the election
noted above.

Article I. Definitions  .

The following are defined terms wherever they appear in the Plan:

Accrual Amount  shall mean the amount which has been specified in writing, from time to time,
by the Administrator to the Participant.

Accrued Benefit  shall mean the amount calculated pursuant to Section 3.1(a) as of any
determination date on or January 1, 2005 as if the Participant had Separated from Service on such
date. It shall not include actuarial factors, payment dates, form of payment and other optional
benefits hereunder.

Administrator  shall mean the individual holding the title Compensation and Benefit Executive
of the Corporation or the Bank, or any successor title.

1 

Bank  shall mean JPMorgan Chase Bank NA or any successor thereto, whether by merger,
consolidation, purchase of substantially all its assets, or otherwise.

Board  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation;  provided  that any action
taken by a duly authorized committee of the Board (including any action pursuant to Article 6.1)
within the scope of the authority designated to it by the Board shall be considered an action of
the Board for purposes of this Plan.

Cause  shall mean either (i) any violation of the Code of Conduct of the Corporation or
successor code of conduct, including, but not limited to, an act or acts of personal dishonesty
resulting or intended to result in the personal enrichment of the Participant to the detriment of
his/her Employer and gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of the Participant s
duties, or (ii) the issuance of an order by a United States or State bank regulatory authority,
removing the Participant from office pursuant to a disciplinary proceeding based on the actions of
the Participant.

Corporation  shall mean JPMorgan Chase   Co. or any successor thereto, whether by merger,
consolidation, purchase of substantially all its assets, or otherwise.

Delayed Retirement  shall mean for periods on or after January 1, 2005, a Participant s
Separation from Service; provided that the Participant s age exceeds 65 and his/her Period of
Service is at least 10 years, as of the date of such Separation from Service.

Early Retirement  shall mean for periods on or after January 1, 2005 a Participant s
Separation from Service occurs; provided that, the individual had attained at least age 55 and
his/her Period of Service is at least 5 years, as of the date of such Separation from Service. In
addition, Early Retirement shall also mean either a Separation from Service following the
attainment of at least age 50 and Period of Service of at least 20 years.

Employee  shall mean an individual who is a salaried employee of an Employer. By way of
clarification, individuals who are not classified as employees of an Employer for purposes of its
payroll system, including, without limitation, individuals employed by temporary help firms or
other staffing firms or who are treated as independent contractors by the Employer (whether or not
deemed to be common law employees or leased employees), are not  Employees.  In addition, in the
event that any individual is re-classified as an employee for any purpose by any action of any
third party or as a result of any lawsuit, action or administrative proceeding, such individual
shall not be deemed an  Employee  under the Plan.

Employer  shall mean the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is designated by the
Administrator as an Employer.

Initial Plan Participation Date  shall mean the date specified by the Administrator in the
notice referred to in Section 2.1, which shall not be earlier than the date that the individual
satisfies the criteria established by the Board for participation.

2 

Normal Retirement  shall mean a Participant s Separation from Service if such Separation
occurs on or after January 1, 2005, provided that in either case, the individual had attained at
least age 60 and had a Period of Service of at least 5 years as of the date of such Separation
from Service

Participant  shall mean each Employee of the Employer who is eligible to participate under
Section 2.1 and elects to participate as provided for in Section 2.2.

Period of Service  shall have the meaning ascribed thereto by the JPMorgan Chase Retirement
Plan or its successor plan;  provided  that a Period of Service shall exclude service prior
to the date of acquisition with respect to an entity acquired by an Employer after January 1, 1995,
unless the Administrator specifies to the contrary.

Plan  shall mean this Executive Retirement Plan of JPMorgan Chase   Co. and Certain
Subsidiaries.

Separation from Service  shall have the meaning set forth in the JPMorgan Chase   Co. 2005
Deferred Compensation Plan, including the definition of Affiliated Company.

Specified
Employee  shall have the meaning set forth in the JPMorgan Chase   Co. 2005 Deferred
Compensation Plan.

Subsidiary  shall mean an entity in which an Employer owns directly, or indirectly, 80
percent or more of the outstanding voting common stock or, if not a corporation, 80 percent or more
of the voting power of such entity.

Surviving Spouse  shall have the meaning ascribed to the individual entitled to a retirement
benefit of a Participant under the Retirement Plan upon the death of a Participant.

Vested Term  shall mean a Participant with a vested Accrued Benefit who incurs a Separation
from Service on or after January 1, 2005 prior to attaining age 55.

Article II. Participation  .

2.1  Eligibility . The Administrator shall notify, in writing, each Employee who is
eligible to participate in the Plan and shall specify in such writing the Initial Plan
Participation Date and Level of Participation of each such Employee;  provided  that each
such Employee shall have satisfied the criteria established by the Board for participation in this
Plan, or shall be listed on Schedule I hereto.

2.2  Participation . Each Employee shall elect within sixty days after the date of
notification by the Administrator of his/her eligibility to participate in the Plan by completing
such forms as the Administrator shall require, including but not limited to, an agreement to
participate in such other
programs as the Administrator may specify and by providing, from time to time, such information as
may be specified by the Administrator. If any individual does not elect to participate in the Plan
when first eligible, the Administrator, in his/her sole discretion, may extend on another
date or
dates the opportunity to participate hereunder to such individual on such terms and conditions as
the Administrator may specify in writing.

3 

2.3 (a)  Discontinued Participation by Election of Employer . Notwithstanding the
continued employment of a Participant with an Employer, the Administrator may in the exercise of
his/her sole discretion, terminate the participation of any Participant by written notice to the
Participant. No additional benefits shall be accrued under Section 3.1(a) from the date active
participation ceases hereunder, as specified by the Administrator. Such Accrued Benefit shall be
subject to vesting under Section 4.1 and to the provisions of Section 3.1(c) or (d), if applicable,
upon termination of employment with an Employer or Subsidiary.

(b)  Discontinued Participation by Election of Participant . A Participant may
voluntarily discontinue participation in the Plan at any time by giving 30 days  advance written
notice to the Administrator. No additional benefits shall be accrued under Section 3.1(a) from the
date active participation ceases hereunder, as specified by the Administrator. Such Accrued
Benefit shall be forfeited unless the Participant is vested pursuant to Section 4.1 as of the date
of receipt of the notice by the Administrator. In addition, unless such Participant, as of the
date of receipt of the notice by the Administrator, has satisfied the criteria for Retirement or
Early Retirement, as the case may be, such Accrued Benefit (if vested) shall be treated in
accordance with Section 3.1(e).

Article III. Benefits  .

3.1 (a)  Annuity Benefits . Subject to Sections 3.1(b)-(f) and Section 5.1, each
Participant who is vested pursuant to Section 4.1, shall receive an annual annuity, payable in 12
equal monthly installments, for life commencing at age 65, equal to the product of (i) his/her
Period of Service from the Initial Plan Participation Date to the date of the Participant s
Separation from Service with an Employer (or the date participation is discontinued, as specified
pursuant to Section 2.3, if applicable) multiplied by (ii) his/her Accrual Amount as specified by
the Administrator.

(b)  Change in Participant Level  . Notwithstanding Section 3.1(a), if a Participant,
within a 60 day period following written notice from the Administrator that such Participant is
eligible to participate at an increased Accrual Amount, does not satisfy various criteria as
specified by the Administrator for participation at such increased Accrual Amount, the annuity
benefit described in Section 3.1(a) shall be based on the Accrual Amount for which such criteria
were satisfied.

(c)  Normal Retirement . Upon Normal Retirement, a Participant shall receive the annual
annuity benefit as calculated under Section 3.1(a) without actuarial reduction.

(d)  Early Retirement . Upon Early Retirement, a Participant shall receive the annual
annuity benefit as calculated under Section 3.1(a) reduced by 0.5% for each month prior to age 60
that such benefit commences.

(e)  Vested Term Benefits . A Vested Term Participant shall receive the annual annuity
benefit as calculated under Section 3.1(a);  provided  that if the benefit commences prior to
age 65, it
shall be reduced by .625% for each month prior to age 65 that such benefit commences.
(See Section 5.1(b) for payment date.)

4 

(f)  Delayed Retirement . Upon a Delayed Retirement, the Accrued Benefit of such
Participant shall be actuarially increased using reasonable actuarial factors to reflect the
delay in receipt of the annuity benefits payable at age 65.

Article IV. Vesting Date  .

4.1  Vesting . A Participant shall vest in his/her annuity benefit described in Section
3.1 after a Period of Service of at least 5 years. If employment terminates with an Employer or
Subsidiary at any time prior to the satisfaction of such Period of Service, all benefits described
in Article III of the Plan shall be forfeited and shall not be restored upon rehire or
recommencement of participation. Prior to January 1, 1997, the Plan required a Period of Service
of at least 10 years in order for a Participant to vest.

4.2  Forfeiture of Benefits . Notwithstanding Section 4.1 to the contrary, Accrued
Benefits (whether or not in pay status) shall be terminated and forfeited in the following
circumstances:

(i) 
       
     a termination of employment for Cause; 

(ii) 
       
     within 2 years of a termination of employment, the solicitation
of the customers, or clients of the Employer or any affiliate of the Employer
by the Participant in order to compete with his/her Employer or any affiliate
of the Employer; 

(iii) 
       
     within 2 years of termination of employment, the hiring of, or
the attempt to hire, the Employees of the Employer or any affiliate of the
Employer; 

(iv) 
       
     at any time after a termination of employment, a release to any
party unrelated to an Employer of secret or confidential information obtained
by the Participant in the course of his/her employment, except as the case may
be required by law; or 

(v) 
       
     at any time, an attempt to assign, encumber or hypothecate
benefits as provided in Section 7.1. 

Article V. Payment  .

5.1(a)  Annuity Payments on Retirement . Benefits shall commence on the first day
of the month next following a Participant s Delayed, Normal or Early Retirement in the form
specified in Section 3.1(a) and subject to the applicable adjustments (if any) set forth in Article
III.

(b)  Vested Term .

5 

(i) A Vested Term Participant whose Accrued Benefit was permitted to make an election prior
to December 31, 2007 to commence receipt of his/her annuity benefit as of the first of any month
on or after attaining age 55 but not later than the first month following the attainment of age 65
subject to the adjustments provided in Article III; provided that no election shall be effective
if the benefit hereunder is payable in the year in which the election was made. If such
Participant failed to make an appropriate election or timely election, then his/her annuity shall
commence as of first day of the month next following attaining age 55.

(iii) A Participant who was not age 55 as of December 31, 2007 was permitted to make the
election described in Section 5.1(b)(i) above to take effect only if he or she incurs a Separation
from Service as a Vested Term. If such Participant fails to make an appropriate election or timely
election and subsequently incurs a Separation from Service as a Vested Term, then his/her annuity
shall commence as of first day of month next following attaining age 55.

(c)  Form of Annuity.  The Administrator may specify a form of annuity other than a
single life annuity using actuarial equivalent factors for an Accrued Benefit. Once an annuity is
in pay status its form cannot be changed. .

5.2  Survivor Benefit After Termination of Employment . In the event that a Participant
with a vested annuity benefit dies before the annuity specified in Section 3.1 has commenced, the
Surviving Spouse shall receive an amount equal to that provided to a surviving spouse under a 50%
joint and survivor annuity commencing on the first day of the month following (i) the date of death
if death occurs after age 55 or (ii) the date that such Participant would have attained age 55 if
death occurs before age 55. The amount of such spousal annuity shall be based upon the assumption
that the Participant had received the benefit specified in Section 3.1(a) on the later of the day
preceding his date of death or age 55, in the form of a 50% joint and survivor benefit, and
immediately died. Section 5.1 (c) shall apply to the actuarial factors used to convert the single
life annuity under Section 3.1(a) into a 50% joint and survivor annuity benefit.

5.3  Responsibility for Payment . Payment of annuity benefits under the Plan shall be
made by the Employer who last employed the Participant. In the case benefits are payable with
respect to a Participant whose service included employment with more than one Employer, the
Administrator, in his sole discretion , shall determine any amounts to be reimbursed by the prior
Employer to the Employer paying benefits hereunder.

5.4  Withholding . The Employer shall withhold any amount required to be withheld under
applicable Federal, state and local laws, and any such payment shall be reduced by the amount so
withheld.

5.5  Participant s Rights Unsecured . All annuity payments under the Plan shall be made
from the general funds of the Employer. No assets of the Employer shall be required to be
segregated or earmarked to represent any liability for the annuity benefits under Section 3.1, but
the Employer shall have the right to establish vehicles to assist it in meeting its obligations
hereunder. The rights of any person to receive benefits under the Plan shall be only those of a
general unsecured creditor; and
such status shall not be enhanced by reason of the establishment of any vehicles to assist the
Employer in meeting its obligations hereunder.

6 

5.6  Specified Employees . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a benefit
shall not be paid to a Specified Employee until the later of (i) his/her scheduled payment date or
(ii) the first day of the seventh month following his or her Separation from Service. Any monthly
payments delayed by this provision shall be payable as a lump sum without interest as of the first
day of the seventh month.

Article VI Amendment and Termination  . 

6.1  Amendment . The Board or the Administrator may amend the Plan in any respect and
at any time;  provided ,  however , that no amendment shall have the effect of reducing
(i) any benefit then being paid to any Participant or to any other person pursuant to Articles III,
or (ii) the Accrued Benefit under Section 3.1(a), theretofore accrued on behalf of any Participant.

6.2  Termination . The Board may terminate the Plan at any time. In the event of
termination, the Plan shall continue in force with respect to any Participant, or other person
entitled to an Accrued Benefit under Article III to the extent accrued under the Plan prior to its
termination, and shall be binding upon any successor to substantially all the assets of the
Corporation or any other Employer.

Article VII. General Provisions   .  

7.1  Assignability . No right to receive payments hereunder shall be transferable or
assignable by a Participant, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or by a
court of competent jurisdiction. Any other attempted assignment or alienation of payments
hereunder shall be void and of no force or effect and shall result in forfeiture of benefits.

7.2  Administration . Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall be
administered by the Administrator, who shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
carrying out the provisions of the Plan, and who shall interpret, construe and implement the
provisions of the Plan, including eligibility to participate, Initial Plan Participation Date,
Accrual Amount, the entitlement to benefits, the amount of benefits and actuarial factors.

7.3  Legal Opinions . The Administrator may consult with legal counsel, who may be
counsel for the Bank or other counsel, with respect to his obligations or duties hereunder, or with
respect to any action proceeding or any question of law, and shall not be liable with respect to
any action taken, or omitted, by him in good faith pursuant to the advice of such counsel.

7.4  Liability . Any decision made or action taken by the Board, the board of directors
(or governing body) of an Employer, Committee, the Administrator or any employee of the Corporation
or of any Employer, arising out of, or in connection with, the construction, administration,
interpretation and effect of the Plan, shall be within absolute discretion of such person, and will
be conclusive and binding on all parties. Neither the Administrator nor a member of the Board or
the board of directors (or governing body) of an Employer or the Committee and no Employee shall be
liable for any act or
action hereunder, whether of omission or commission, by any other member or employee or by any
agent to whom duties in connection with the administration of the Plan have been delegated or for
anything done or omitted to be done in connection with this Plan, except in circumstances involving
bad faith.

7 

7.5  Corporate Reorganization . In the event that a corporation or unincorporated
entity ceases to meet the definition of an Employer, such corporation or entity shall cease to be
an Employer under the Plan and its employees shall cease to be Participants under the Plan.
Benefits shall be frozen as specified in Article II.

7.6  Construction . The masculine gender, where appearing in this Plan, shall be deemed
to also include the feminine gender. The singular shall also include the plural, where
appropriate.

7.7  Claims and Appeals . The Administrator shall establish a claims and appeals
procedure that satisfies the requirements of Part 5 of Title I of ERISA.

7.8  Governing Law . The Plan shall be construed and administered in accordance with
the laws of the State of New York.

7.9  Not an Employment Contract . Nothing herein shall be construed to confer upon any
person any legal right to continued employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary.

8 

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.10>
 10
 y74757exv10w10.htm
 EX-10.10: AMENDMENT TO BANK ONE CORPORATION DIRECTOR STOCK PLAN

EX-10.10 

Exhibit 10.10

AMENDMENT TO BANK ONE CORPORATION 
DIRECTOR STOCK PLAN 
(As amended and restated effective February 1, 2003) 

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that it is necessary and desirable to amend the
Bank One Corporation Director Stock Plan (the  Plan ) as permitted by Section 15; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that the proposed amendments to the Plan do not
adversely change the terms and conditions of outstanding awards under the Plan.

NOW THEREFORE, effective as of January 14, 2004, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:

1. Section 9(c) is hereby amended by adding the following at the end thereof:

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the cessation of an Optionee s service on the
Board as a result of the transactions contemplated by and effectuated in connection with
the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 14, 2004 by and between Bank One
Corporation and J.P. Morgan Chase   Co. (the  Merger Agreement ) shall constitute a
 retirement  for purposes of this Section 9(c).

2. Section 13 is hereby amended by adding the following at the end thereof:

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the actions and transactions contemplated by
and effectuated in connection with the Merger Agreement shall not constitute a Change of
Control for any purpose of this Plan.

3. Except as expressly modified hereby, the terms and provisions of the Plan
shall remain in full force and effect.

1 

BANK ONE CORPORATION 
DIRECTOR STOCK PLAN  
As Amended and Restated Effective February 1, 2003

2 

BANK ONE CORPORATION 
DIRECTOR STOCK PLAN  
As Amended and Restated Effective February 1, 2003

1. Purpose and History of the Plan 

The purpose of the Bank One Corporation Director Stock Plan (the  Plan ) is to promote the
long-term growth of Bank One Corporation by increasing the proprietary interest of non-employee
directors in Bank One Corporation and to attract and retain highly qualified and capable directors.
The Plan was last restated effective April 1, 1999 and has since been amended from time to time.
This amendment and restatement of the Plan is effective February 1, 2003.

2. Definitions 

Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:

(a)  Annual Cash Retainer  means the annual cash retainer fee payable during the Plan Year by
the Corporation, or a subsidiary or affiliate thereof, to a Director for his or her services as a
Director. To the extent a Director is also entitled to receive an additional retainer as
compensation for serving as the chairperson of a committee of the Board,  Annual Cash Retainer 
shall include such additional annual cash amount.

(b)  Annual Stock Retainer  means the award of Stock or Stock Units made in accordance with
Section 7 of the Plan.

(c)  Award  means an award granted to a Director under the Plan in the form of Options,
Shares, or Stock Units or any combination thereof.

(d)  Award Grant Date  means the date upon which an Award is granted to the Director.

(e)  Award Summary  means a written summary setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award
made under this Plan.

(f)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.

(g)  Change of Control  means a change of control of the Corporation as defined by the Board
from time to time.

(h)  Committee  means the Organization and Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other
committee of the Board as may be designated by the Board from time to time to administer the Plan.

(i)  Corporation  means Bank One Corporation, a Delaware Corporation, and its successors.

(j)  Director  means a director serving on the Board who is not also an employee of the
Corporation or any subsidiary or affiliate thereof.  Director  shall also include a director
serving on the board of directors of any subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation, provided that
(i)
the director is not also an employee of the Corporation or any subsidiary or affiliate thereof, and
(ii) the Board has approved adoption of the Plan by the applicable subsidiary or affiliate.

3 

(k)  Fair Market Value  means the closing price of Common Stock as listed on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape for the trading day immediately preceding the applicable
valuation date (or, if no closing price is listed for Common Stock on such date, the next
immediately preceding date for which a closing price is listed).

(l)  Option  means an option to purchase Shares awarded under Section 9. Such option shall not
be required or construed to satisfy the requirements of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, or any successor law.

(m)  Optionee  means a Director to whom an Option has been granted or, in the event of such
Director s death prior to the expiration of an Option, such Director s executor, administrator,
beneficiary or similar person.

(n)  Plan  means the Bank One Corporation Director Stock Plan, as amended and restated from
time to time.

(o)  Plan Year  means the twelve-month period from April 1 to March 31.

(p)  Share  means a share of common stock, $.01 par value per share, of the Corporation.

(q)  Stock Unit  means the right to receive a Share on a date elected by the Director pursuant
to rules established by the Committee, as well as such dividend or dividend equivalent rights as
may be permitted hereunder.

3. Eligibility 

Directors shall be eligible to participate in the Plan in accordance with Sections 7, 8, 9 and
10 hereof.

4. Plan Administration 

(a)  Administrator of Plan.  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.

(b)  Authority of Committee.  The Committee shall have the sole and exclusive authority and
discretion to (i) interpret and construe the Plan and Award Summaries; (ii) adopt such rules and
procedures as it shall deem necessary and advisable to implement and administer the Plan; and (iii)
designate persons other than members of the Committee to carry out its responsibilities, subject to
such limitations, restrictions and conditions as the Committee, in its best judgment, may determine
to be in the Corporation s best interests and in accordance with the purposes of the Plan.

(c)  Determination of Committee.  A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum at any
meeting of the Committee, and all determinations of the Committee shall be made by a majority of
its members. The Committee may make determinations under the Plan without prior notice and without
a meeting, provided that such determination is made by written consent signed by all members of the
Committee.

(d)  Effect of Committee Determinations.  No member of the Committee or the Board shall be
personally liable for any action or determination with respect to the Plan, an
Award, or the settlement of a dispute between a Director and the Corporation, provided that such
action or determination is made in good faith. Any decision or action of the Committee or the Board
with respect to any Award or the administration or interpretation of the Plan shall be conclusive
and binding upon all persons.

4 

5. Shares Subject to the Plan 

Subject to adjustments as provided in Section 15, the aggregate number of Shares which may be
issued pursuant to Awards shall not exceed 1,620,000 Shares. To the extent that Shares subject to
an outstanding Option are not issued or delivered by reason of the expiration, termination,
cancellation or forfeiture of such Option or by reason of the delivery of Shares to pay all or a
portion of the exercise price of such Option, such Shares shall again be available for issuance
under the Plan.

6. Awards under the Plan 

Awards in the form of Shares or Stock Units shall be granted to Directors in accordance with
Section 7. Awards in the form of Shares, Stock Units or Options may be granted to Directors in
accordance with Section 8, 9 or 10, as applicable. Each Award granted under Section 8, 9 or 10
shall be evidenced by an Award Summary. Delivery of an Award Summary shall constitute an agreement,
subject to Section 3 and Section 12, between the Corporation and the Director as to the terms and
conditions of the Award.

7. Annual Stock Retainer 

Each Director shall annually receive an Award hereunder in the form of either Shares or Stock
Units, subject to the following terms and conditions:

(a)  Election of Shares or Stock Units.  Each Director shall be permitted to elect to receive
the Award described under this Section 7 in the form of either Shares or Stock Units. Such election
must be made by the date established by the Committee prior to the start of the Plan Year for which
the election applies. In the absence of such election, the Award shall be granted in the form of
Shares. Each Director s election shall remain in effect and be applicable with respect to each
quarterly grant of the Stock Retainer made for any Plan Year. Such election shall remain in effect
and be applicable to quarterly payments made in subsequent Plan Years, unless the Director files a
revised election pursuant to this Section 7(a).

In the event a Director is first appointed to the Board after the date established by the
Committee for the filing of elections, the quarterly Award of the Director s Annual Stock Retainer
for the quarter in which the Director is appointed (prorated as described in Section 7(c)) shall be
made in the form of Shares. The Director may submit a written election to receive the remaining
quarterly Awards of the Annual Stock Retainer for the Plan Year in the form of Stock Units by a
date prior to the start of the next following quarter and within a period following his or her
appointment to the Board determined by the Committee or its designee to be necessary to avoid
constructive receipt or to comply with applicable law.

(b)  Time of Grant.  An Award of Shares or Stock Units representing each Director s annual
stock retainer shall be made each calendar quarter during the Plan Year to coincide with quarterly
payment of the Director s Annual Cash Retainer. The number of Shares or Stock Units subject to such
Award shall be determined as provided in Section 7(c) below. In the case of a Director who is
appointed to the Board following the start of a calendar quarter, the Director shall be granted, as
of the effective date as of which such Director is first appointed to the Board, his or her annual
stock retainer, as prorated in the manner described in Section 7(c) below.

5 

(c)  Number of Shares.  The number of Shares or Stock Units granted each calendar quarter
pursuant to this Section 7 shall be equal to (i) 25% of the Director s Annual Cash Retainer
(excluding for this purpose any additional chairperson retainer(s)), divided by (ii) the Fair
Market Value per share of Bank One common stock as of the Award Grant Date described in paragraph
(b) above (increased to the next whole number in case of any fraction). In the case of a Director
who is appointed to the Board following the start of a calendar quarter, the number of Shares or
Stock Units granted for such quarter shall be calculated in the manner described in the previous
sentence, except that (A) the Fair Market Value per share of Bank One common stock under part (ii)
above shall be determined using the date the Director is appointed to the Board as the valuation
date, and (B) the number of Shares or Stock Units granted shall be prorated based upon the number
of months of the calendar quarter during which such Director will serve on the Board, with any part
of a calendar month counting as a whole month.

8 . Elective Shares and Stock Units in Lieu of Annual Cash Retainer 

Each Director may elect to receive an Award of Shares, Stock Units or a combination thereof as
payment of such Director s Annual Cash Retainer (or a portion thereof) , subject to the following
terms and conditions:

(a)  Time of Grant.  As of each date on which a quarterly portion of a Director s Annual Cash
Retainer would otherwise be paid, an Award shall be granted to each Director who has filed with the
Committee or its designee a written election to receive such Award in lieu of all or a portion of
such quarterly payment of his or her Annual Cash Retainer. Such election must be filed in advance
of the start of the Plan Year in which such quarterly payment is made, on or before a date
established by the Committee as necessary to avoid the constructive receipt of income by the
Director for tax purposes and to comply with any applicable law. Each Director s election shall
remain in effect and be applicable with respect to each quarterly payment of an Annual Cash
Retainer made for any Plan Year for which a Director has made an election to receive an Award under
this Section 8(a) and in subsequent Plan Years, unless the Director files a revised election
pursuant to this Section 8(a). A revised election may only be made on or before a date prior to the
start of the Plan Year for which it is being made, such date to be established by the Committee or
its designee to avoid the constructive receipt of income by the Director for tax purposes and to
comply with any applicable law.

In the event a Director does not file a written election in accordance with this Section 8(a)
by reason of becoming a Director after the date established by the Committee for the filing of
elections (as described above), an Award may be granted to such Director as of a day following the
Director s submission of a written election to receive such Award in lieu of all or a portion of
such Director s Annual Cash Retainer. Such election must be submitted in accordance with rules
established by the Committee or its designee and as of a date determined to be necessary to avoid
constructive receipt of income by the Director and to comply with any applicable law. The Committee
may, in its sole discretion, limit an election made pursuant to the preceding sentence to only a
fraction of a quarterly payment of such Director s Annual Cash Retainer, the numerator of which is
the number of months during the applicable calendar quarter during which such Director will serve
on the Board, with any part of a calendar month counting as a whole month, and the denominator of
which is 3. In addition, a Director appointed to the Board following the start of a calendar
quarter during a Plan Year may not elect to receive Stock Units in lieu of his or her Cash Retainer
for such first quarter of service; provided however, that the Director may elect to receive Stock
Units in lieu of his or her Cash Retainer for subsequent calendar quarters. An election made
pursuant to the this paragraph shall be irrevocable during the remainder of the first Plan Year in
which the Director receives an Award hereunder.

6 

(b)  Number of Shares and/or Stock Units.  The number of Shares and/or Stock Units subject to an
Award granted pursuant to Section 8(a) shall be equal to the amount of the Annual Cash Retainer
that a Director has elected pursuant to Section 8(a) to be payable in Shares or Stock Units,
divided by the Fair Market Value per share of Bank One common stock as of the Award Grant Date
described in paragraph 7(c) above (increased to the next whole number in case of any fraction).

(c)  Dividends Paid on Stock Units.  While Stock Units remain outstanding, the Director who has
received such Stock Units as of the applicable record date shall receive, as of each date on which
the Corporation pays a cash dividend on outstanding Shares, additional Stock Units equal in number
to:

(1) the product of:

(A) 
       
     the amount of the cash dividend declared by the Corporation for each
outstanding Share of the Corporation, and 

(B) 
       
     the number of Stock Units credited to the Director and still outstanding, 

divided by:

(2) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the cash dividend is paid.

Such additional Stock Units shall be issued as Shares at the same time and in the same manner
as the underlying Stock Units to which they are attributable.

(d)  Distribution of Stock Units.  Upon a date elected by a Director who receives an Award of
Stock Units under subparagraph (c) above, the Director will receive one (1) Share for each Stock
Unit, including any fractional Stock Units thereof. In the event of a Director s death prior to the
issuance of Shares attributable to Stock Units, such Shares shall become distributable in
accordance with Section 14 below.

9. Discretionary Awards 

In addition to any Awards granted under Section 7 or 8, the Board, in its sole discretion, may
approve Awards of Options, Shares or Stock Units to one or more Directors in any calendar year in
recognition of additional services provided to the Board or the Corporation or as a special grant
to all Directors, subject to the following terms:

(a)  Shares and Stock Units.  The number of shares subject to an award of Shares and/or Stock
Units shall be determined by the Board. In the event that Stock Units are awarded, the Director
will be eligible to receive additional Stock Units as described in Section 8(c), and he or she may
make an election to receive a distribution in accordance with Section 8(d).

(b)  Number and Purchase Price of Options.  The number of Shares subject to an Option granted
shall be determined by the Board. The purchase price per Share under each Option granted shall not
be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share determined using the Award Grant Date as the
valuation date.

(c)  Exercise of Options.  Each Option shall be fully exercisable on and after the date which is
six (6) months after the Award Grant Date and, subject to Section 11 shall not be exercisable prior
to such date.
An Option may be exercised until the earlier of the date which is: (i) ten (10) years after the
Award Grant Date of such Option; or (ii) two (2) years from the date
the Optionee s service on the Board ends as a result of retirement or death. An Option, or portion
thereof, may be exercised, in whole or in part, only with respect to whole Shares.

7 

Shares shall be issued to an Optionee pursuant to the exercise of an Option only upon receipt
by the Corporation from the Optionee of payment in full either in cash or by submitting acceptable
proof to the Committee of the ownership of Shares which have been owned by the Optionee for at
least six (6) months prior to the date of exercise of the Option, or a combination of cash and
Shares, in an amount or having a combined value equal to the aggregate purchase price for the
Shares subject to the Option or portion thereof being exercised. The Shares issued to an Optionee
for the portion of any Option exercised by submitting proof of acceptable ownership of Shares shall
not exceed the number of Shares issuable as a result of such exercise (determined as though payment
in full therefor were being made in cash), less the number of Shares for which proof of ownership
is submitted. The value of Shares for which proof of ownership is submitted in full or partial
payment for the Shares purchased upon the exercise of an Option shall be equal to the Fair Market
Value of such previously-owned Shares on the date of the exercise of such Option.

(d)  Restorative Stock Options.  Options granted under this Section 9 may provide for the
subsequent grant of a restorative option where a Director exercises the original Option by
submitting acceptable proof to the Committee of the ownership of Shares which have been owned by
the Optionee for at least six (6) months prior to the date of exercise of the Option. The number of
Shares covered by the restorative option shall be equal to the number of previously-owned shares
submitted in the Option exercise, and the exercise price shall equal the Fair Market Value of Bank
One common stock on the date the Option is exercised. The restorative option shall be subject to
such other terms and conditions as are established by the Committee.

10. Transfers from Other Plans 

Stock Units shall be issued under the Plan in exchange for unfunded accounts transferred to
the Plan from the Bank One Corporation Director Deferred Compensation Plan or other director
compensation programs maintained by the Corporation, its subsidiaries and affiliates or their
predecessor, successor and/or acquired entities. The number of Stock Units awarded shall be
determined by dividing the dollar amount being transferred to the Plan by the Fair Market Value of
one (1) Share as of the date of transfer, and additional Stock Units shall be payable to the
Director in accordance with Section 8(c). One (1) Share shall become distributable for each Stock
Unit awarded under this Section 10 in accordance with Section 8(d). Transfers and elections under
this Section 10 shall be made in accordance with rules established by the Committee or its designee
in order to avoid the constructive receipt of taxable income by Directors and to comply with
applicable law.

11. Issuance of Shares 

Upon the grant of an Award of Shares to a Director, the Shares subject to such Award shall be
issued to the Director or his nominee, as the Director shall designate, whereupon the Director
shall become a stockholder of the Corporation with respect to such Shares and shall be entitled to
vote the Shares.

12. Non-Transferability of Options and Stock Units 

Options and Stock Units granted under the Plan shall not be transferable by a Director during
his or her lifetime and may not be assigned, exchanged, pledged, transferred or otherwise
encumbered or disposed of except by court order, will or by the laws of descent and distribution.

8 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the provisions of Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, allow Options to be transferable, each Option then outstanding shall
become transferable only to the extent set forth under the terms of each Award, as determined by
the Committee. In the event that any Option is thereafter transferred as permitted by the preceding
sentence, the permitted transferee thereof shall be deemed the Optionee hereunder, notwithstanding
the provisions of subparagraph (l) of Section 2 above. Options shall be exercisable during the
Optionee s lifetime only by the Optionee or by the Optionee s guardian, legal representative or
similar person (except in the case of the death of the Director where the Option provides for
post-death exercise).

13. Change of Control 

Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, any and all outstanding Options shall become
immediately exercisable, and all Stock Units shall become distributable in Shares.

14. Payments to Beneficiaries. 

Each Director may designate a beneficiary to receive Awards under the Plan in the event of the
death of the Director, as provided under the terms of each Award. In the event that a Director dies
before designating a beneficiary, the Director s beneficiary shall be his surviving spouse, if any.
If there is no surviving spouse, the Director s beneficiary shall be his estate.

15. Amendment and Termination 

The Board may amend the Plan from time to time or terminate the Plan at any time; provided,
however, than no action authorized by this Section 15 shall adversely change the terms and
conditions of an outstanding Option or Stock Unit without the Optionee s consent, other than to
comply with changes in applicable laws and regulations.

16. Recapitalization 

The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock as to which Awards may be granted to Directors,
the number of shares thereof covered by each outstanding Award, and the price per share thereof in
each such Award, shall all be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the total
number of Shares issued by the Corporation resulting from a subdivision or consolidation of Shares
or other capital adjustment, or the payment of a stock dividend or other increase or decrease in
the number of such Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Corporation, or other
change in corporate or capital structure; provided, however, that any fractional Shares resulting
from any such adjustment shall be eliminated. The Committee may also make the foregoing changes and
any other changes, including changes in the classes of securities available, to the extent it is
deemed necessary or desirable to preserve the intended benefits of the Plan for the Corporation and
the Directors in the event of any other reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation,
spin-off, extraordinary dividend or other distribution or similar transaction.

17. Governing Law 

To the extent that federal laws do not otherwise control, the Plan shall be construed in
accordance with and governed by the law of the State of Delaware.

18. Savings Clause 

This Plan is intended to comply in all aspects with applicable law and regulation, including,
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. If
any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under
applicable law and regulation (including Rule 16b-3), the validity, legality and enforceability of
the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby, and the invalid,
illegal or unenforceable provision shall be deemed null and void; provided however, that, to the
extent permissible by law, any provision which could be deemed null and void shall first be
construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Plan to be construed in compliance
with all applicable laws (including Rule 16b-3) so as to foster the intent of this Plan.

9 

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.12>
 11
 y74757exv10w12.htm
 EX-10.12: BANK ONE CORPORATION STOCK PERFORMANCE PLAN

EX-10.12 

Exhibit 10.12 

BANK ONE CORPORATION 
STOCK PERFORMANCE PLAN 
As Amended and Restated Effective February 20, 2001 

1 

BANK ONE CORPORATION 
STOCK PERFORMANCE PLAN 
As Amended and Restated Effective February 20, 2001 

1. Purpose and History 

The purpose of the BANK ONE CORPORATION Stock Performance Plan (the  Plan ) is to provide
incentives and rewards for selected employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries (i) to
support the execution of the Corporation s business and human resources strategies and the
achievement of its goals and (ii) to associate the interests of Employees with those of the
Corporation s stockholders. The Plan was originally approved by the stockholders of First Chicago
NBD Corporation on May 10, 1996, assumed by Bank One Corporation on October 2, 1998 and
subsequently amended from time to time. The Plan as set forth herein is an amendment and
restatement, effective February 20, 2001, of the Bank One Corporation Stock Performance Plan.

2. Definitions 

(a) 
       
      Award  includes, without limitation, stock options (including
incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code), stock
appreciation rights, performance share or unit awards, dividend or
equivalent rights, stock awards, restricted share or unit awards, or
other awards that are valued in whole or part by reference to, or are
otherwise based on, the Corporation s Common Stock ( other Common
Stock-based Awards ), all on a stand alone, combination or tandem
basis, as described in or granted under this Plan. 

(b) 
       
      Award Summary  means a written summary setting forth the terms and
conditions of each Award made under this Plan. 

(c) 
       
      Board  means the Board of Directors of the Corporation, excluding any
member who is an officer or Employee of the Corporation or who
otherwise would not be considered a  Non-Employee Director  within the
meaning of Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

(d) 
       
      Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 

(e) 
       
      Committee  means the Organization, Compensation and Nominating
Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as may be
designated by the Board from time to time to administer this Plan. 

(f) 
       
      Common Stock  means the Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation. 

(g) 
       
      Corporation  means BANK ONE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation. 

(h) 
       
      Employee  means an employee of BANK ONE CORPORATION or a Subsidiary. 

(i) 
       
      Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

(j) 
       
      Fair Market Value  means the closing price of Common Stock as listed
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape for the
trading day immediately preceding the valuation date (or, if no
closing price is listed for Common Stock on such date, the next
immediately preceding date for which a closing price is listed);
provided, however, that the Committee may modify the definition of
Fair Market Value with respect to any particular Award. 

2 

(k) 
       
      Participant  means an Employee who has been granted an Award under the Plan. 

(l) 
       
      Plan  means the BANK ONE CORPORATION Stock Performance Plan. 

(m) 
       
      Plan Year  means a twelve-month period beginning with January 1 of each year. 

(n) 
       
      Subsidiary  means any corporation or other entity, whether domestic
or foreign, in which the Corporation has or obtains, directly or
indirectly, an ownership interest of at least 50% by reason of stock
ownership or otherwise. 

3. Eligibility 

Any Employee selected by the Committee is eligible to receive an Award. In addition, the
Committee may select those former Employees who have a consulting arrangement with the Corporation
or a Subsidiary whom the Committee determines have a significant responsibility for the success and
future growth and profitability of the Corporation.

4. Plan Administration 

(a) 
       
     Except as otherwise determined by the Board, the Plan shall be
administered by the Committee. The Board, or the Committee to the
extent determined by the Board, shall periodically make determinations
with respect to the participation of Employees in the Plan and, except
as otherwise required by law or this Plan, the grant terms of Awards
including vesting schedules, price, length of relevant performance,
restriction or option period, dividend rights, post-retirement and
termination rights, payment alternatives such as cash, stock,
contingent awards or other means of payment consistent with the
purposes of this Plan, and such other terms and conditions as the
Board or the Committee deems appropriate. 

(b) 
       
     The Committee shall have authority to interpret and construe the
provisions of the Plan and the Award Summaries and to make
determinations pursuant to any Plan provision or Award Summary. Any
such interpretation or determination shall be final and binding on all
parties. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action or
determination made in good faith, and the members shall be entitled to
indemnification and reimbursement in the manner provided in the
Corporation s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as it may be
amended from time to time. 

(c) 
       
     The Committee may designate persons other than its members to carry
out its responsibilities under such conditions or limitations as it
may set, other than its authority with regard to Awards granted to
Employees who are officers or directors of the Corporation for
purposes of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 

(d) 
       
     The Committee shall have the authority at any time prior to a Change
of Control (as defined in Section 12 below) to cancel Awards for
reasonable cause and to provide for the conditions and circumstances
under which Awards shall be forfeited. 

5. Stock Subject to the Provisions of this Plan 

(a) 
       
     The stock subject to the provisions of this Plan shall be shares of
authorized but unissued Common Stock and shares of Common Stock held
as treasury stock, subject to adjustment in accordance with the
provisions of Section 10, and subject to Section 5(b) below, the total
number of shares of Common Stock available for grants of Awards in any
Plan Year shall not exceed 2% of the outstanding
Common Stock as reported in the Corporation? Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ending immediately prior to such Plan Year. 

3 

(b) 
       
     There shall be available for Awards under the Plan in any Plan Year,
in addition to shares available for grant under paragraph (a) of this
Section 5, all of the following: (i) any unused portion of the limit
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 5 for any prior Plan Year;
(ii) shares represented by Awards which are canceled, surrendered,
forfeited, terminated, paid in cash or expire unexercised; (iii) the
excess amount of variable Awards which become fixed at less than their
maximum limitations; (iv) any shares of Common Stock that are used to
pay the purchase price or any withholding taxes associated therewith
upon the exercise of an option, to the extent such shares result in
the grant of a replacement option; provided, however, that the total
number of shares of Common Stock which may be available for Awards
under the Plan Year may not exceed 5% of the outstanding Common Stock
as reported in the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ending immediately prior to the applicable Plan Year. 

(c) 
       
     The exercise of an option or stock appreciation right granted in
tandem therewith will reduce proportionately the number of shares
subject to the tandem stock appreciation right or option. In addition,
any shares ceasing to be subject to the related option or right
because of such reduction shall not increase the number of shares of
Common Stock available for future Awards granted under the Plan. The
grant of a performance or restricted share unit Award shall be deemed
to be equal to the maximum number of shares which may be issued under
the Award. Where the value of an Award is variable on the date it is
granted, the value shall be deemed to be the maximum limitation of the
Award. Awards payable solely in cash will not reduce the number of
shares available for Awards granted under the Plan. 

6. Awards Under this Plan 

As the Board or Committee may determine, the following types of Awards and other Common
Stock-based Awards may be granted under this Plan on a stand alone, combination or tandem basis:

(a) 
       
      Stock Option.  A right to buy a specified number of shares of Common
Stock at a fixed exercise price during a specified time, all as the
Committee may determine; provided that the exercise price of any
option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the
Common Stock on the date of grant of such Award; provided further that
no more than 10,000,000 stock options and stock appreciation rights in
the aggregate (except that a stock option issued in tandem with a
stock appreciation right shall be counted as one stock option for
purposes of this maximum) may be granted to any Employee during any
five-year period. 

(b) 
       
      Incentive Stock Option.  An Award in the form of a stock option
which shall comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or
any successor Section of the Code as it may be amended from time to
time. Subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of
Section 10, the aggregate number of shares which may be subject to
incentive stock option Awards under this Plan shall not exceed
16,200,000 shares, subject in any Plan Year to the limitations of
Section 5 of this Plan. 

(c) 
       
      Stock Appreciation Right.  A right to receive the excess of the Fair
Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the stock
appreciation right is exercised over the Fair Market Value of a share
of Common Stock on the date the stock appreciation right was granted;
provided that no more than 10,000,000 stock options and stock
appreciation rights in the aggregate (except that a stock appreciation
right issued in tandem with a stock option shall be counted as one
stock option for purposes of this maximum) may be granted to any
Participant during any five-year period. 

(d) 
       
      Restricted and Performance Share.  A transfer of Common Stock to a
Participant, subject to such restrictions on transfer or other
incidents of ownership, or subject to specified performance
standards, for such periods of time as the Committee may determine; provided that no more than
5,000,000 performance shares (determined based upon the maximum number of shares of Common
Stock that may be earned) may be granted to any Employee during any five-year period. 

4 

(e) 
       
      Restricted and Performance Share Unit.  A fixed or variable share or
dollar-denominated unit subject to conditions of vesting, performance
and time of payment as the Committee may determine, which are valued
at the Committee s discretion in whole or in part by reference to, or
otherwise based on, the Fair Market Value of Common Stock and which
may be paid in Common Stock, cash or a combination of both. 

(f) 
       
      Dividend or Equivalent Right.  A right to receive dividends or their
equivalent in value in Common Stock, cash or in a combination of both
with respect to any new or previously existing Award. 

(g) 
       
      Stock Award.  An unrestricted transfer of ownership of Common Stock
which may only be made to Employees other than Employees who are
officers or directors of the Corporation for purposes of Section 16 of
the Exchange Act. 

(h) 
       
      Other Stock-Based Awards . Other Common Stock-based Awards which are
related to or serve a similar function to those Awards set forth in
this Section 6. 

No Common Stock shall be issued pursuant to any Award unless consideration at least equal to
the par value thereof has been received by the Corporation in the form of cash, services rendered
or property.

The Committee may from time to time, establish performance criteria with respect to an Award.
The performance criteria or standards may be based upon (i) earnings per share, (ii) return on
average assets or (iii) return on average equity. Performance standards shall be determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion and may be absolute in their terms or measured against or in
relationship to other companies comparably, similarly or otherwise situated and may be based on or
adjusted for any other objective goals, events, or occurrences established by the Committee,
including earnings, earnings growth, revenues, expenses, stock price, market share, charge-offs,
loan loss reserves, reductions in non-performing assets, return on assets, return on equity or
return on investment, regulatory compliance, satisfactory internal or external audits, improvement
or financial ratings, achievement of balance sheet or income statement objectives, extraordinary
charges, losses from discontinued operations, restatements and accounting changes and other
unplanned special charges such as restructuring expenses, acquisition expenses including goodwill,
unplanned stock offerings and strategic loan loss provisions. Such performance standards may be
particular to a line of business, subsidiary or other unit or may be based on the performance of
the Corporation generally.

7. Award Summaries 

Each Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Summary. Delivery of an Award Summary
to each Participant shall constitute an agreement, subject to Section 4(d) and Section 9 hereof,
between the Corporation and the Participant as to the terms and conditions of the Award.

8. Other Terms and Conditions 

(a) 
       
      Assignability.  Except to the extent permitted by Rule 16b-3 under
the Exchange Act, or Section 422 of the Code, and as otherwise
provided in the Award Summary, no Award shall be assignable or
transferable except by will, the laws of descent and distribution or
pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined under the
Code, and during the lifetime of a Participant, the Award shall be
exercisable only by the Participant or such Participant s guardian, legal representative or
assignee under a qualified domestic relations order. In the event that any Award is
transferred as permitted by the preceding sentence, the permitted transferee thereof shall be
deemed the Award recipient hereunder. Stock options, incentive stock options and stock
appreciation rights shall be exercisable during the transferee s lifetime only by the Award
recipient or by the Award recipient s guardian, legal representative or similar person.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective May 15, 2001, Awards under the Plan shall not be
assignable pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, nor shall an assignee under a
qualified domestic relations order have any right to exercise an Award hereunder. 

5 

(b) 
       
      Termination of Employment.  The Committee shall determine the
disposition of the grant of each Award in the event of the retirement,
disability, death or other termination of a Participant s employment. 

(c) 
       
      Rights As A Stockholder.  A Participant shall have no rights as a
stockholder with respect to shares covered by an Award until the date
the Participant or his nominee, or guardian or legal representative
becomes the holder of record. No adjustment will be made for dividends
or other rights for which the record date is prior to such date. 

(d) 
       
      No Obligation To Exercise.  The grant of an Award shall impose no
obligation upon Participant to exercise the Award. 

(e) 
       
      Payments By Participants.  The Committee may determine that Awards
for which a payment is due from a Participant may be payable: (i) in
U.S. dollars by personal check, bank draft or money order payable to
the order of the Corporation, by money transfers or direct account
debits; (ii) through the delivery or deemed delivery based on
attestation to the ownership of shares of Common Stock with a Fair
Market Value equal to the total payment due from the Participant;
(iii) by a combination of the methods described in (i) and (ii) above;
or (iv) by such other methods as the Committee may deem appropriate. 

(f) 
       
      Withholding.  Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, (i) the
deduction of withholding and any other taxes required by law will be
made from all amounts paid in cash and (ii) in the case of payments of
Awards in shares of Common Stock, the Participant shall be required to
pay the amount of any taxes required to be withheld prior to receipt
of such stock, or alternatively, a number of shares the Fair Market
Value of which equals the amount required to be withheld may be
deducted from the payment. The Committee may provide for shares of
Common Stock to be withheld for tax withholding purposes in excess of
the required minimum amount but not in excess of a Participant s
maximum marginal tax rate. 

(g) 
       
      Restrictions on Sale and Exercise.  With respect to Employees who
are officers and directors of the Corporation for purposes of Section
16 of the Exchange Act, and if required to comply with rules
promulgated thereunder, (i) no Award providing for exercise, a vesting
period, a restriction period or the attainment of performance
standards shall permit unrestricted ownership of Common Stock by the
Participant for at least six months from the date of grant, and (ii)
Common Stock acquired pursuant to this Plan (other than Common Stock
acquired as a result of the granting of a  derivative security  may
not be sold for at least six months after acquisition. 

(h) 
       
      Designation of Beneficiaries.  Effective May 15, 2001, a Participant
may designate a beneficiary to receive outstanding Awards upon the
Participant s death. If a Participant fails to designate a
beneficiary, Awards that are outstanding at the time of the
Participant s death shall be transferred to the Participant s
surviving spouse (to the extent the Awards do not expire upon the
Participant s death). If the Participant does not have a surviving
spouse, Awards shall be transferred to the Participant s estate. 

6 

9. Amendments 

The Board may amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan at any time, and prior to a Change of
Control (as defined in Section 12(b)) amend any or all Award Summaries granted under the Plan to
the extent permitted by law. Any such action of the Board may be taken without the approval of the
Corporation s stockholders, but only to the extent that such stockholder approval is not required
by applicable law or regulation, including specifically Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

10. Recapitalization 

The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock as to which Awards may be granted to
Participants, the number of shares thereof covered by each outstanding Award, and the price per
share thereof in each such Award, shall all be proportionately adjusted for any increase or
decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a subdivision or
consolidation of shares or other capital adjustment, or the payment of a stock dividend or other
increase or decrease in such shares, effected without receipt of consideration by the Corporation,
or other change in corporate or capital structure; provided, however, that any fractional shares
resulting from any such adjustment shall be eliminated. The Committee may also make the foregoing
changes and any other changes, including changes in the classes of securities available, to the
extent it is deemed necessary or desirable to preserve the intended benefits of the Plan for the
Corporation and the Participants in the event of any other reorganization, recapitalization,
merger, consolidation, spinoff, extraordinary dividend or other similar transaction.

11. No Right to Employment 

No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the grant of an Award
shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the
Corporation or a Subsidiary. Further, the Corporation and each Subsidiary expressly reserve the
right at any time to dismiss a Participant free from any liability, or any claim under the Plan,
except as provided herein or in any Award Summary issued hereunder.

12. Change of Control 

(a) 
       
     A  Change of Control  of the Corporation shall be deemed to have
occurred in accordance with the Change of Control definition and
standards adopted by the Board from time to time. 

(b) 
       
     The effect of a Change of Control on any and all Awards granted on or
after November 1, 2000 that are outstanding as of the date such Change
of Control occurs shall be set forth in the applicable Award
Summaries, as may be amended from time to time prior to the Change of
Control. 

(c) 
       
     Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan or any Award Summary to
the contrary, the effect of a Change of Control on any and all Awards
granted before November 1, 2000 shall be determined in accordance with
the terms of the Plan as in effect prior to November 1, 2000. 

13. Governing Law 

To the extent that federal laws do not otherwise control, the Plan shall be construed in
accordance with and governed by the law of the State of Delaware.

7 

14. Supplemental Plans 

The Board shall have the authority to adopt plans, supplemental to this Plan, covering
Employees residing outside the United States, including but not limited to the United Kingdom.

15. Savings Clause 

This Plan is intended to comply in all aspects with applicable law and regulation, including,
with respect to those Employees who are officers or directors for purposes of Section 16 of the
Exchange Act, Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission. In case any one or more of the
provisions of this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under
applicable law and regulation (including Rule 16b-3), the validity, legality and enforceability of
the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid,
illegal or unenforceable provision shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent
permissible by law, any provision which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed,
interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Plan to be construed in compliance with all
applicable laws (including Rule 16b-3) so as to foster the intent of this Plan.

16. Effective Date and Term 

The effective date of this Plan is May 10, 1996. The Plan shall remain in effect until May 10,
2006 or the date it is earlier terminated by the Board.

8 

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.13>
 12
 y74757exv10w13.htm
 EX-10.13: BANK ONE CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN

EX-10.13 

Exhibit 10.13 

BANK ONE CORPORATION  
  SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN  

As Amended and Restated Effective December 31, 2008 

1 

BANK ONE CORPORATION  
  SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN   
Amended and Restated Effective December 31, 2008

1.   Purpose   .  The purpose of the BANK ONE CORPORATION Supplemental Savings and
Investment Plan ( Supplemental Plan ) was to provide supplemental benefits to certain employees
described in Section 3 below of BANK ONE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation and any successors
thereto (the  Corporation ) and of its subsidiaries and related entities (each an  Employer 
collectively, the  Employers ) who were participants in the BANK ONE CORPORATION Savings and
Investment Plan ( SIP ) and whose ability to make contributions to the SIP was limited by operation
of Section 401(a)(17), 401(k)(3), 401(m), 402(g) or 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the  Code ) (which Code Sections, as used in this Supplemental Plan, shall include any
comparable section or sections of any future legislation that amend, supplement or supersede those
sections). This Supplemental Plan was an amendment and restatement of the First Chicago NBD
Corporation Supplemental Savings and Investment Plan ( FCN Supplemental Plan ) and the BANK ONE
CORPORATION 401(k) Restoration Plan (the  BOC Supplemental Plan ), and was intended to be the
Corporation s sole vehicle, effective January 1, 2000, for providing benefits that would otherwise
be provided under the SIP but for the aforementioned limitations of the Code. The rights and
benefits of any participant whose employment terminated prior to January 1, 2000 will be governed
by the terms of the FCN Supplemental Plan or the BOC Supplemental Plan, as applicable, as in effect
on the date of the participant s termination of employment.

Effective as of July 1, 2004, the Corporation merged into JPMorgan Chase   Co., and all
references herein to the Corporation shall mean, effective as of July 1, 2004, JPMorgan Chase   Co.
and all references to SIP shall mean, effective as of December 31, 2004, JPMorgan Chase 401(k)
Savings Plan. Allocations or credits to the accounts of the participants (other than investment
experience) under this Supplemental Plan ceased as of December 31, 2004. The Supplemental Plan has
separately accounted for any portion of a participant s account (and investment experience thereon)
that was not vested as of December 31, 2004 and has distributed those amounts subject to Section
409A of the Code as set forth herein in conformity with Section 409A of the Code. As specified
herein, if a Participant was partially or fully vested in his/her account balance as of December
31, 2004, the vested portion of such balance has been grandfathered and shall be distributed in
accordance with those sections herein not related Section 409A.

Pursuant to final and proposed Treasury Regulations and Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1
promulgated under Section 409A of the Code, the Supplemental Plan has been interpreted and operated
in good faith compliance with Section 409A through December 31, 2008. Effective December 31, 2008,
this Supplemental Plan has been amended to reflect changes in tax laws as mandated by Section 409A
of the Code. The Supplemental Plan prior to its amendment and restatement and employee
communications through December 31, 2008 shall constitute the plan for the interim period of good
faith compliance. All sections of the Supplemental Plan that apply to non-vested balances as of
December 31, 2004 shall be interpreted in such a manner as to comply with Section 409A.

2 

2.   Definitions   . 

(a) Unless the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term or phrase
used or defined in the SIP is similarly used or defined in the Supplemental Plan. The
masculine pronoun whenever used herein is deemed to include the feminine and the singular
shall be deemed to include the plural whenever the context requires.

(b)  Administrator  means the Administrator of the JPMorgan Chase 2005 Deferred
Compensation Plan.

(c)  Affiliate  has the meaning set forth in the JPMorgan Chase 2005 Deferred Compensation
Plan.

(d)  Separation from Service  has the meaning set forth in the JPMorgan Chase 2005 Deferred
Compensation Plan with respect to any allocations or credits to an account (including
investment experience thereon) of a participant that was not vested as of December 31,
2004.

(e)  Specified Employee  has the meaning set forth in the JPMorgan Chase 2005 Deferred
Compensation Plan.

(f) Effective as of July 1, 2004,  Committee  means the Administrator of the JPMorgan Chase
2005 Deferred Compensation Plan.

3.   Eligibility   .  Effective as of December 31, 2004, no individual who was not
otherwise participating in the Supplemental Plan on such date shall become a participant in this
Supplemental Plan. A participant in the FCN Supplemental Plan or the BOC Supplemental Plan on
December 31, 1999, who remains employed by an Employer on January 1, 2000, shall become a
participant hereunder, and his account under either such plan shall be transferred to and become
subject to the terms of the Supplemental Plan. Each other individual who, on or after January 1,
2000, is a participant in the SIP shall be eligible to participate in the Supplemental Plan if: (i)
he is a highly compensated employee (as defined under Code Section 414(q); and (ii) his
contributions to the SIP are limited because of the application of Section 401(a)(17), 401(k)(3),
401(m), 402(g) or 415 of the Code.

4.   Participation   .  Effective as of December 31, 2004, no individual who was not
otherwise participating in the Supplemental Plan on such date shall be become a participant in this
Supplemental Plan. An individual eligible to participate pursuant to Section 3 above shall
participate in the Supplemental Plan automatically pursuant to his election under the SIP and shall
participate in the same manner with the same rights and under the same terms and conditions as his
participation under the SIP, except as may otherwise be prescribed herein. The Committee or its
designee shall notify each participant of his automatic participation.

3 

5.   Supplemental Benefit   .  As of December 31, 2004, no further allocations or credits
(other than investment experience) have been made to the accounts of the participants. As of that
date, the account of a participant was separated into a vested portion and non-vested portion and
have been subject to separate recordkeeping. Prior to December 31, 2004, an allocation was made
to the Supplemental Plan account of a participant whenever the amount of Before-Tax Contributions
and/or Matching Contributions that would have otherwise been made under the SIP on his behalf was
limited by operation of Section 401(a)(17), 401(k)(3), 401(m), 402(g) or 415 of the Code. Such
allocation shall equal the amount of Before-Tax Contributions and/or Matching Contributions that
are so limited.

6.   Account Adjustments   .  A participant in the Supplemental Plan may make an election
to have his account treated as though it were invested in one of the available investment funds,
which shall be designated by the Plan Administrator from time to time. In the absence of such an
election, a participant s account shall be treated in accordance with a default election
established by the Plan Administrator for such cases. The frequency, timing and form of investment
reallocation directions and restrictions thereon shall be determined by the Plan Administrator.

7.   Distribution of Account Balances   Normal Form   .  Except as provided in Sections 8,
9, 10 or 11 below, a participant s account hereunder shall be distributed in cash in one lump sum
payment in the calendar year immediately following the close of the calendar year in which occurs
the participant s retirement date or effective date of termination of employment, provided that
with respect to any portion of a participant s account that was not vested as of December 31, 2004,
such portion , including investment experience thereon, shall be distributed in a lump sum in
January of the calendar year following a Separation from Service and except as may be otherwise
specifically provided, Sections 8, 9 or 10 has no application to such portion of a participant s
account.

8.   Optional Forms of Payment   .  The optional form of payment under this Section has no
application to the portion of any participant s account, including investment experience that was
not vested as of December 31, 2004. That amount shall be subject to payment under Section 7. For
any remaining portion of the account, instead of a lump sum payment under Section 7 above, a
participant may, by making a written election prior to the date his employment terminates in
accordance with rules established by the Committee, elect to have his account under the Plan paid
in the form of annual or more frequent installments over a period not less than three nor more than
fifteen years, commencing as soon as practicable after the close of the calendar year in which the
participant s retirement date or effective date of termination of employment occurs. The Committee
or its designee shall have complete discretion to establish, change or eliminate forms of
distribution and rules pertaining to the election and timing of such distributions.

9.   Survivor s Benefits   .  In the case of a participant s death before distribution of
his entire account balance under the Supplemental Plan, any remaining account balance will be
distributed to the participant s Designated Beneficiary in a lump sum as soon as practicable
following the participant s death, provided that any portion of a deceased participant s account
not vested as of December 31, 2004 (including investment experience) will
be distributed by the later of (i) the calendar year in which death occurs or (ii) the 15th day of
the third month following the date of death. If the participant has no Designated Beneficiary,
benefits under the Supplemental Plan shall be distributed to the surviving spouse of the
participant and, if not, married, the estate of the participant.

4 

10.   Disability Distribution   .  A participant who is disabled, within the meaning of
Code Section 401(k)(2)(B), may elect an immediate distribution of his account balance under the
Supplemental Plan; provided that the portion of a participant s account not vested as of
December 31, 2004 (including investment experience) will be distributed in accordance with Section
7.

11.   Specified Employee   .  With respect to any participant who is a Specified Employee
as of the date of his/her Separation from Service, the distribution of the portion of such
participant s account that was not vested as of December 31, 2004 (including investment experience)
will be distributed in a lump sum as of the date specified in Section 7 but not earlier than the
first of the month immediately following six full months from the date of such individual s
Separation from Service.

12.   No Right to Withdrawal or Receive Loans During Employment   .  Except as provided in
Sections 10 and 11 above, a participant hereunder shall have no right to receive any form of
distribution, including withdrawals or loans, from the Supplemental Plan prior to his/her
termination of employment with an Employer or in case of any portion of the account that was not
vested as of December 31, 2004 (including investment experience) prior to a Separation from
Service.

13.   Prohibition of Alienation   .  Except as to debts owing to the Corporation or any of
its subsidiaries, benefits under the Supplemental Plan may not be anticipated, alienated, assigned
or encumbered and any attempt to do so shall be void, provided that the exception as to debts owed
to the Corporation and its subsidiaries shall have no application to any portion of the account
that was not vested on December 31, 2004 (including investment experience).

14.   Administration   .  The Supplemental Plan shall be administered by the Committee in
its sole and absolute discretion, and its decision on any matter involving the administration and
interpretation of the Supplemental Plan (including, without limitation, all questions of
eligibility to participate in the Supplemental Plan, the right of any individual to receive
Supplemental Plan benefits and the amount and/or form of such benefits) shall be final and binding
on all parties; provided, however, that a Committee member may not take any action with respect to
any benefits payable to him under the Supplemental Plan unless he could take such action even if he
were not a Committee member. The Committee may delegate its duties under the Supplemental Plan to
the extent it deems necessary and appropriate.

15.   Amendment and Termination   .  The Corporation, by action of the Administrator, may
amend or terminate the Supplemental Plan in whole or in part at any time, retroactively or
prospectively; provided, however, that, except as may otherwise be required by law, no such
amendment to or termination of the Supplemental Plan shall reduce the amount of
the benefit to which a participant (or his Designated Beneficiary) is entitled under the
Supplemental Plan as of the date of such amendment or termination.

5 

16.   Financing of Supplemental Plan Benefits   .  Any benefits payable to a participant
under the Supplemental Plan shall be financed from the general assets of his Employer, and no
participant, or group of participants, shall acquire any claim upon any specific asset of an
Employer solely by reason of his being a participant in the Supplemental Plan. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the provisions of this section shall not prohibit the Corporation from transferring
assets to a grantor trust for the purpose of providing the benefits described hereunder, which
grantor trust shall remain subject to the claims of the Corporation s creditors.

17.   Expenses   .  All expenses of administering the Supplemental Plan shall be borne by
the Corporation.

18.   Benefits Intended for Select Group of Management or Highly Compensated Employees   . 
This Supplemental Plan was intended to be maintained primarily for the purpose of providing
deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees and shall be
interpreted and administered accordingly.

19.   Controlling Laws   .  To the extent not superseded by Federal law, the internal laws
of the state of New York (and not its laws of conflicts) shall be controlling in all matters
relating to the Supplemental Plan.

20.   Severability   .  The Supplemental Plan is intended to comply in all aspects with
applicable law and regulation. If any provision of the Supplemental Plan shall be held invalid,
illegal or unenforceable in any respect under applicable law and regulation, the validity, legality
and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired
thereby, and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision shall be deemed null and void;
provided however, that, to the extent permissible by law, any provision which could be deemed null
and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit the Supplemental
Plan to comply with all applicable laws.

21.   Records   .  All records held by the Corporation s Human Resources Department with
respect to an employee shall be binding upon everyone for purposes of the Supplemental Plan.

22.   Litigation by Participants or Other Persons   .  To the extent permitted by law, if a
legal action begun against the Corporation, its employees, its Board of Directors or any member
thereof, by or on behalf of any person results adversely to that person, or if a legal action
arises because of conflicting claims to a grant payable to a participant or beneficiary under the
Supplemental Plan, the cost to the Corporation or employee, Board or director thereof, of defending
the action will be charged to the extent possible to the sums, if any, that were involved in the
action or were payable to, or on account of, the participant or beneficiary concerned.

6 

23.   Indemnification   .  Any person who is or was a director, officer, or employee of the
Corporation and each member of the Board of Directors shall be indemnified and
saved harmless by the Corporation from and against any and all liability or claims of liability to
which such person may be subjected by reason of any act done or omitted to be done in good faith
with respect to the administration of the Supplemental Plan, including all expenses reasonably
incurred in the event that the Corporation fails to provide a defense.

24.   Rights to Employment   .  Participation in the Supplemental Plan shall not confer
upon any participant any right with respect to continued employment by the Corporation.

25.   Other Plans   .  Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Corporation from
establishing or maintaining other plans in which participants in the Supplemental Plan may also
participate.

7 

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.14>
 13
 y74757exv10w14.txt
 EX-10.14: BANC ONE CORPORATION 1989 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

EXHIBIT 10.14

REVISED AND RESTATED
                              BANC ONE CORPORATION
                            1989 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

SECTION 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Effective Date of Plan

        1.1 Establishment. BANC ONE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, (the
"Corporation") hereby establishes the "1989 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN" (the
"Plan")for key employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and for
directors of the Corporation who are not employees of the Corporation or any of
its subsidiaries. The Plan permits the grant of Director Stock Options to such
directors and the grant of Stock-Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted
Stock Awards, Performance Shares, and Performance Awards to such employees.

        1.2 Purpose. The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the
Corporation by encouraging and providing for the acquisition of an equity
interest in the Corporation by directors of the Corporation and key employees of
the Corporation and its subsidiaries and by enabling the Corporation to attract
and retain the services of such directors and key employees upon whose judgment,
interest, and special effort the successful conduct of its operations is largely
dependent.

        1.3 Effective Date. The Plan shall become effective as of January 18,
1989, the date of its adoption by the Board of Directors of the Corporation,
subject to ratification by the shareholders of the Corporation within twelve
months of the adoption date.

SECTION 2. Definitions

        2.1 Definitions. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have
their respective meanings set forth below:

        (a) "Award" means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted
Stock Awards, Performance Share, or Performance Award.

        (b) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.

        (c) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

        (d) "Committee" means the Committee of the Corporation's Board of
Directors which shall consist of two or more non-employee directors, within the
meaning set forth in Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
appointed by the Board.

        (e) "Corporation" means BANC ONE CORPORATION, a bank holding company
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 headquartered in Columbus, Ohio.

        (f) "Disability" means disability as determined by the Committee.

        (g) "Director Stock Option" means an Option granted to an Eligible
Director. Each Director Stock Option shall be a nonqualified stock option whose
grant is not intended to fall under the provisions of Section 422A of the Code.

        (h) "Eligible Director" means any statutory director of the Corporation
who is not an employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.

I-1

(i) "Fair Market Value" means the closing price of the Stock as reported
by the New York Stock Exchange on a particular date. In the event that there are
no Stock transactions on such date, the Fair Market Value shall be determined as
of the immediately preceding date on which there were Stock transactions.

        (j) "Option" means the right to purchase Stock at a stated price for a
specified period of time. For purposes of the Plan an Option, other than a
Director Stock Option, may be either (i) an incentive stock option within the
meaning of Section 422A of the Code or (ii) a nonqualified stock option whose
grant is intended not to fall under the provisions of Section 422A.

        (k) "Option Agreement" means an agreement entered into between the
Corporation and an employee or an Eligible Director in the form prescribed by
the Committee.

        (l) "Option Price" means the price at which each share of Stock subject
to an Option may be purchased, determined in accordance with Section 8.4 herein.

        (m) "Participant" means any individual, other than an Eligible Director,
designated by the Committee to participate in the Plan pursuant to Section 3.1
herein.

        (n) "Period of Restriction" means the period during which the transfer
of shares of Restricted Stock and/or Performance Shares is restricted pursuant
to Section 10 and/or Section 11 of the Plan.

        (o) "Performance Awards" means awards of cash granted to a Participant
pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan.

        (p) "Performance Objective" shall mean the performance measure(s) and
the achievement goals of the Corporation or one or more of its subsidiaries set
by the Committee.

        (q) "Performance Period" shall mean two or more successive fiscal years
of the Corporation with respect to which a Performance Share or Performance
Award may be earned pursuant to this Plan. Performance Periods shall begin with
the first day of the fiscal year in which a Performance Share or Performance
Award is granted. The length of a Performance Period shall be at the discretion
of the Committee. For each Performance Share and Performance Award, no more than
one Performance Period shall begin in any one fiscal year of the Corporation.

        (r) "Performance Shares" means Stock granted to a Participant pursuant
to Section 11 of the Plan. Each Performance Share shall be the equivalent of one
share of Stock.

        (s) "Restricted Stock" means Stock granted to a Participant pursuant to
Section 10 of the Plan.

        (t) "Restricted Stock Agreement" means an agreement entered into between
the Corporation and the Employee in the form prescribed by the Committee.

        (u) "Retirement," "Normal Retirement," and "Early Retirement" means
termination of employment as defined in the BANC ONE CORPORATION Retirement
Plan.

        (v) "Stock" means the common stock of the Corporation, without par
value.

        (w) "Stock Appreciation Right" and "SAR" means the right to receive a
cash payment from the Corporation equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value
of a share of Stock at the date of exercise over a specified price fixed by the
Committee which shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the
Stock on the date of grant. In the case of a Stock Appreciation Right which is
granted in conjunction with an Option, the specified price shall be the Option
exercise price.

I-2
 
        2.2 Gender and Number. Except when otherwise indicated by the context,
words in the masculine gender when used in the Plan shall include the feminine
gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the
singular.

SECTION 3. Eligibility and Participation

        3.1 Eligibility and Participation. Participants in the Plan shall be
selected by the Committee from among those employees of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries who are recommended for participation by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Corporation and who, in the opinion of the Committee, are in a
position to contribute materially to the Corporation's continued growth,
development, and long-term financial success. Persons serving on the Committee
shall not be eligible to be a Participant.

        3.2 Eligible Directors. Eligible Directors are entitled to participate
in the Plan solely with respect to the grant of Director Stock Options and may
not receive any other Award under the Plan. The selection of Eligible Directors
is not subject to the discretion of the Committee. Persons serving on the
Committee who are Eligible Directors may receive grants of Director Stock
Options.

SECTION 4. Administration

        4.1 Administration. The Committee shall be responsible for the
administration of the Plan. The Committee, by majority action thereof, is
authorized to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and
regulations relating to the Plan, to provide for conditions and assurances
deemed necessary or advisable to protect the interests of the Corporation, and
to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration
of the Plan, but only to the extent not contrary to the explicit provisions of
the Plan. Determinations, interpretations, or other actions made or taken by the
Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding and
conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons whomsoever.

SECTION 5. Stock Subject to Plan

        5.1 Number. The total number of shares of Stock subject to issuance
under the Plan may not exceed six million three hundred thousand (6,300,000)
subject to adjustment upon occurrence of any of the events indicated in
Subsection 5.3. Of this total number, up to six million (6,000,000) shares of
Stock may be granted in Restricted Stock or in common stock as a payout medium
to Participants under the Plan and up to three hundred thousand (300,000) shares
may be issued pursuant to the exercise of Director Stock Options. The shares to
be delivered under the Plan may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized but
unissued Stock or issued stock reacquired and held as treasury Stock not
reserved for any other purpose.

        5.2 Unused Stock. In the event any shares of Stock that are subject to
an Option which, for any reason, expires or is terminated unexercised as to such
shares, or any shares of Stock subject to a Restricted Stock or Performance
Share grant made under the Plan are reacquired by the Corporation pursuant to
the Plan, such shares again shall become available for issuance under the Plan
except as provided in Section 9.4.

        5.3 Adjustment in Capitalization. In the event that subsequent to the
date of adoption of the Plan by the Board the shares of Stock should as a result
of a stock split, stock dividend, combination or exchange of shares, exchange
for other securities, reclassification, reorganization, redesignation, merger,
consolidation, recapitalization or other such change, be increased or decreased
or changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares of Stock
or other securities of the Corporation or of another corporation, then (a) there
shall automatically be substituted for each share of Stock subject to an
unexercised Option (in whole or in part) granted under the Plan and each share
of Stock available for additional grants of Options under the Plan the number
and kind of shares of Stock or other securities into which each outstanding
share of Stock shall be changed or for which each such shares shall be
exchanged, (b) the Option Price shall

I-3
 
be increased or decreased proportionately so that the aggregate purchase price
for the securities subject to the Option shall remain the same as immediately
prior to such event and (c) the Board shall make such other adjustments to the
securities subject to Options and the provisions of the Plan and Option
Agreements as may be appropriate and equitable. Any such adjustment may provide
for the elimination of fractional shares. In such event, the Committee also
shall have discretion to make appropriate adjustments in the number and type of
shares subject to Restricted and Performance Share grants then outstanding under
the Plan pursuant to the terms of such grants or otherwise.

SECTION 6. Stock Appreciation Rights Subject to Plan

        6.1 Unexercised Rights. In the event any Stock Appreciation Rights
expire unexercised, such Stock Appreciation Rights again shall become available
for issuance under the Plan.

        6.2 Adjustment in Capitalization. In the event of any change in the
outstanding shares of Stock that occurs after ratification of the Plan by the
shareholders of the Corporation by reason of a Stock dividend or split,
recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination, exchange of shares, or
other similar corporate change, the Committee shall make appropriate adjustments
in the number of outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights and the related grant
values.

SECTION 7. Duration of Plan

        The Plan shall remain in effect, subject to the Board's right to earlier
terminate the Plan pursuant to Section 16 hereof, until all Stock subject to it
shall have been purchased or acquired pursuant to the provisions hereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted
Stock, Performance Share or Performance Award may be granted under the Plan on
or after the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Plan's effective date.

SECTION 8. Stock Options

        8.1 Grant of Options Other than Director Stock Options. Subject to the
provisions of Sections 5 and 7, Options other than Director Stock Options may be
granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined
by the Committee. The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining
the number of Options granted to each Participant. The Committee also shall
determine, whether an Option is to be an incentive stock option within the
meaning of Code Section 422A, or a nonqualified stock option whose grant is
intended not to fall within the provisions of Section 422A. However, in no event
shall the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the date of grant) of the
stock for which incentive stock options are first exercisable in a particular
calendar year exceed $100,000, computed in accordance with Section 422A(b)(7) of
the Code. An incentive stock option shall not be granted to any person who owns,
directly or indirectly, Stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined
voting power of all classes of Stock of the Corporation. Nothing in this Section
8 shall be deemed to prevent the grant of nonqualified stock options in excess
of the maximum established by Section 422A of the Code.

        8.2 Grant of Director Stock Options. Subject to the provisions of
Sections 5 and 7, Director Stock Options shall be granted to Eligible Directors
as provided in this Section 8.2 and the Committee shall have no discretion with
respect to any matters set forth in this Section 8.2.

        (a) Vesting. Each Director Stock Option shall become exercisable on and
after the first anniversary of the date of the grant.

        (b) Number of Shares. Director Stock Options shall be granted as
follows:

             (i) Each Eligible Director on the effective date of the Plan shall
automatically be granted a Director Stock Option for 3,000 shares of Stock.

I-4
 
             (ii) Each other person who is elected or appointed to serve as a
director of the Corporation after the effective date of the Plan and who is an
Eligible Director shall, upon his initial appointment or election as an Eligible
Director, automatically be granted a Director Stock Option for 3,000 shares of
Stock;

             (iii) Commencing immediately after the adjournment of the
        Corporation's annual meeting of shareholders (an "Annual Meeting") in
1990 and immediately after the adjournment of the Annual Meeting each year
thereafter, each Eligible Director who was an Eligible Director immediately
preceding such Annual Meeting and who has been elected as a director at such
Annual Meeting shall automatically be granted a Director Stock Option for 1,000
shares of Stock if, but only if, the return on common equity of the Corporation
as set forth in the Corporation's annual report to shareholders for the
immediately preceding fiscal year is equal to or greater than 10%.

        8.3 Option Agreement. Each Option shall be evidenced by an Option
Agreement that shall specify the type of Option granted, the Option Price, the
duration of the Option, the number of shares of Stock to which the Option
pertains, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.

        8.4 Option Price. No Option granted pursuant to the Plan shall have an
Option Price that is less than the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date
the Option is granted.

        8.5 Duration of Options. Each Option, other than Director Stock Options,
shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time it is
granted; provided, however, that no Option, other than incentive stock options
within the meaning of Section 422A of the Code, shall be exercisable later than
twenty years and one day from the date of its grant and no such incentive stock
option shall be exercisable more than ten years and one day from the date of
grant. No Director Stock Option may be exercisable later than twenty years and
one day from the date of its grant.

        8.6 Exercise of Options. Options granted under the Plan other than
Director Stock Options shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such
restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve,
which need not be the same for all Participants.

        8.7 Payment. The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be
payable to the Corporation in full either (i) in cash or its equivalent, or (ii)
by tendering shares of previously acquired Stock having a Fair Market Value at
the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price, or (iii) by a combination
of (i) and (ii). The proceeds from such a payment shall be added to the general
funds of the Corporation and shall be used for general corporate purposes. As
soon as practicable after receipt of full payment (including the necessary tax
withholding), the Corporation shall deliver to the Participant or the Eligible
Director, as the case may be, Stock certificates in an appropriate amount based
upon the number of Options exercised, issued in the name of the Participant or
the Eligible Director, as the case may be.

        8.8 Restrictions on Stock Transferability. The Committee shall impose
such restrictions on any shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of an
Option under the Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation,
restrictions under applicable Federal securities law, under the requirements of
any stock exchange upon which such shares of Stock are then listed and under any
blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such shares.

        8.9 Termination of Employment. If the employment of a Participant
terminates, other than pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this Section,
all non-vested awards shall be canceled immediately, unless the Award Agreement
provides otherwise. Vested awards shall remain subject to the terms of the Award
Agreement, except to the extent modified by the provisions of paragraphs (a)
through (d) of this Section.

        (a) Retirement Under the Retirement Plan. When a Participant's
employment terminates as a result of Retirement with management approval in
accordance with the terms of the BANC ONE CORPORATION Retirement Plan, the
Committee (in the form of an amended Award Agreement or otherwise) may permit
awards to continue in effect beyond the date of Retirement in accordance with
the applicable Award Agreement and the exercisability and vesting of any award
may be accelerated.

I-5
 
        (b) Resignation in the Best Interest of the Corporation. When a
Participant resigns from the Corporation and, in the judgment of the chief
executive officer or other senior officer designated by the Committee, the
acceleration and/or continuation of outstanding awards would be in the best
interest of the Corporation, the Committee may (i) authorize, where appropriate,
the acceleration and/or continuation of all or any part of awards granted prior
to such termination, and (ii) permit the exercise, vesting and payment of such
awards for such period as may be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement,
subject to earlier cancellation pursuant to Section 8.10 or at such time as the
Committee shall deem the continuation of all or any of the Participant's awards
to be not in the Corporation's best interest.

        (c) Death or Disability of a Participant.

             (i) In the event of a Participant's death, the Participant's estate
or beneficiaries shall have a period specified in the Award Agreement within
which to receive or exercise any outstanding award held by the Participant under
such terms as may be specified in the applicable Award Agreement.

             (ii) In the event a participant is deemed by the Corporation to be
disabled and eligible for benefits pursuant to the terms of the Corporation's
Long-Term Disability Plan, any successor plan, or any predecessor plan, awards
and rights to any such awards may be paid to or exercised by the Participant, if
legally competent, or a committee or other legally designated guardian or
representative if the Participant is legally incompetent by virtue of such
disability.

             (iii) After the death or disability of a Participant, the Committee
may in its sole discretion at any time (1) terminate restrictions in Award
Agreements; (2) accelerate any or all installments and rights; and (3) instruct
the Corporation to pay the total of any accelerated payments in a lump sum to
the Participant, the Participant's estate, beneficiaries or representative -
notwithstanding that, in the absence of such termination of restrictions or
acceleration of payments, any or all of the payments due under the awards may
ultimately have become payable to other beneficiaries.

             (iv) In the event of uncertainty as to interpretation of or
controversies concerning this paragraph (c) of this Section 8.9, the Committee's
determination shall be binding and conclusive.

        (d) Sale of a Subsidiary. In the event of the sale of a subsidiary, or
any portion thereof, the Committee may in its sole discretion at any time (1)
terminate restrictions in Award Agreements; (2) accelerate any or all
installments and rights; and (3) instruct the Corporation to pay the total of
accelerated payments in a lump sum to affected Participants.

        8.10 Cancellation and Rescission of Awards. Unless the Award Agreement
specifies otherwise, the Committee may cancel any unexpired, unpaid, or deferred
awards at any time if the Participant is in violation of or not in compliance
with all other applicable provisions of the Plan, or the applicable Award
Agreement.

        8.11 Termination of Eligible Director Shares. In the event that an
Eligible Director ceases to be an Eligible Director for any reason, the rights
under any then outstanding Director Stock Option granted pursuant to the Plan
which are exercisable as of the date he ceases to be an Eligible Director shall
terminate upon the date determined as provided in Section 8.5, above, or three
months after such cessation date, whichever first occurs; provided, however,
that if he ceases to be an Eligible Director by reason of death, the three-month
period shall be extended to the sooner of twelve (12) months and five (5) days
or the expiration date of the Director Stock Option.

        8.12 Nontransferability of Options. No Option granted under the Plan may
be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated,
otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All Options
granted to a Participant or an Eligible Director under the Plan shall be
exercisable during his lifetime only by such Participant or Eligible Director.

SECTION 9. Stock Appreciation Rights

I-6
 
        9.1 Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights. Subject to the provisions of
Sections 6 and 7, Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to Participants at
any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. An SAR
may be granted, in the discretion of the Committee, in any of the following
forms:

        (a) In lieu of Options,

        (b) In addition to Options,

        (c) Upon lapse of Options, or

        (d) Independent of Options.

        9.2 Exercise of SARs in Lieu of Options. SARs granted in lieu of Options
may be exercised for all or part of the shares of Stock subject to the related
Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise an equivalent number of
Options. The SAR may be exercised only with respect to the shares of Stock for
which its related Option is then exercisable. SARs granted in lieu of Options
will lapse in the event and to the extent that the related Option is exercised.

        9.3 Exercise of SARs in Addition to Options. SARs granted in addition to
Options shall be deemed to be exercised upon the exercise of the related
Options.

        9.4 Exercise of SARs Upon Lapse of Options. SARs granted upon lapse of
Options shall be deemed to have been exercised upon the lapse of the related
Options as to the number of shares of Stock subject to the Options.

        9.5 Exercise of SARs Independent of Options. SARs granted independent of
Options may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in
its sole discretion, imposes upon the SARs.

        9.6 Payment of SAR Amount. Upon exercise of the SAR, the holder shall be
entitled to receive payment of an amount (subject to Section 9.8 below)
determined by multiplying:

             (a) The difference between the Fair Market Value of a share of
        Stock at the date of exercise over the price fixed by the Committee at
        the date of grant, by

             (b) The number of shares with respect to which the SAR is
         exercised.

        9.7 Form and Timing of Payment. At the discretion of the Committee,
payment for SARs may be made in cash or stock, or in a combination thereof. If
payment is made in Stock, the value of such Stock shall be the Fair Market Value
determined as of the date of exercise.

        9.8 Limit on Appreciation. At the time of grant, the Committee may
establish, in its sole discretion, a maximum amount per share which will be
payable upon exercise of an SAR.

        9.9 Rule 16b-3 Requirements. Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, the Committee may impose such conditions on exercise of an SAR (including,
without limitation, the right of the Committee to limit the time of exercise to
specified periods) as may be required to satisfy the requirements of Rule 16b-3
(or any successor rule), under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

        9.10 Term of SAR. The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall not
exceed ten years and one day.

        9.11 Termination of Employment. In the event the employment of a
Participant is terminated by reason of Death, Disability, Retirement, or any
other reason, any SARs outstanding shall terminate in the same manner as
specified for Options under Sections 8.9 and 8.10 herein.

I-7
 
        9.12 Nontransferability of SARs. No SAR granted under the Plan may be
sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated,
otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, all
SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his
lifetime only by such Participant.

SECTION 10. Restricted Stock Awards.

        10.1 Grant of Restricted Stock. Subject to the provisions of Sections 5
and 7, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may award shares of
Restricted Stock under the Plan to such Participants and in such amounts as it
shall determine. Each Restricted Stock Award shall be evidenced by a Restricted
Stock Agreement that shall specify the Period or Periods of Restriction, the
number of Restricted Stock shares awarded, and such other provisions as the
Committee shall determine.

        10.2 Transferability. Except as provided in this Section 10, the shares
of Restricted Stock awarded hereunder may not be sold, transferred, pledged,
assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated for such period of time as
shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Restricted
Stock Agreement, or upon earlier satisfaction of other conditions as specified
by the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Restricted Stock
Agreement.

        10.3 Other Restrictions. The Committee shall impose such other
restrictions on any shares of Restricted Stock awarded pursuant to the Plan as
it may deem advisable including, without limitation, restrictions under
applicable federal or state securities or tax laws, and may legend the
certificates representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice of such
restrictions.

        10.4 Certificate Legend. In addition to any legends placed on
certificates pursuant to Section 10.3 hereof, each certificate representing
shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan shall bear a legend
which is comparable to the following:

        "The sale or other transfer of this certificate or the shares of stock
represented by this certificate, whether voluntary, involuntary, or by operation
of law, is subject to certain restrictions on transfer and other terms and
conditions set forth in the BANC ONE CORPORATION 1989 Stock Incentive Plan and a
Restricted Stock Agreement dated , 19 . A copy of the Plan and such Restricted
Stock Agreement may be obtained from the Secretary of BANC ONE CORPORATION, 100
East Broad Street, Columbus, Ohio 43271-0261."

        10.5 Removal of Restrictions. Except as otherwise provided in this
Section 10, shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award
made under the Plan shall become freely transferable by the Participant after
the last day of the Period of Restriction. Once the shares are released from the
restrictions, the Participant shall be entitled to have the legend required by
Section 10.4 removed from his Stock certificates.

        10.6 Voting Rights. During the Period of Restriction, Participants
holding shares of Restricted Stock awarded hereunder may exercise full voting
rights with respect to those shares.

        10.7 Dividends and Other Distributions. During the Period of
Restriction, Participants holding shares of Restricted Stock awarded hereunder
shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with
respect to those shares while they are so held. If any such dividends or
distributions are paid in shares of Stock, the shares shall be subject to the
same restrictions on transferability as the shares of Restricted Stock with
respect to which they were paid.

        10.8 Termination of Employment. If the employment of a Participant
terminates other than pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this Section,
all non-vested awards shall be canceled immediately, unless the Award Agreement
provides otherwise. Vested awards shall remain subject to the terms of the Award
Agreement, except to the extent modified by the provisions of paragraphs (a)
through (d) of this Section.

I-8
 
        (a) Retirement Under the Retirement Plan. When a participant's
employment terminates as a result of Retirement with management approval in
accordance with the terms of the BANC ONE CORPORATION Retirement Plan, the
Committee (in the form of an amended Award Agreement or otherwise) may permit
awards to continue in effect beyond the date of Retirement in accordance with
the applicable Award Agreement and the exercisability and vesting of any Award
may be accelerated.

        (b) Resignation in the Best Interest of the Corporation. When a
Participant resigns from the Corporation and, in the judgment of the chief
executive officer or other senior officer designated by the Committee, the
acceleration and/or continuation of outstanding awards would be in the best
interest of the Corporation, the Committee may (i) authorize, where appropriate,
the acceleration and/or continuation of all or any part of awards granted prior
to such termination, and (ii) permit the exercise, vesting and payment of such
awards for such period as may be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement,
subject to earlier cancelation pursuant to Section 10.9 or at such time as the
Committee shall deem the continuation of all or any of the Participant's awards
to be not in the Corporation's best interest.

        (c) Death or Disability of a Participant.

                (i) In the event of a Participant's death, the Participant's
estate or beneficiaries shall have a period specified in the Award Agreement
within which to receive or exercise any outstanding award held by the
Participant under such terms as may be specified in the applicable Award
Agreement.

                (ii) In the event a participant is deemed by the Corporation to
be disabled and eligible for benefits pursuant to the terms of the Corporation's
Long-Term Disability Plan, any successor plan, or any predecessor plan, awards
and rights to any such awards may be paid to or exercised by the Participant, if
legally competent, or a committee or other legally designated guardian or
representative if the Participant is legally incompetent by virtue of such
disability.

                (iii) After the death or disability of a Participant, the
Committee may in its sole discretion at any time (1) terminate restrictions in
Award Agreements; (2) accelerate any or all installments and rights; and (3)
instruct the Corporation to pay the total of any accelerated payments in a lump
sum to the Participant, the Participant's estate, beneficiaries or
representative - notwithstanding that, in the absence of such termination of
restrictions or acceleration of payments, any or all of the payments due under
the awards may ultimately have become payable to other beneficiaries.

                (iv) In the event of uncertainty as to interpretation of or
controversies concerning this paragraph (c) of this Section 10.8, the
Committee's determination shall be binding and conclusive.

        (d) Sale of a Subsidiary. In the event of the sale of a subsidiary, or
any portion thereof, the Committee may in its sole discretion at any time (1)
terminate restrictions in Award Agreements; (2) accelerate any or all
installments and rights; and (3) instruct the Corporation to pay the total of
accelerated payments in a lump sum to affected Participants.

        10.9 Cancellation and Rescission of Awards. Unless the Award Agreement
specifies otherwise, the Committee may cancel any unexpired, unpaid, or deferred
awards at any time if the Participant is in violation of or not in compliance
with all other applicable provisions of the Plan, or the applicable Award
Agreement.

SECTION 11. Performance Shares

        11.1 Grant of Performance Shares. Subject to the provisions of Sections
5 and 7, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Performance
Shares to such Participants and in such amounts as it shall determine. Each
grant of Performance Shares shall be in writing.

I-9
 
        11.2 Performance Period. The period over which Performance Shares may be
earned shall begin on the first day of the fiscal year in which a grant occurs.
The length of the Performance Period for each grant shall be determined by the
Committee, in its sole discretion, but shall not be less than two years.

        11.3 Performance Measurement. At the beginning of each Performance
Period, Performance Objectives shall be established by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Corporation subject to Committee approval. The degree of
attainment of such Performance Objectives shall determine the number of the
Performance Shares payable at the end of the Performance Period, in accordance
with a schedule established by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the
Committee at the beginning of the Performance Period.

        The Committee may adjust the Performance Objectives during the
Performance Period if it is determined that changes in business conditions have
materially and unduly influenced the Corporation's ability to meet the
Performance Objectives.

        11.4 Payment of Awards. All payments pursuant to Performance Share
grants shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the applicable
Performance Period based upon the degree of attainment of the Performance
Objectives. Payments shall be made in Stock. The Committee shall review all
calculations of actual Performance Objective accomplishments and shall make any
adjustments in the computations to recognize material extraordinary or
nonrecurring items if, in the judgment of the Committee, the effect of such
adjustments is equitable and in conformity with the purposes of the Plan.

        11.5 Termination of Employment Due to Retirement. In the event that a
Participant terminates his employment with the Corporation because of Normal
Retirement during the Performance Period, the Participant shall be entitled to a
prorated award of Performance Shares as of the most recently completed full
fiscal year of the Performance Period. Payments of Performance Shares determined
in this manner shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of full months which have elapsed since the commencement of the
Performance Period, and the denominator of which is the number of full months in
the particular Performance Period. Payment of Performance Shares in this case
shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the fiscal year of
termination.

        In the event that a Participant terminates his employment with the
Corporation because of Early Retirement, any Performance Shares outstanding at
the date of such Early Retirement automatically shall be forfeited; provided,
however, that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine a prorated
value for the Participant's then outstanding Performance Shares as it deems
appropriate. Payment of Performance Shares in this case shall be made as soon as
practicable following the end of the fiscal year of termination.

        11.6 Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability. In the event
a Participant terminates his employment with the Corporation because of Death or
Disability during the Performance Period, the Participant shall be entitled to a
prorated award of Performance Shares as of the most recently completed full
fiscal year of the Performance Period. Payments of Performance Shares determined
in this manner shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of full months which have elapsed since the commencement of the
Performance Period, and the denominator of which is the number of full months in
the particular Performance Period. Payment of Performance Shares in this case
shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the fiscal year of
termination.

        11.7 Termination of Employment for Reasons Other Than Death, Disability
or Retirement. In the event that a Participant terminates his employment with
the Corporation for any reason other than those set forth in Sections 1 1.5 and
11.6 hereof during the Performance Period, then any Performance Shares still
outstanding at the date of such termination automatically shall be forfeited;
provided, however, that, in the event of an involuntary termination of the
employment of a Participant by the Corporation the Committee may, in its sole
discretion, waive the automatic forfeiture of any or all such Performance Shares
as it deems appropriate, and pay a prorated award.

        11.8 Nontransferability of Performance Shares. No Performance Shares
granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise
alienated or hypothecated, otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent

I-10
 
and distribution until the termination of the applicable Performance Period. All
rights with respect to Performance Shares granted to a Participant under the
Plan shall be exercisable during his lifetime only by such Participant.

SECTION 12.  Performance Awards

        12.1 Grant of Performance Awards. Subject to the provisions of Sections
5 and 7, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Performance
Awards under the Plan to Such Participants and in such amounts as it shall
determine. Each grant of Performance Awards shall be in writing.

        12.2 Performance Period. The period over which Performance Awards may be
earned shall begin on the first day of the fiscal year in which a grant occurs.
The length of the Performance Period for each grant shall be determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion but shall not be less than two years.

        12.3 Performance Measurement. At the beginning of each Performance
Period, Performance Objectives shall be established by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Corporation subject to Committee approval. The degree of
attainment of such Performance Objectives shall determine the value of the
Performance Awards at the end of the Performance Period, in accordance with a
schedule established by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the
Committee at the beginning of the Performance Period.

        The Committee may adjust the Performance Objectives during the
Performance Period if it is determined that changes in business conditions have
materially and unduly influenced the Corporation's ability to meet the
Performance Objectives.

        12.4 Payment of Awards. All payments pursuant to Performance Award
grants shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the applicable
Performance Period based upon the degree of attainment of the Performance
Objectives. Payments shall be made in cash. The Committee shall review all
calculations of actual Performance Objective accomplishments and shall make any
adjustments in the computations to recognize material extraordinary or
nonrecurring items if, in the judgment of the Committee, the effect of such
adjustments is equitable and in conformity with the purposes of the Plan.

        12.5 Termination of Employment Due to Retirement. In the event that a
Participant terminates his employment with the Corporation because of Normal
Retirement during the Performance Period, the Participant shall be entitled to a
prorated award of Performance Awards as of the most recently completed full
fiscal year of the Performance Period. Payment of Performance Awards determined
in this manner shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of full months which have elapsed since the commencement of the
Performance Period, and the denominator of which is the number of full months in
the particular Performance Period. Payment of Performance Awards in this case
shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the fiscal year of
termination.

In the event that a Participant terminates his employment with the Corporation
because of Early Retirement, the Committee may, in its sole discretion,
determine a prorated value for the Participant's then outstanding Performance
Awards as it deems appropriate. Payment of Performance Awards in this case shall
be made as soon as practicable following the end of the fiscal year of
termination.

        12.6 Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability. In the event
a Participant terminates his employment with the Corporation because of Death or
Disability during the Performance Period, the Participant shall be entitled to a
prorated award of Performance Awards as of the most recently completed full
fiscal year of the Performance Period. Payments of Performance Awards determined
in this manner shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of full months which have elapsed since the commencement of the
Performance Period, and the denominator of which is the number of full months in
the particular Performance Period. Payment of Performance Awards in this case
shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the fiscal year of
termination.

I-11
 
        12.7 Termination of Employment for Reasons Other Than Death, Disability,
or Retirement. In the event that a Participant terminates his employment with
the Corporation for any reason other than those set forth in Sections 12.5 and
12.6 hereof during the Performance Period, then any Performance Awards still
outstanding at the date of such termination automatically shall be forfeited;
provided, however, that in the event of an involuntary termination of the
employment of a Participant by the Corporation the Committee may, in its sole
discretion, waive the automatic forfeiture of any or all such Performance Awards
as it deems appropriate and pay a prorated award.

        12.8 Nontransferability of Performance Awards. No Performance Awards
granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise
alienated or hypothecated, otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution until the termination of the applicable Performance Period. All
rights with respect to Performance Awards granted to a Participant under the
Plan shall be exercisable during his lifetime only by such Participant.

SECTION 13. Beneficiary Designation

        Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any
beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to
whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his death before he
receives any or all of such benefit. Each designation will revoke all prior
designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the
Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing
with the Committee during his lifetime. In the absence of any such designation,
benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to his
estate.

SECTION 14. Rights of Employees

        14.1 Employment. Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in
any way the right of the Corporation to terminate any Participant's employment
at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ
of the Corporation.

        14.2 Participation. No employee shall have a right to be selected as a
Participant, or, having been so selected, to be selected again as a Participant.

SECTION 15. Change in Control

        15.1 In General. In the event that (a) the Corporation is a party to a
merger or consolidation agreement, (b) the Corporation is a party to an
agreement to sell substantially all of its assets, or (c) there is a change in
control of the Corporation as defined in Section 15.3 below, the Committee may,
in its sole discretion, provide that all outstanding Awards shall become 100%
vested, that all outstanding Options and SARs shall become immediately
exercisable and that any Period of Restriction shall immediately lapse.
Performance Share and Performance Award values shall be computed as if the most
recently completed full fiscal year was the end of the Performance Period,
except that no Performance Share or Performance Award payable under this
Section, except as limited by Section 15.2 hereof, may be less than would have
been paid had the Corporation achieved 100% of its Performance Objectives.

        15.2 Limitation on Payments. If the receipt of any payment under this
Section by any Participant shall, in the opinion of independent tax counsel of
recognized standing selected by the Corporation, result in the payment by such
Participant of any excise tax provided for in Section 280G and Section 4999 of
the Code, then the amount of such payment shall be reduced to the extent
required, in the opinion of independent tax counsel, to prevent the imposition
of such excise tax.

        15.3 Definition. For purposes of the Plan, a "change in control" shall
mean any of the following events:

I-12
 
                (i) The acquisition of "beneficial ownership", as defined in
Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange
Act"), of twenty percent (20%) or more of the total voting capital Stock of the
Corporation then issued and outstanding, by any person, or "group", as defined
in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, or

                (ii) Individuals who were members of the Board of the
Corporation immediately prior to a meeting of the shareholders of the
Corporation involving a contest for the election of directors do not constitute
a majority of the Board immediately following such election, unless the election
of such new directors was recommended to the shareholders by management of the
Corporation.

        The Board has final authority to determine the exact date on which a
change in control has been deemed to have occurred under (i) and (ii) above.

SECTION 16. Amendment, Modification, and Termination of Plan

        The Board may at any time terminate and, from time to time, may amend or
modify the Plan, provided, however, that no such action of the Board, without
approval of the shareholders, may:

        (a) Increase the total amount of Stock which may be issued under the
Plan, except as provided in Subsections 5.1 and 5.3 of the Plan.

        (b) Change the provisions of the Plan regarding the Option Price except
as permitted by Subsection 5.3.

        (c) Materially increase the cost of the Plan or materially increase the
benefits to Participants.

        (d) Extend the period during which Options, Stock Appreciation Rights,
Restricted Stock, Performance Shares, or Performance Awards may be granted.

        (e) Extend the maximum period after the date of grant during which
Options may be exercised.

        No amendment, modification, or termination of the Plan shall in any
manner adversely affect any Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted
Stock, Performance Shares, or Performance Awards theretofore granted under the
Plan, without the consent of the Participant or the Eligible Director, as the
case may be.

SECTION 17.  Tax Withholding

                (a) The Corporation shall have the right to withhold from any
payments made under the Plan or to collect as a condition of payment, any taxes
required by law to be withheld. At any time when a Participant or an Eligible
Director, as the case may be, is required to pay to the Corporation an amount
required to be withheld under applicable income tax laws In connection with a
distribution of common stock or upon exercise of an Option or SAR, the
Participant or an Eligible Director, as the case may be, may satisfy this
obligation in whole or in part by electing (the "Election") to have the
Corporation withhold from the distribution shares of common stock having a value
equal to the amount required to be withheld. The value of the shares to be
withheld shall be based on the Fair Market Value of the common stock on the date
that the amount of tax to be withheld shall be determined ("Tax Date").

                (b) Each Election must be made prior to the Tax Date. The
Committee may disapprove of any Election, may suspend or terminate the right to
make Elections, or may provide with respect to any grant that the right to make
Elections shall not apply to such Grant. An Election is irrevocable.

I-13
 
SECTION 18. Indemnification

        Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee or of
the Board shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation against and
from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or
reasonably incurred by him in connection with or resulting from any claim,
action, Suit, or proceeding to which he may be a party or in which he may be
involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the plan and
against and from any and all amounts paid by him in settlement thereof, with the
Corporation's approval, or paid by him in satisfaction of any judgment in any
such action, suit, or proceeding against him, provided he shall give the
Corporation an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same
before he undertakes to handle and defend it on his own behalf. The foregoing
right of Indemnification, shall not be exclusive of any other rights of
Indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Corporation's
Articles of Incorporation or Code of Regulations, as a matter of law, or
otherwise, or any power that the Corporation may have to indemnify them or hold
them harmless.

SECTION 19. Requirements of Law

        19.1 Requirements of Law. The granting of Options, Stock Appreciation
Rights, Restricted Stock, Performance Shares, or performance Awards, and the
issuance of shares of Stock upon the exercise of an Option shall be subject to
all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any
governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.

        19.2 Governing Law. The Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be
construed in accordance with and be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio.

Amended:
 Oct., 1996 -  Section 2 - Definition of Committee
               Sections 8.9, 8.10 & 10.8 - Matters re: Termination of Employment
               Section 17(c) Deleted

 Apr., 1992 -  Section 5.1 Stock Subject to Plan Increased

I-14

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.15>
 14
 y74757exv10w15.txt
 EX-10.15: BANC ONE CORPORATION 1995 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Exhibit 10.15

REVISED AND RESTATED
                              BANC ONE CORPORATION
                            1995 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

1.   PURPOSE

     The purpose of the BANC ONE CORPORATION 1995 Stock Incentive Plan is to
provide incentives and rewards for Employees and Eligible Directors of the
Corporation and its Subsidiaries (i) to support the execution of the
Corporation's business and human resource strategies and the achievement of its
goals and (ii) to associate the interests of Employees and Eligible Directors
with those of the Corporation's shareholders.

2.   DEFINITIONS

     "Award" includes, without limitation, stock options (including incentive
stock options under Section 422 of the Code and Director Stock Options), stock
appreciation rights, restricted and performance shares, restricted and
performance share units, Performance Stock Awards, dividend or equivalent
rights, or other awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or
are otherwise based on, the Common Stock ("other Common Stock-based Awards"),
all on a stand alone, combination or tandem basis, as described in or granted
under this Plan.

     "Award Agreement" means a written agreement entered into between the
Corporation and a Participant setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award
made to such Participant under this Plan, in the form prescribed by the
Committee.

     "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.

     "Change of Control" shall have the meaning specified in Section 12(b).

     "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time.

     "Committee" means the Committee appointed by the Board, each member of
which shall be a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under
the Exchange Act and shall be an "outside director" within the meaning of
Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee shall be composed of no fewer than the
minimum number of disinterested persons as may be required by Rule 16b-3.

     "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Corporation, without par
value.

     "Corporation" means BANC ONE CORPORATION, a bank holding company under the
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 headquartered in Columbus, Ohio.

     "Director Stock Option" means the right, granted to an Eligible Director,
to purchase Common Stock at a stated price for a specified period of time. Each
Director Stock Option shall be a nonqualified stock option whose grant is not
intended to comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any
successor Section as it may be amended from time to time.

     "Eligible Director" means any statutory director of the Corporation who is
not an employee of the Corporation or any Subsidiary.

     "Employee" means an employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary.

-1-
 
     "Employee Award" means an Award (other than a Director Stock Option) to an
Employee under this Plan.

     "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended.

     "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     "Fair Market Value" means the closing price of the Common Stock as reported
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Tape on the relevant
valuation date or, if there were no Common Stock transactions on the valuation
date, on the next preceding date on which there were Common Stock transactions;
provided, however, that the Committee may specify some other definition of Fair
Market Value with respect to any particular Employee Award.

     "Negative Discretion" means other factors to be applied by the Committee in
reducing the number of restricted shares to be issued pursuant to a Performance
Stock Award if the Performance Goals have been met or exceeded if, in the
Committee's sole judgment, such application is appropriate in order to act in
the best interest of the Corporation and its shareholders. The Negative
Discretion factors include, but are not limited to, the achievement of
measurable individual performance objectives established by the Committee and
communicated to the Employee in advance of the Performance Period, and
competitive pay practices.

     "Participant" means an Employee or an Eligible Director who has been
granted an Award under this Plan.

     "Performance Goals" means, with respect to any Performance Period,
performance goals based on any of the following criteria and established by the
Committee prior to the beginning of such Performance Period or performance goals
based on any of the following criteria and established by the Committee after
the beginning of such Performance Period that meet the requirements to be
considered pre-established performance goals under Section 162(m) of the Code:
earnings or earnings growth; return on equity, assets or investment; revenues;
expenses; stock price; market share; charge-offs; or reductions in
non-performing assets. Such Performance Goals may be particular to an Employee
or the division, department, branch, line of business, Subsidiary or other Unit
in which the Employee works, or may be based on the performance of the
Corporation generally.

     "Performance Period" means the period of time designated by the Committee
applicable to a Performance Stock Award during which the Performance Goals shall
be measured.

     "Performance Stock Award" shall have the meaning specified in Section 6(g).

     "Plan" means this BANC ONE CORPORATION 1995 Stock Incentive Plan.

     "Plan Year" means a twelve-month period beginning with January 1 of each
year.

     "Reporting Person" means an officer or director of the Corporation subject
to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

     "Subsidiary" means any corporation or other entity, whether domestic or
foreign, in which the Corporation has or obtains, directly or indirectly, a
proprietary interest of more than 50% by reason of stock ownership or otherwise.

-2-
 
3.   ELIGIBILITY

     (a) Any Employee selected by the Committee is eligible to receive an
Employee Award.

     (b) Eligible Directors are entitled to participate in this Plan solely
with respect to the grant of Director Stock Options and may not receive any
other Awards under this Plan. The selection of Eligible Directors is not subject
to the discretion of the Committee. Persons serving on the Committee who are
Eligible Directors may receive grants of Director Stock Options.

4.   PLAN ADMINISTRATION

     (a) This Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall
periodically make determinations with respect to the participation of Employees
in this Plan and, except as otherwise required by law or this Plan, the grant
terms of Awards including vesting schedules, price, performance standards
(including Performance Goals), length of relevant performance, restriction or
option period, dividend rights, post-retirement and termination rights, payment
alternatives such as cash, stock, contingent awards or other means of payment
consistent with the purposes of this Plan, and such other terms and conditions
as the Committee deems appropriate. Except as otherwise required by this Plan,
the Committee shall have authority to interpret and construe the provisions of
this Plan and the Award Agreements and make determinations pursuant to any Plan
provision or Award Agreement which shall be final and binding on all persons.

     (b) The Committee may designate persons other than its members to carry out
its responsibilities under such conditions or limitations as it may set, other
than its authority with regard to Awards granted to Reporting Persons.

5.   STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS PLAN

     (a) The stock subject to the provisions of this Plan shall either be shares
of authorized but unissued Common Stock, shares of Common Stock held as treasury
stock or previously issued shares of Common Stock reacquired by the Corporation,
including shares purchased on the open market. Subject to adjustment in
accordance with the provisions of Section 11, and subject to Section 5(d), (i)
the total number of shares of Common Stock available for grants of Awards
(including, without limitation, Awards of restricted and performance shares) in
any Plan Year shall not exceed one percent of the outstanding Common Stock as
reported in the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ending immediately prior to such Plan Year and (ii) the total number of shares
of Common Stock available for grants of restricted and performance shares
(including restricted shares to be issued pursuant to Performance Stock Awards)
in any Plan Year shall not exceed one fourth of one percent of the outstanding
Common Stock as reported in the Corporation's Annual Report on form 10- K for
the fiscal year ending immediately prior to such Plan Year.

     (b) Subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 11, and subject to
Section 5(a), (i) the total number of shares of Common Stock available for
grants of Awards in any Plan Year to any Participant shall not exceed one half
of one percent of the outstanding Common Stock as reported in the Corporation's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending immediately prior to such
Plan Year and (ii) the total number of shares of Common Stock available for
grants of restricted shares to be issued pursuant to Performance Stock Awards in
any Plan Year to any Employee shall not exceed one eighth of one percent of the
outstanding Common Stock as reported in the Corporation's Annual Report on form
10-K for the fiscal year ending immediately prior to such Plan Year.

-3-
 
     (c) For purposes of calculating the total number of shares of Common Stock
available for grants of Awards, (i) the grant of a performance or restricted
share unit Award shall be deemed to be equal to the maximum number of shares of
Common Stock which may be issued under the Award and (ii) where the value of an
Award is variable on the date it is granted, the value shall be deemed to be the
maximum limitation of the Award. Awards payable solely in cash will not reduce
the number of shares of Common Stock available for Awards granted under this
Plan.

     (d) There shall be carried forward and be available for Awards under this
Plan in each succeeding Plan Year, in addition to shares of Common Stock
available for grant under paragraph (a) of this Section 5, all of the following:
(i) any unused portion of the limit set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 5
for the two immediately preceding Plan Years; (ii) shares of Common Stock
represented by Awards which have been canceled, forfeited, surrendered,
terminated or expire unexercised during that Plan Year or the two immediately
preceding Plan Years; (iii) the excess amount of variable Awards which become
fixed at less than their maximum limitations; (iv) authorized shares of Common
Stock as to which stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock
awards, performance shares or performance awards were not granted under the BANC
ONE CORPORATION 1989 Stock Incentive Plan; and (v) shares of Common Stock under
the BANC ONE CORPORATION 1989 Stock Incentive Plan subject to stock options,
stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, performance shares or
performance awards which have been canceled, forfeited, surrendered, terminated
or expire unexercised during that Plan Year or the two immediately preceding
Plan Years.

6.   EMPLOYEE AWARDS UNDER THIS PLAN

     As the Committee may determine, the following types of Employee Awards may
be granted under this Plan to Employees on a stand alone, combination or tandem
basis:

     (a) Stock Option. A right to buy a specified number of shares of Common
Stock at a fixed exercise price during a specified time, all as the Committee
may determine; provided that the exercise price of any option shall not be less
than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of
the Award.

     (b) Incentive Stock Option. An award in the form of a stock option which
shall comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor
Section as it may be amended from time to time.

     (c) Stock Appreciation Right. A right to receive the excess of the Fair
Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the stock appreciation right
is exercised over the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date
the stock appreciation right was granted.

     (d) Restricted and Performance Shares. A transfer of shares of Common Stock
to a Participant, subject to such restrictions on transfer or other incidents of
ownership, or subject to specified performance standards, for such periods of
time as the Committee may determine.

     (e) Restricted and Performance Share Unit. A fixed or variable share or
dollar denominated unit subject to conditions of vesting, performance and time
of payment as the Committee may determine, which may be paid in shares of Common
Stock, cash or a combination of both.

     (f) Dividend or Equivalent Right. A right to receive dividends or their
equivalent in value in shares of Common Stock, cash or in a combination of both
with respect to any new or previously existing Employee Award.

                                       -4-
 
     (g) Performance Stock Awards. A right, granted to an Employee, to receive
restricted shares (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof) that are not to be issued
to the Employee until after the end of the related Performance Period, subject
to satisfaction of the Performance Goals for such Performance Period.

     (h) Other Common Stock-Based Awards. Other Common Stock-based Awards which
are related to or serve a similar function to those Employee Awards set forth in
this Section 6.

     In addition to granting Employee Awards for purposes of incentive
compensation, Employee Awards may also be made in tandem with or in lieu of
current or deferred Employee compensation.

7.   PERFORMANCE STOCK AWARDS.

     (a) Administration. Performance Stock Awards may be granted to Employees
either alone or in addition to other Employee Awards granted under this Plan.
The Committee shall determine the Employees to whom Performance Stock Awards
shall be awarded for any Performance Period, the duration of the applicable
Performance Period, the number of restricted shares to be awarded at the end of
a Performance Period to Employees if the Performance Goals are met or exceeded
and the terms and conditions of the Performance Stock Award in addition to those
contained in this Section 7.

     (b) Payment of Award. After the end of a Performance Period, the financial
performance of the Corporation during such Performance Period shall be measured
against the Performance Goals. If the Performance Goals are not met, no
restricted shares shall be issued pursuant to the Performance Stock Award. If
the Performance Goals are met or exceeded, the Committee shall certify that fact
in writing in the Committee minutes or elsewhere and certify the number of
restricted shares to be issued under each Performance Stock Award in accordance
with the related Award Agreement. The Committee may, in its sole discretion,
apply Negative Discretion to reduce the number of restricted shares to be issued
under a Performance Stock Award.

     (c) Requirement of Employment. To be entitled to receive a Performance
Stock Award, an Employee must remain in the employment of the Corporation
through the end of the Performance Period, except that the Committee may provide
for partial or complete exceptions to this requirement as it deems equitable in
its sole discretion.

8.   DIRECTOR STOCK OPTIONS

     Subject to the provisions of Section 5, Director Stock Options shall be
granted to Eligible Directors as provided in this Section 8 and the Committee
shall have no discretion with respect to any matters set forth in this Section
8.

     (a) Vesting. Each Director Stock Option shall become exercisable on and
after the first anniversary of the date of the grant.

     (b) Number of Shares. Director Stock Options shall be granted as follows:

          (i) Each person who is first elected or appointed to serve as a
director of the Corporation after the effective date of this Plan and who is an
Eligible Director shall, upon such person's initial appointment or election as
an Eligible Director, automatically be granted Director Stock Options for that
number of shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value of $100,000 on the
date the Director Stock Options are granted; and

          (ii) Commencing immediately after the adjournment of the Corporation's
annual meeting of shareholders (an "Annual Meeting") in 1995 and immediately
after the adjournment of the Annual

-5-
 
Meeting each year thereafter, each Eligible Director who was an Eligible
Director immediately preceding such Annual Meeting and who has been elected as a
director at such Annual Meeting shall automatically be granted Director Stock
Options for that number of shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value of
$60,000 on the date the Director Stock Options are granted if, but only if, the
return on common equity of the Corporation as set forth in the Corporation's
annual report to shareholders for the immediately preceding fiscal year is equal
to or greater than 10%.

     (c) Option Price. Each Director Stock Option shall have an option price
("Option Price") that is equal to the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on
the date the Director Stock Option is granted.

     (d) Duration of Options. No Director Stock Option may be exercisable later
than twenty years and one day from the date of its grant.

     (e) Payment. The Option Price upon exercise of any Director Stock Option
shall be payable to the Corporation in full either (i) in U.S. dollars by
personal check, bank draft or money order payable to the order of the
Corporation, by money transfers or direct account debits, (ii) through the
delivery or deemed delivery based on attestation of ownership of shares of
Common Stock with a Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total
Option Price or (iii) by a combination of the methods described in items (i) and
(ii) above.

     (f) Termination of Director Stock Options. If an Eligible Director ceases
to be an Eligible Director for any reason, the rights under any then outstanding
Director Stock Option granted pursuant to this Plan which are exercisable as of
the date such person ceases to be an Eligible Director shall terminate upon the
date determined as provided in Section 8(d), above, or three years after such
cessation date, whichever first occurs. Any then outstanding Director Stock
Option granted to such Eligible Director which is not exercisable as of the date
such person ceases to be an Eligible Director shall terminate on and as of such
date.

9.   OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS

     (a) Assignability. Except to the extent, if any, as may be permitted by the
Code and rules promulgated under Section 16 of the Exchange Act, (i) no Award
shall be assignable or transferable except by will, by the laws of descent and
distribution, pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the
Code and as determined or established by the Committee, and (ii) during the
lifetime of a Participant, an Award shall be exercisable only by such
Participant, such Participant's guardian, legal representative or assignee
pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order or as determined or established
by the Committee. An Award shall not otherwise be assignable.

     (b) Award Agreement. Each Award under this Plan shall be evidenced by an
Award Agreement.

     (c) Rights As A Shareholder. Except as otherwise provided herein or in any
Award Agreement, a Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder with
respect to shares of Common Stock covered by an Award until the date the
Participant or his nominee (which, for purposes of this Plan, shall include any
third party agent selected by the Committee to hold such shares on behalf of a
Participant), guardian or legal representative is the holder of record of such
shares.

     (d) No Obligation to Exercise. The grant of an Award shall impose no
obligation upon the Participant to exercise the Award.

     (e) Payments by Participants. The Committee may determine that Employee
Awards for which a payment is due from a Participant may be payable: (i) in U.S.
dollars by personal check, bank draft or money order payable to the order of the
Corporation, by money transfers or direct account debits; (ii) through the
delivery or deemed delivery based on attestation to the ownership of shares of
Common Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to the total payment due from the
Participant; (iii) by a combination of the methods described in (i) and (ii)
above; or (iv) by such other methods as the Committee may deem appropriate.

-6-
 
     (f) Tax Withholding. The Corporation shall have the right to withhold from
any payments made under this Plan, or to collect as a condition of payment, any
taxes required by law to be withheld. At any time when a Participant is required
to pay to the Corporation an amount required to be withheld under applicable
income tax laws in connection with a distribution of shares of Common Stock
pursuant to this Plan, the Participant may satisfy this obligation in whole or
in part by electing to have the Corporation withhold from such distribution
shares of Common Stock having a value equal to the amount required to be
withheld. The value of the shares of Common Stock to be withheld shall be based
on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date that the amount of tax
to be withheld shall be determined (the "Tax Date"). Any such election is
subject to the following restrictions: (i) the election must be made on or prior
to the Tax Date and (ii) the election must be subject to the disapproval of the
Committee.

     (g) Restrictions On Sale and Exercise. With respect to Reporting Persons,
and if required to comply with rules promulgated under Section 16 of the
Exchange Act, (i) no Award providing for exercise, a vesting period, a
restriction period or the attainment of performance standards shall permit
unrestricted ownership of shares of Common Stock by the Participant for at least
six months from the date of grant, and (ii) shares of Common Stock acquired
pursuant to this Plan (other than shares of Common Stock acquired as a result of
the granting of a "derivative security") may not be sold or otherwise disposed
of for at least six months after acquisition.

     (h) Requirements of Law. The granting of Awards and the issuance of shares
of Common Stock upon the exercise of Awards shall be subject to all applicable
requirements imposed by federal and state securities and other laws, rules and
regulations and by any regulatory agencies having jurisdiction, and by any stock
exchanges upon which the Common Stock may be listed. As a condition precedent to
the issuer of shares of Common Stock pursuant to the grant or exercise of an
Award, the Corporation may require the Participant to take any reasonable action
to meet such requirements.

10.  AMENDMENTS

     (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, the Board may at any time
terminate and, from time to time, may amend or modify this Plan. Any such action
of the Board may be taken without the approval of the Corporation's
shareholders, but only to the extent that such shareholder approval is not
required by applicable law or regulation, including specifically Rule 16b-3
under the Exchange Act.

     (b) No amendment, modification or termination of this Plan shall in any
manner adversely affect any Awards theretofore granted to a Participant under
this Plan without the consent of such Participant.

11.  RECAPITALIZATION

     The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock as to which Awards may be
granted to Participants, the number of shares thereof covered by each
outstanding Award, and the price per share thereof in each such Award, shall all
be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued
shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split, stock dividend, combination
or exchange of shares, exchange for other securities, reclassification,
reorganization, redesignation, merger, consolidation, recapitalization or other
such change. Any such adjustment may provide for the elimination of fractional
shares.

12.  NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT

     No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the
grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be
retained in the employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary. Nothing in this Plan
shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Corporation or any
Subsidiary to terminate any Participant's employment at any time, nor confer
upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or
any Subsidiary.

-7-
 
13.  CHANGE OF CONTROL

     (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 13(c) below, notwithstanding
anything contained in this Plan, the provisions of Section 13(a)(iii) below or
any Award Agreement to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control, as
defined below, the following (x) may, in the sole discretion of the Committee,
occur with respect to any and all Employee Awards outstanding as of such Change
of Control and (y) shall occur with respect to any and all Director Stock
Options outstanding as of such Change of Control:

          (i) automatic maximization of performance standards, lapse of all
restrictions and acceleration of any time periods relating to the exercise,
realization or vesting of such Awards so that such Awards may be immediately
exercised, realized or vested in full on or before the relevant date fixed in
the Award Agreement;

          (ii) performance shares or performance units shall be paid entirely in
cash;

          (iii) upon exercise of a stock option or an incentive stock option
(collectively, an "Option") during the 60-day period from and after the date of
a Change of Control, the Participant exercising the Option may in lieu of the
receipt of Common Stock upon the exercise of the Option, elect by written notice
to the Corporation to receive an amount in cash equal to the excess of the
aggregate Value (as defined below) of the shares of Common Stock covered by the
Option or portion thereof surrendered determined on the date the Option is
exercised, over the aggregate exercise price of the Option (such excess is
referred to herein as the "Aggregate Spread"); provided, however, and
notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, if the end of such 60-day
period from and after the date of a Change of Control is within six months of
the date of grant of an Option held by a Participant who is a Reporting Person,
such Option shall be canceled in exchange for a cash payment to the Participant
equal to the Aggregate Spread on the day which is six months and one day after
the date of grant of such Option. As used in this Section 13(a)(iii) the term
"Value" means the higher of (i) the highest Fair Market Value during the 60-day
period from and after the date of a Change of Control and (ii) if the Change of
Control is the result of a transaction or series of transactions described in
paragraphs (i) or (iii) of the definition of Change of Control, the highest
price per share of the Common Stock paid in such transaction or series of
transactions (which in the case of paragraph (i) shall be the highest price per
share of the Common Stock as reflected in a Schedule 13D filed by the person
having made the acquisition);

          (iv) if a Participant's employment terminates for any reason other
than retirement or death following a Change of Control, any Options held by such
Participant may be exercised by such Participant until the earlier of three
months after the termination of employment or the expiration date of such
Options; and

          (v) all Awards become non-cancelable.

     (b) A "Change of Control" of the Corporation shall be deemed to have
occurred upon the happening of any of the following events:

          (i) the acquisition, other than from the Corporation, by any
individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2)
of the Exchange Act) of beneficial ownership of 20% or more of either the then
outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation or the combined voting
power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Corporation entitled to
vote generally in the election of directors; provided, however, that any
acquisition by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, or any employee
benefit plan (or related trust) of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, or any
corporation with respect to which, following such acquisition, more than 50% of,
respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation
and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such
corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then
beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the
individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the
Common Stock and voting securities of the Corporation immediately prior to such
acquisition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately

-8-
 
prior to such acquisition, of the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the
Corporation or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting
securities of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of
directors, as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change of Control;

          (ii) individuals who, as of January 1, 1995, constitute the Board as
of the date hereof (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at
least a majority of the Board, provided that any individual becoming a director
subsequent to such date whose election, or nomination for election by the
Corporation's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such
individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this
purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection
with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the
directors of the Corporation (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of
Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act); or

          (iii) approval by the shareholders of the Corporation of a
reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Corporation, in each case, with
respect to which the individuals and entities who were the respective beneficial
owners of the Common Stock and voting securities of the Corporation immediately
prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, following such
reorganization, merger or consolidation, beneficially own, directly or
indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of
Common Stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting
securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case
may be, of the corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or
consolidation, or a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or of
the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the
Corporation.

     (c) If any right granted pursuant to Section 13(a) would make a Change of
Control transaction ineligible for pooling of interests accounting that but for
Section 13(a) would otherwise be eligible for such accounting treatment, the
Committee shall have the ability to substitute the cash payable pursuant to
Section 13(a) with Common Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to the cash that
would otherwise be payable thereunder.

14.  GOVERNING LAW

     To the extent that federal laws do not otherwise control, this Plan shall
be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of Ohio.

15.  INDEMNIFICATION

     Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee or of the
Board shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation against and from
any loss, cost, liability or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably
incurred by him in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit or
proceeding to which he may be a party or in which he may be involved by reason
of any action taken or failure to act under this Plan and against and from any
and all amounts paid by him in settlement thereof, with the Corporation's
approval, or paid by him in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action,
suit or proceeding against him, provided he shall give the Corporation an
opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he
undertakes to handle and defend it on his own behalf. The foregoing right of
indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to
which such persons may be entitled under the Corporation's Articles of
Incorporation or Code of Regulations, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any
power that the Corporation may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.

-9-
 
16.  SAVINGS CLAUSE

     This Plan is intended to comply in all aspects with applicable law and
regulation, including, with respect to those Employees who are Reporting
Persons, Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. In case any one or more of the
provisions of this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any
respect under applicable law and regulation (including Rule 16b-3), the
validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in
any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or
unenforceable provision shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent
permissible by laws, any provision which could be deemed null and void shall
first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Plan to
be construed in compliance with all applicable laws (including Rule 16b-3) so as
to foster the intent of this Plan. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the
contrary, the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may bifurcate this
Plan so as to restrict, limit or condition the use of any provision of this Plan
to Participants who are Reporting Persons without so restricting, limiting or
conditioning this Plan with respect to other Participants.

17.  EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM

     The effective date of this Plan is April 17, 1995 subject to its approval
by the Corporation's shareholders at their next annual meeting or at any
adjournment thereof, within twelve months following the date of its adoption by
the Board. This Plan shall remain in effect until terminated by the Board.

Amended:
 Oct. 1996 - Section 2 - Definition of Committee
             Section 9(f)  - Tax Withholding
 Jan. 1997 - Section 9(a)  - Assignability
 Jan. 1998 - Section 10 - Amendments - former Section 10(b) deleted
             Section 13(a) - Change of Control
             Section 13(c) - Change of Control added

Revised 5/30/97
Revised 6/2/97 (tab spacing change only)
Revised 2/27/98
Revised 3/10/98 (correct two typos)

-10-

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.20>
 15
 y74757exv10w20.htm
 EX-10.20: FORM OF LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS

EX-10.20 

Exhibit 10.20

JPMORGAN CHASE   CO. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF JANUARY 20, 2009 
STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS 

Award Agreement 

These terms and conditions are made part of the Award Agreement dated as of
January 20, 2009 ( Grant Date ) awarding Stock Appreciation Rights pursuant
to the terms of the JPMorgan Chase   Co. Long-Term Incentive Plan ( Plan ).
To the extent the terms of the Award Agreement (all references to which
will include these terms and conditions) conflict with the Plan, the Plan
will govern. The Award Agreement, the Plan and Prospectus supersede any
other agreement, whether written or oral, that may have been entered into
by the Firm and you relating to this award.

This award was granted on the Grant Date subject to the Award Agreement.
 Unless you decline by the deadline and in the manner specified in the Award
Agreement, you will have agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions,
effective as of the Grant Date.  If you decline the award, it will be
cancelled as of the Grant Date.

Capitalized terms that are not defined in the Award Agreement will have the
same meaning as set forth in the Plan.

JPMorgan Chase   Co. will be referred to throughout the Award Agreement as
 JPMorgan Chase,  and together with its subsidiaries as the  Firm. 

Form and Purpose of Award 

Stock Appreciation Rights represent the right, following exercise, to
receive (without payment), a number of shares of JPMorgan Chase Common
Stock, the Fair Market Value of which, as of the date of exercise, is equal
to the excess of the Fair Market Value of one share of such Common Stock on
such exercise date over the Exercise Price, multiplied by the number of
Stock Appreciation Rights being exercised. The Firm will retain from each
distribution the number of shares of Common Stock required to satisfy tax
withholding obligations.

The purpose of this award is, in part, to motivate your future performance
and to align your interests with those of the Firm and its shareholders.

Exercisable Dates/Expiration 
Date 

Your award will become exercisable on the  Exercisable Dates  set forth in
your Award Agreement, provided that you are continuously employed by the
Firm from the date of grant through the relevant Exercisable Date or you
meet the requirements to allow your award to remain outstanding upon
termination of employment as described below. Your award will remain
exercisable until the  earlier of  the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date
(the  Expiration Date ) or the date the award is cancelled pursuant to this
Award Agreement. No Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised after its
Expiration Date.

Termination of Employment 

Except as explicitly set forth below under  Job Elimination,   Full Career
Eligibility  and  Death or Total Disability,  any Stock Appreciation Rights
outstanding under this award will be cancelled effective on the date your
employment with the Firm terminates for any reason.

Job Elimination: 

In the event that the Director Human Resources of the Firm or nominee in
their sole discretion determine that the Firm terminated your employment
because your job was eliminated, and provided that you continue to provide
services in a cooperative and professional manner as requested by the Firm
until the date your employment terminates (and subject to  Your
Obligations  and the other terms of this award), then any Stock
Appreciation Rights that were exercisable on your termination date will
remain exercisable for the ninety-day period immediately following your
termination date, but in no event beyond the Expiration Date.

You will be required to timely execute and deliver a release of claims in
favor of the Firm, having such form and terms as the Firm shall specify, to
have all or any portion of your award remain exercisable after the
termination of your employment and you must certify compliance

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights (continued) 

with the
above requirements on a form provided by the Firm in connection with an
exercise. If you fail to return the required release within the specified
deadline, your outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights will be cancelled.

Full Career Eligibility: 

Any Stock Appreciation Rights that were exercisable as of the date of your
employment termination will remain exercisable for a two year period
following your termination date but in no event beyond the Expiration Date
in the event that:

you leave the Firm voluntarily, have completed at least five years
of continuous service with the Firm immediately preceding your termination
date,  and 

the sum of your age and Recognized Service (as defined below) on
your date of termination equals or exceeds 60,  and 

you provide at least 90 days advance written notice to the Firm of
your intention to voluntarily terminate your employment under this
provision during which notice period you provide such services as requested
by the Firm in a cooperative and professional manner and you do not perform
any services for any other employer,  and 

for the two year period following your termination date, you do not
(i) perform services in any capacity (including self-employment) for a
Financial Services Company (as defined below) or (ii) work in your
profession (whether or not for a non-Financial Services Company); provided
that you may work for a government, education or Not-for-Profit
Organization (as defined below).

After receipt of such advance written notice, the Firm may choose to have
you continue to provide services during the 90-day period or shorten the
length of the 90-day notice period at the Firm s discretion, but to a date
no earlier than the date you would otherwise meet the age and service
requirements.

Additional advance notice requirements may apply in certain business units
(or equivalent organizational unit or department).  (See  Special Notice
Period  below.) 

You will be required to timely execute and deliver a release of claims in
favor of the Firm, having such form and terms as the Firm shall specify, to
have all or any portion of your award remain exercisable after the
termination of your employment and you must certify compliance with the
above requirements on a form provided by the Firm in connection with an
exercise. If you fail to return the required release within the specified
deadline, your outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights will be cancelled.
With respect to full career eligibility, you must notify JPMorgan Chase in
advance in writing if you are to perform services for any party or if you
are self-employed following the date of your termination of employment.
Failure to provide such notification could impact your right to exercise.

Death or Total Disability: 

If you die while employed by the Firm, or in the event your employment
terminates as a result of your permanent and total disability as defined in
the JPMorgan Chase   Co. Long Term Disability Plan (or for non-U.S.
employees the equivalent local country plan), then any Stock Appreciation
Rights that were exercisable as of the date of your termination will remain
exercisable for a two year period following your termination date but in no
event beyond the Expiration Date.

In the case of your total disability, you must notify JPMorgan Chase in
advance in writing if you are to perform services for any party or if you
are self-employed following the date of your termination of employment.

In the case of death, your beneficiary is the designated beneficiary on
file with the Human Resources Department, or if no beneficiary has been
designated or survives you, then your

2 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights (continued) 

estate.

Any Stock Appreciation Rights that are not exercised within the applicable
two year period set forth above will be cancelled.

Termination for Cause 

In the event your employment is terminated for Cause (as defined below), or
in the event that the Firm determines after the termination of your
employment that your employment could have been terminated for Cause, any
outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights as of your termination date will be
cancelled and you may be required to return to the Firm the value of
certain shares previously delivered to you. See  Remedies  for additional
information.

Restriction on Disposition
of Shares Derived from an
Exercise Under this Award 

If you exercise any part of your award before the fifth anniversary of the
Grant Date, then you may not sell, assign, transfer, pledge or encumber the
net number of shares of Common Stock derived from such exercise until the
fifth anniversary of the Grant Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this
restriction on disposition and transfer of shares shall not apply to your
beneficiary in the event of your death.

Your Obligations 

As consideration for the grant of this award, you agree to comply with and
be bound by the following:

Non-Solicitation of Employees and Customers: 

During your employment by the Firm and for one year following the
termination of your employment (or if longer, the exercise period), you
will not directly or indirectly, whether on your own behalf or on behalf of
any other party, without the prior written consent of the Director Human
Resources of JPMorgan Chase: (i) solicit, induce or encourage any of the
Firm s then current employees to leave the Firm or to apply for employment
elsewhere; (ii) hire any employee or former employee who was employed by
the Firm at the date your employment terminated, unless the individual s
employment terminated more than six months before the date of hire or
because his or her job was eliminated; or (iii) solicit or induce or
attempt to induce to leave the Firm, or divert or attempt to divert from
doing business with the Firm, any then current customers, suppliers or
other persons or entities that were serviced by you or whose names became
known to you by virtue of your employment with the Firm, or otherwise
interfere with the relationship between the Firm and such customers,
suppliers or other persons or entities. This does not apply to publicly
known institutional customers that you service after your employment with
the Firm without the use of the Firm s confidential or proprietary
information.

These restrictions do not apply to authorized actions you take in the
normal course of your employment with the Firm, such as employment
decisions with respect to employees you supervise or business referrals in
accordance with the Firm s policies . 

Confidential Information: 

You may not, either during your employment with the Firm or thereafter,
directly or indirectly use or disclose to anyone any confidential
information related to the Firm s business, except as explicitly permitted
by the JPMorgan Chase Code of Conduct and applicable policies or law or
legal process.  Confidential information  shall have the same meaning for
the Award Agreement as it has in the JPMorgan Chase Code of Conduct.

Non-Disparagement: 

You may not, either during your employment with the Firm or thereafter,
make or encourage others to make any public statement or release any
information that is intended to, or reasonably could be foreseen to,
embarrass or criticize the Firm or its employees, directors or shareholders
as a group. This shall not preclude you from reporting to the Firm s
management or directors or to the government or a regulator conduct you
believe to be in violation of the law or the Firm s Code of Conduct or
responding truthfully to questions or requests for information to the
government, a regulator or in a court of law in connection with a legal or
regulatory investigation or proceeding.

Cooperation 

You agree to cooperate fully with and provide full and accurate information
to the Firm and its counsel with respect to any matter (including any
audit, tax proceeding, litigation or

3 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights (continued) 

governmental proceeding with respect
to which you may have knowledge or information, subject to reimbursement
for actual, appropriate and reasonable expenses incurred by you.

Compliance with
Award Agreement: 

You agree that you will provide the Firm with any information reasonably
requested to determine compliance with the Award Agreement, and you
authorize the Firm to disclose the terms of the Award Agreement to any
third party who might be affected thereby, including your prospective
employer.

Special Notice
Period: 

If you are a managing director, executive director or vice president (or
comparable title) of a business unit or equivalent organizational unit or
department ( business unit ) that requires as a condition of your continued
employment that you provide advance written notice ( Special Notice
Period ) of your intention to terminate your employment for any reason,
then as consideration for this Award, you shall provide the Firm advance
written notice of your election to terminate your employment as specified
by such business unit. In business units that require this Special Notice
Period, the current notice period is 90 days for managing directors (or
comparable title), 60 days for executive directors (or comparable title)
and 30 days for vice presidents (or comparable title). Please note that in
some cases, individuals may have specific agreements providing for longer
notice periods than those stated above. In those cases, the longer notice
period shall apply.

After receipt of such notice, the Firm may choose to have you continue to
provide services during the applicable Special Notice Period or may place
you on a paid leave for all or part of the applicable Special Notice
Period. During the Special Notice Period, you shall continue to devote
your full time and loyalty to the Firm by providing services in a
cooperative and professional manner and not perform any services for any
other employer and shall receive your base salary and certain benefits
until your employment terminates. You and the Firm may mutually agree to
waive or modify the length of the Special Notice Period.

Regardless of whether the Special Notice Period applies to you, you must
comply with the 90-day advance notice period described under  Full Career
Eligibility  in the event you wish to terminate employment under the Full
Career Eligibility provision.

Remedies 

In addition to the cancellation of the award as provided for in
 Termination of Employment  and  Termination for Cause,  if the Firm in its
sole discretion determines that (i) you are not in compliance with any of
the advance notice/cooperation requirements or employment restrictions
applicable to your termination of employment, or (ii) you have not returned
the applicable release of claims or other documents specified above within
the specified deadline, or (iii) you violated any of the provisions as set
forth above in  Your Obligations,  all outstanding Stock Appreciation
Rights under your award and any shares that are subject to the restriction
on disposition of shares described above will be immediately cancelled.

In addition, if you received shares under this award resulting from an
exercise during the one year prior to (i) the violation of any of the
provisions as set forth above in  Your Obligations  or (ii) the termination
of your employment for  Cause  as described under  Termination for Cause, 
including a later determination by the Firm that your employment could have
been terminated for Cause (in which case the one year will be measured from
your actual termination date), you will be required to pay the Firm
liquidated damages by returning to the Firm an amount equal to the gain on
exercise (as of the exercise date), less withholding taxes. Payment may be
made in shares of Common Stock or in cash.

You agree that this payment will be liquidated damages and is not to be
construed in any manner as a penalty. You acknowledge that a violation or
attempted violation of the obligations set forth herein will cause
immediate and irreparable damage to the Firm, and therefore agree that the
Firm shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction, from any
court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any violation or further
violation of such obligations; such right to an injunction, however, shall
be cumulative and in addition to whatever other remedies the Firm may have
under law or equity. In any action or proceeding by the Firm to enforce
the terms and

4 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights (continued) 

conditions of this Award Agreement where the Firm is the
prevailing party, the Firm shall be entitled to recover from you its
reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses incurred in such action or
proceeding.

Not a Shareholder Until 
Exercise 

You shall not be deemed for any purpose to be or have rights as a
shareholder of JPMorgan Chase with respect to the shares of Common Stock
subject to Stock Appreciation Rights until such Stock Appreciation Rights
are exercised. No adjustments shall be made for cash dividends or
distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the
date you become a shareholder of record of JPMorgan Chase. Shares upon
exercise will be issued in accordance with JPMorgan Chase s procedures for
issuing stock.

Additional Conditions 

Notwithstanding any terms of this Award Agreement to the contrary:

JPMorgan Chase reserves the right to cancel, or require repayment
of any gains you derived from the exercise of, all or any portion of this
award to the extent provided under the JPMorgan Chase Bonus Recoupment
Policy as in effect from time to time.

JPMorgan Chase reserves the right to cancel, or require repayment
of any gains you derived from exercise of, all or any portion of this award
if JPMorgan Chase determines that this award was based on materially
inaccurate performance metrics or on any misrepresentation by you.

If you are subject to Section 111 of the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 and any regulations or interpretations
promulgated thereunder or any other applicable statute or regulation
affecting your compensation ( EESA or Other Applicable Law ), then any
payment of any kind provided for by this Award Agreement must comply with
EESA or Other Applicable Law, and this Award Agreement shall be interpreted
or reformed to so comply.

Administrative Provisions 

Binding Agreement:  The Award Agreement will be binding upon any successor
in interest to JPMorgan Chase, by merger or otherwise.

Not a Contract of Employment:  Nothing contained herein constitutes a
contract of employment or continued employment. Employment is at-will and
may be terminated by either you or JPMorgan Chase for any reason at any
time. This award does not confer any right or entitlement to, nor does the
award impose any obligation on the Firm to provide, the same or any similar
award in the future.

Exercise Procedures/Withholding Taxes : The exercise of Stock Appreciation
Rights shall be in accordance with the Firm s procedures for exercises of
such awards. The date of exercise shall be the date when the properly
completed notice of exercise is received and accepted by the Firm or its
designee in accordance with the Firm s procedures.

Following each exercise, the Firm will retain from each distribution the
number of shares of Common Stock required to satisfy applicable tax
obligations (including, to the extent legally permissible, recovery by the
Firm of fringe benefit taxes). If, according to local country tax
regulations, a withholding tax liability arises at a time after the date of
exercise, JPMorgan Chase may implement any procedures necessary to ensure
that the withholding obligation is fully satisfied, including, but not
limited to, restricting transferability of the shares.

Assignment or Transfer:  Except as otherwise provided in this Award
Agreement, ,Stock Appreciation Rights shall not be assignable or
transferable or subject to any lien, obligation or liability. You may make
a gift of unexpired, unexercised Stock Appreciation Rights, subject to the
Firm s prior consent, to an immediate family member or a trust (or similar
vehicle) for the benefit of these immediate family members (or
beneficiaries) as defined below. JPMorgan Chase may condition its prior
consent to receipt of an agreement by you and proposed transferee
containing such terms and conditions and undertakings as JPMorgan Chase
deems appropriate in its sole and absolute discretion. No attempted
transfer will be valid without the Firm s prior consent.  Immediate family
members  include your parents, parents-in-law, children

5 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights (continued) 

(including adopted
children), grandchildren, and siblings or a trust exclusively for the
benefit of one or more of these immediate family members. Your spouse is an
Immediate Family Member but only if Stock Appreciation Rights are
transferred to a trust (or similar vehicle) for the benefit of such spouse,
which trust includes one or more other Immediate Family Members as
beneficiaries.

Right to Set Off:  The Firm may, to the maximum extent permitted by
applicable law, retain for itself funds or securities otherwise payable to
you pursuant to this award to satisfy any obligation or debt that you owe
to the Firm. Other than in the case of forfeiture or cancellation of an
award, the Firm may not retain such funds or securities until such time as
they would otherwise be distributable to you in accordance with the Award
Agreement.

Cancellation/Substitution : JPMorgan Chase may, in its sole discretion and
for any reason, cancel outstanding unexercised Stock Appreciation Rights
and substitute an equal number of non-qualified stock options to purchase
the same number of shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase represented by
the cancelled Stock Appreciation Rights. Such substituted options shall
have the same exercise price, Expiration Date and other terms and
conditions that were applicable to the Stock Appreciation Rights; provided
that the method of exercise and the payment of exercise price, as well as
the method of payment of withholding taxes, may be changed by JPMorgan
Chase.

Change in Outstanding Shares:  In the event of any change in the
outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend or
split, recapitalization, issuance of a new class of common stock, merger,
consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares or other similar
corporate change, or any distributions to stockholders of Common Stock
other than regular cash dividends, the Committee will make an equitable
substitution or proportionate adjustment, in the number or kind of shares
of Common Stock or other securities issued or reserved for issuance
pursuant to the Plan and to any Stock Appreciation Rights (including but
not to limited to their Exercise Price) outstanding under this award for
such corporate events.

Interpretation/Administration:  The Director Human Resources has sole and
complete authority to interpret and administer this Award Agreement,
including, without limitation, the power to (i) interpret the Plan and the
terms of this Award Agreement; (ii) determine the reason for termination of
employment and application of the post-employment obligations; (iii) decide
all claims arising with respect to this Award; and (iv) delegate such
authority as he deems appropriate. Any determination by the Director Human
Resources shall be binding on all parties.

Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Firm s determinations
under the Plan and the Award Agreements are not required to be uniform. By
way of clarification, the Firm shall be entitled to make non-uniform and
selective determinations and modifications under Award Agreements and the
Plan.

Amendment:  The Firm by action of its Director Human Resources reserves the
right to amend this Award Agreement in any manner, at any time and for any
reason so long as there has not been a change in control of JPMorgan
Chase, as such term is defined by the JPMorgan Chase Board of Directors
from time to time. After a change in control of JPMorgan Chase, this Award
Agreement may not be amended in any way that is adverse to your interests
without your prior written consent. This Award Agreement may not be amended
except in writing signed by the Director Human Resources JPMorgan Chase.

Severability:  If any portion of the Award Agreement is found to be
unenforceable, any court of competent jurisdiction may reform the
restrictions (e.g. as to length of service, geographical area or scope) to
the extent required to make the provision enforceable under applicable law.

Governing Law:  By accepting this award, you are agreeing (i) to the
extent not preempted by federal law, the laws of the state of New York
(without reference to conflict of law principles) will

6 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights (continued) 

apply to the award
and the Plan;(ii) to waive the right to a jury trial with respect to any
judicial proceeding brought in connection with this award; and (iii) that
any dispute related to this award shall be submitted to arbitration in
accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association, if so
elected by the Firm in its sole discretion.

Definitions 

Cause   means a determination by the Firm that your employment terminated
as a result of your (i) violation of any law, rule or regulation (including
rules of self-regulatory bodies) related to the Firm s business; (ii)
indictment or conviction of a felony; (iii) commission of a fraudulent act;
(iv) violation of the JPMorgan Code of Conduct or other Firm policies or
misconduct related to your duties to the Firm (other than an immaterial
and inadvertent violation or misconduct); (v) inadequate performance of
the duties associated with your position or job function or failure to
follow reasonable directives of your manager; or (vi) any act or failure to
act that is or might reasonably be expected to be injurious to the
interests of the Firm or its relationship with a customer, client or
employee.

Financial Services Company   means a business enterprise that employs you
in any capacity (as an employee, contractor, consultant, advisor,
self-employed individual, etc. whether paid or unpaid) and engages in:

commercial or retail banking, including, but not limited to,
commercial, institutional and personal trust, custody and/or lending and
processing services, originating and servicing mortgages, issuing and
servicing credit cards;

insurance , including but not limited to, guaranteeing against
loss, harm damage, illness, disability or death, providing and issuing
annuities, acting as principal, agent or broker for purpose of the
forgoing;

financial, investment or economic advisory services, including but
not limited to, investment banking services (such as advising on mergers or
dispositions, underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities or
other similar activities), brokerage services, investment management
services, asset management services, and hedge funds;

issuing, trading or selling instruments representing interests in
pools of assets or in derivatives instruments;

advising on, or investing in, private equity or real estate, or

any similar activities that JPMorgan Chase determines in its sole
discretion constitutes financial services.

Not-for-Profit Organization   means an entity exempt from tax under state
law and under Section 501(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Section
501(c) (3) includes entities organized and operated exclusively for
religious, charitable, scientific, testing for public safety, literary or
educational purposes, or to foster national or international amateur sports
competition or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals.

Recognized Service   means the period of service as an employee set forth
in the Firm s applicable service-related policies.

7 

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.21>
 16
 y74757exv10w21.htm
 EX-10.21: FORM OF LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR OPERATING COMMITTEE MEMBER STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS

EX-10.21 

Exhibit 10.21

JPMORGAN CHASE   CO. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF JANUARY 20, 2009 
STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS 
OPERATING COMMITTEE 

Award Agreement 

These terms and conditions are made part of the Award Agreement dated as of
January 20, 2009 ( Grant Date ) awarding Stock Appreciation Rights pursuant
to the terms of the JPMorgan Chase   Co. Long-Term Incentive Plan ( Plan ).
To the extent the terms of the Award Agreement (all references to which
will include these terms and conditions) conflict with the Plan, the Plan
will govern. The Award Agreement, the Plan and Prospectus supersede any
other agreement, whether written or oral, that may have been entered into
by the Firm and you relating to this award.

This award was granted on the Grant Date subject to the Award Agreement.
 Unless you decline by the deadline and in the manner specified in the Award
Agreement, you will have agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions,
effective as of the Grant Date.  If you decline the award, it will be
cancelled as of the Grant Date.

Capitalized terms that are not defined in the Award Agreement will have the
same meaning as set forth in the Plan.

JPMorgan Chase   Co. will be referred to throughout the Award Agreement as
 JPMorgan Chase,  and together with its subsidiaries as the  Firm. 

Form and Purpose of Award 

Stock Appreciation Rights represent the right, following exercise, to
receive (without payment), a number of shares of JPMorgan Chase Common
Stock, the Fair Market Value of which, as of the date of exercise, is equal
to the excess of the Fair Market Value of one share of such Common Stock on
such exercise date over the Exercise Price, multiplied by the number of
Stock Appreciation Rights being exercised. The Firm will retain from each
distribution the number of shares of Common Stock required to satisfy tax
withholding obligations.

The purpose of this award is, in part, to motivate your future performance
and to align your interests with those of the Firm and its shareholders.

Exercisable Dates/ Expiration
Date  
       
      Your award will become exercisable on the  Exercisable Dates  set forth in
your Award Agreement, provided that you are continuously employed by the
Firm from the date of grant through the relevant Exercisable Date or you
meet the requirements to allow your award to remain outstanding upon
termination of employment as described below, and subject to the following:

Although it is intended and expected that this award will become
exercisable as scheduled, the award may be reduced or cancelled or
Exercisable Dates may be deferred in the event that the Chief Executive
Officer ( CEO ) of JPMorgan Chase determines, as part of JPMorgan Chase s
annual performance assessment process, based on the CEO s assessment of
your performance and the performance of the Firm (which may include more
than one performance year), that you have not achieved satisfactory
progress toward your priorities or that the Firm has not achieved
satisfactory progress toward the Firm s priorities for which you share
responsibility as a member of the Operating Committee. Such a determination
is subject to ratification by the Compensation and Management Development
Committee of the Board of Directors of JPMorgan Chase.

JPMorgan Chase reserves the right to cancel, or require repayment
of any gains you derived from the exercise of, all or any portion of this
award to the extent provided under the JPMorgan Chase Bonus Recoupment
Policy as in effect from time to time.

JPMorgan Chase reserves the right to cancel, or require repayment
of any gains you derived from exercise of, all or any portion of this award
if JPMorgan Chase determines that this award was based on materially
inaccurate performance metrics or on any misrepresentation by you.

If you are subject to Section 111 of the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 and any regulations or interpretations
promulgated thereunder, or any successor or other

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights   Operating Committee (continued)  

applicable statute
affecting your compensation ( EESA or Other Applicable Law ), then any
payment of any kind provided for by this Award Agreement must comply with
EESA or Other Applicable Law, and this Award Agreement shall be interpreted
or reformed to so comply.

Your award will remain exercisable until the  earlier of  the tenth
anniversary of the Grant Date (the  Expiration Date ) or the date the award
is cancelled pursuant to this Award Agreement. No Stock Appreciation Right
may be exercised after its Expiration Date.

Termination of Employment 

Except as explicitly set forth below under  Job Elimination,   Full Career
Eligibility  and  Death or Total Disability,  any Stock Appreciation Rights
outstanding under this award will be cancelled effective on the date your
employment with the Firm terminates for any reason.

Job Elimination: 

In the event that the Director Human Resources of the Firm or nominee in
their sole discretion determine that the Firm terminated your employment
because your job was eliminated, and provided that you continue to provide
services in a cooperative and professional manner as requested by the Firm
until the date your employment terminates, then any Stock Appreciation
Rights that were exercisable on your termination date will remain
exercisable for the ninety-day period immediately following your
termination date, but in no event beyond the Expiration Date.

You will be required to timely execute and deliver a release of claims in
favor of the Firm, having such form and terms as the Firm shall specify, to
have all or any portion of your award remain exercisable after the
termination of your employment and you must certify compliance with the
above requirements on a form provided by the Firm in connection with an
exercise. If you fail to return the required release within the specified
deadline, your outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights will be cancelled.

Full Career Eligibility: 

Any Stock Appreciation Rights that were exercisable as of the date of your
employment termination will remain exercisable for a two year period
following your termination date but in no event beyond the Expiration Date
in the event that:

you leave the Firm voluntarily, have completed at least five years
of continuous service with the Firm immediately preceding your termination
date,  and 

the sum of your age and Recognized Service (as defined below) on
your date of termination equals or exceeds 60,  and 

you provide at least 90 days advance written notice to the Firm of
your intention to voluntarily terminate your employment under this
provision during which notice period you provide such services as requested
by the Firm in a cooperative and professional manner and you do not perform
any services for any other employer,  and 

for the two year period following your termination date, you do not
(i) perform services in any capacity (including self-employment) for a
Financial Services Company (as defined below) or (ii) work in your
profession (whether or not for a non-Financial Services Company); provided
that you may work for a government, education or Not-for-Profit
Organization (as defined below).

After receipt of such advance written notice, the Firm may choose to have
you continue to provide services during the 90-day period or shorten the
length of the 90-day notice period at the Firm s discretion, but to a date
no earlier than the date you would otherwise meet the age and service
requirements.

Additional advance notice requirements may apply in certain business units
(or equivalent organizational unit or department).  (See  Special Notice
Period  below.) 

You will be required to timely execute and deliver a release of claims in
favor of the Firm, having such form and terms as the Firm shall specify, to
have all or any portion of your award

2 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights   Operating Committee (continued)  

remain exercisable after the
termination of your employment and you must certify compliance with the
above requirements on a form provided by the Firm in connection with an
exercise. If you fail to return the required release within the specified
deadline, your outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights will be cancelled

With respect to full career eligibility, you must notify JPMorgan Chase in
advance in writing if you are to perform services for any party or if you
are self-employed following the date of your termination of employment.
Failure to provide such notification could impact your right to exercise.

Death or Total Disability: 

If you die while employed by the Firm, or in the event your employment
terminates as a result of your permanent and total disability as defined in
the JPMorgan Chase   Co. Long Term Disability Plan (or for non-U.S.
employees the equivalent local country plan), then any Stock Appreciation
Rights that were exercisable as of the date of your termination will remain
exercisable for a two year period following your termination date but in no
event beyond the Expiration Date.

In the case of your total disability, you must notify JPMorgan Chase in
advance in writing if you are to perform services for any party or if you
are self-employed following the date of your termination of employment.

In the case of death, your beneficiary is the designated beneficiary on
file with the Human Resources Department, or if no beneficiary has been
designated or survives you, then your estate.

Any Stock Appreciation Rights that are not exercised within the applicable
two year period set forth above will be cancelled.

Termination for Cause: 

In the event your employment is terminated for Cause (as defined below), or
in the event that the Firm determines after the termination of your
employment that your employment could have been terminated for Cause, any
outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights as of your termination date will be
cancelled and you may be required to return to the Firm the value of
certain shares previously delivered to you. See  Remedies  for additional
information.

Restriction on Disposition
of Shares Derived from an
Exercise Under this Award 

If you exercise any part of your award before the fifth anniversary of the
Grant Date, then you may not sell, assign, transfer, pledge or encumber the
net number of shares of Common Stock derived from such exercise until the
fifth anniversary of the Grant Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this
restriction on disposition and transfer of shares shall not apply to your
beneficiary in the event of your death.

Your Obligations 

As consideration for the grant of this award, you agree to comply with and
be bound by the following:

Non-Solicitation of
Employees and Customers: 

During your employment by the Firm and for one year following the
termination of your employment (or if longer, the exercise period), you
will not directly or indirectly, whether on your own behalf or on behalf of
any other party, without the prior written consent of the Director Human
Resources of JPMorgan Chase: (i) solicit, induce or encourage any of the
Firm s then current employees to leave the Firm or to apply for employment
elsewhere; (ii) hire any employee or former employee who was employed by
the Firm at the date your employment terminated, unless the individual s
employment terminated more than six months before the date of hire or
because his or her job was eliminated; or (iii) solicit or induce or
attempt to induce to leave the Firm, or divert or attempt to divert from
doing business with the Firm, any then current customers, suppliers or
other persons or entities that were serviced by you or whose names became
known to you by virtue of your employment with the Firm, or otherwise
interfere with the

3 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights   Operating Committee (continued)  

relationship between the Firm and such customers,
suppliers or other persons or entities. This does not apply to publicly
known institutional customers that you service after your employment with
the Firm without the use of the Firm s confidential or proprietary
information.

These restrictions do not apply to authorized actions you take in the
normal course of your employment with the Firm, such as employment
decisions with respect to employees you supervise or business referrals in
accordance with the Firm s policies . 

Confidential
Information: 

You may not, either during your employment with the Firm or thereafter,
directly or indirectly use or disclose to anyone any confidential
information related to the Firm s business, except as explicitly permitted
by the JPMorgan Chase Code of Conduct and applicable policies or law or
legal process.  Confidential information  shall have the same meaning for
the Award Agreement as it has in the JPMorgan Chase Code of Conduct.

Non-Disparagement: 

You may not, either during your employment with the Firm or thereafter,
make or encourage others to make any public statement or release any
information that is intended to, or reasonably could be foreseen to,
embarrass or criticize the Firm or its employees, directors or shareholders
as a group. This shall not preclude you from reporting to the Firm s
management or directors or to the government or a regulator conduct you
believe to be in violation of the law or the Firm s Code of Conduct or
responding truthfully to questions or requests for information to the
government, a regulator or in a court of law in connection with a legal or
regulatory investigation or proceeding.

Cooperation 

You agree to cooperate fully with and provide full and accurate information
to the Firm and its counsel with respect to any matter (including any
audit, tax proceeding, litigation or governmental proceeding with respect
to which you may have knowledge or information, subject to reimbursement
for actual, appropriate and reasonable expenses incurred by you.

Compliance with
Award Agreement: 

You agree that you will provide the Firm with any information reasonably
requested to determine compliance with the Award Agreement, and you
authorize the Firm to disclose the terms of the Award Agreement to any
third party who might be affected thereby, including your prospective
employer.

Special Notice
Period: 

If you are at or above the level of managing director, executive director
or vice president (or comparable title) of a business unit or equivalent
organizational unit or department ( business unit ) that requires as a
condition of your continued employment that you provide advance written
notice ( Special Notice Period ) of your intention to terminate your
employment for any reason, then as consideration for this Award, you shall
provide the Firm advance written notice of your election to terminate your
employment as specified by such business unit. In business units that
require this Special Notice Period, the current notice period is 90 days
for managing directors (or comparable title), 60 days for executive
directors (or comparable title) and 30 days for vice presidents (or
comparable title). Please note that in some cases, individuals may have
specific agreements providing for longer notice periods than those stated
above. In those cases, the longer notice period shall apply.

After receipt of such notice, the Firm may choose to have you continue to
provide services during the applicable Special Notice Period or may place
you on a paid leave for all or part of the applicable Special Notice
Period. During the Special Notice Period, you shall continue to devote
your full time and loyalty to the Firm by providing services in a
cooperative and professional manner and not perform any services for any
other employer and shall receive your base salary and certain benefits
until your employment terminates. You and the Firm may mutually agree to
waive or modify the length of the Special Notice Period.

Regardless of whether the Special Notice Period applies to you, you must
comply with the 90-day advance notice period described under  Full Career
Eligibility  in the event you wish to terminate employment under the Full
Career Eligibility provision.

4 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights   Operating Committee (continued)  

Remedies 

In addition to the cancellation of the award as provided for in
 Termination of Employment  and  Termination for Cause,  if the Firm in its
sole discretion determines that (i) you are not in compliance with any of
the advance notice/cooperation requirements or employment restrictions
applicable to your termination of employment, or (ii) you have not returned
the applicable release of claims or other documents specified above within
the specified deadline, or (iii) you violated any of the provisions as set
forth above in  Your Obligations,  all outstanding Stock Appreciation
Rights under your award and any shares that are subject to the restriction
on disposition of shares described above will be immediately cancelled.

In addition, if you received shares under this award resulting from an
exercise during the one year prior to (i) the violation of any of the
provisions as set forth above in  Your Obligations  or (ii) the termination
of your employment for  Cause  as described under  Termination for Cause, 
including a later determination by the Firm that your employment could have
been terminated for Cause (in which case the one year will be measured from
your actual termination date), you will be required to pay the Firm
liquidated damages by returning to the Firm an amount equal to the gain on
exercise (as of the exercise date), less withholding taxes. Payment may be
made in shares of Common Stock or in cash.

You agree that this payment will be liquidated damages and is not to be
construed in any manner as a penalty. You acknowledge that a violation or
attempted violation of the obligations set forth herein will cause
immediate and irreparable damage to the Firm, and therefore agree that the
Firm shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction, from any
court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any violation or further
violation of such obligations; such right to an injunction, however, shall
be cumulative and in addition to whatever other remedies the Firm may have
under law or equity. In any action or proceeding by the Firm to enforce
the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement where the Firm is the
prevailing party, the Firm shall be entitled to recover from you its
reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses incurred in such action or
proceeding.

Administrative Provisions 

Binding Agreement:  The Award Agreement will be binding upon any successor
in interest to JPMorgan Chase, by merger or otherwise.

Not a Contract of Employment:  Nothing contained herein constitutes a
contract of employment or continued employment. Employment is at-will and
may be terminated by either you or JPMorgan Chase for any reason at any
time. This award does not confer any right or entitlement to, nor does the
award impose any obligation on the Firm to provide, the same or any similar
award in the future.

Exercise Procedures/Withholding Taxes : The exercise of Stock Appreciation
Rights shall be in accordance with the Firm s procedures for exercises of
such awards. The date of exercise shall be the date when the properly
completed notice of exercise is received and accepted by the Firm or its
designee in accordance with the Firm s procedures.

Following each exercise, the Firm will retain from each distribution the
number of shares of Common Stock required to satisfy applicable tax
obligations (including, to the extent legally permissible, recovery by the
Firm of fringe benefit taxes). If, according to local country tax
regulations, a withholding tax liability arises at a time after the date of
exercise, JPMorgan Chase may implement any procedures necessary to ensure
that the withholding obligation is fully satisfied, including, but not
limited to, restricting transferability of the shares.

Assignment or Transfer:  Except as otherwise provided in this Award
Agreement, ,Stock Appreciation Rights shall not be assignable or
transferable or subject to any lien, obligation or liability. You may make
a gift of unexpired, unexercised Stock Appreciation Rights, subject to the
Firm s prior consent, to an immediate family member or a trust (or similar
vehicle) for the benefit of these immediate family members (or
beneficiaries) as defined below. JPMorgan

5 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights   Operating Committee (continued)  

Chase may condition its prior
consent to receipt of an agreement by you and proposed transferee
containing such terms and conditions and undertakings as JPMorgan Chase
deems appropriate in its sole and absolute discretion. No attempted
transfer will be valid without the Firm s prior consent.  Immediate family
members  include your parents, parents-in-law, children (including adopted
children), grandchildren, and siblings or a trust exclusively for the
benefit of one or more of these immediate family members. Your spouse is an
Immediate Family Member but only if Stock Appreciation Rights are
transferred to a trust (or similar vehicle) for the benefit of such spouse,
which trust includes one or more other Immediate Family Members as
beneficiaries.

Right to Set Off:  The Firm may, to the maximum extent permitted by
applicable law, retain for itself funds or securities otherwise payable to
you pursuant to this award to satisfy any obligation or debt that you owe
to the Firm. Other than in the case of forfeiture or cancellation of an
award, the Firm may not retain such funds or securities until such time as
they would otherwise be distributable to you in accordance with the Award
Agreement.

Cancellation/Substitution : JPMorgan Chase may, in its sole discretion and
for any reason, cancel outstanding unexercised Stock Appreciation Rights
and substitute an equal number of non-qualified stock options to purchase
the same number of shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase represented by
the cancelled Stock Appreciation Rights. Such substituted options shall
have the same exercise price, Expiration Date and other terms and
conditions that were applicable to the Stock Appreciation Rights; provided
that the method of exercise and the payment of exercise price, as well as
the method of payment of withholding taxes, may be changed by JPMorgan
Chase.

Change in Outstanding Shares:  In the event of any change in the
outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend or
split, recapitalization, issuance of a new class of common stock, merger,
consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares or other similar
corporate change, or any distributions to stockholders of Common Stock
other than regular cash dividends, the Committee will make an equitable
substitution or proportionate adjustment, in the number or kind of shares
of Common Stock or other securities issued or reserved for issuance
pursuant to the Plan and to any Stock Appreciation Rights (including but
not to limited to their Exercise Price) outstanding under this award for
such corporate events.

Interpretation/Administration:  The Director Human Resources has sole and
complete authority to interpret and administer this Award Agreement,
including, without limitation, the power to (i) interpret the Plan and the
terms of this Award Agreement; (ii) determine the reason for termination of
employment and application of the post-employment obligations; (iii) decide
all claims arising with respect to this Award; and (iv) delegate such
authority as he deems appropriate. Any determination by the Director Human
Resources shall be binding on all parties.

Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Firm s determinations
under the Plan and the Award Agreements are not required to be uniform. By
way of clarification, the Firm shall be entitled to make non-uniform and
selective determinations and modifications under Award Agreements and the
Plan.

Amendment:  The Firm by action of its Director Human Resources reserves the
right to amend this Award Agreement in any manner, at any time and for any
reason so long as there has not been a change in control of JPMorgan
Chase, as such term is defined by the JPMorgan Chase Board of Directors
from time to time. After a change in control of JPMorgan Chase, this Award
Agreement may not be amended in any way that is adverse to your interests
without your prior written consent. This Award Agreement may not be amended
except in writing signed by the Director Human Resources JPMorgan Chase.

Severability:  If any portion of the Award Agreement is found to be
unenforceable, any court of competent jurisdiction may reform the
restrictions (e.g. as to length of service, geographical area

6 

January 20, 2009 Stock Appreciation Rights   Operating Committee (continued)  

or scope) to
the extent required to make the provision enforceable under applicable law.

Governing Law:  By accepting this award, you are agreeing (i) to the
extent not preempted by federal law, the laws of the state of New York
(without reference to conflict of law principles) will apply to the award
and the Plan;(ii) to waive the right to a jury trial with respect to any
judicial proceeding brought in connection with this award; and (iii) that
any dispute related to this award shall be submitted to arbitration in
accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association, if so
elected by the Firm in its sole discretion.

Definitions 

Cause   means a determination by the Firm that your employment terminated
as a result of your (i) violation of any law, rule or regulation (including
rules of self-regulatory bodies) related to the Firm s business; (ii)
indictment or conviction of a felony; (iii) commission of a fraudulent act;
(iv) violation of the JPMorgan Code of Conduct or other Firm policies or
misconduct related to your duties to the Firm (other than an immaterial
and inadvertent violation or misconduct); (v) inadequate performance of
the duties associated with your position or job function or failure to
follow reasonable directives of your manager; or (vi) any act or failure to
act that is or might reasonably be expected to be injurious to the
interests of the Firm or its relationship with a customer, client or
employee.

Financial Services Company   means a business enterprise that employs you
in any capacity (as an employee, contractor, consultant, advisor,
self-employed individual, etc. whether paid or unpaid) and engages in:

commercial or retail banking, including, but not limited to,
commercial, institutional and personal trust, custody and/or lending and
processing services, originating and servicing mortgages, issuing and
servicing credit cards;

insurance , including but not limited to, guaranteeing against
loss, harm damage, illness, disability or death, providing and issuing
annuities, acting as principal, agent or broker for purpose of the
forgoing;

financial, investment or economic advisory services, including but
not limited to, investment banking services (such as advising on mergers or
dispositions, underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities or
other similar activities), brokerage services, investment management
services, asset management services, and hedge funds;

issuing, trading or selling instruments representing interests in
pools of assets or in derivatives instruments;

advising on, or investing in, private equity or real estate, or

any similar activities that JPMorgan Chase determines in its sole
discretion constitutes financial services.

Not-for-Profit Organization   means an entity exempt from tax under state
law and under Section 501(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Section
501(c) (3) includes entities organized and operated exclusively for
religious, charitable, scientific, testing for public safety, literary or
educational purposes, or to foster national or international amateur sports
competition or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals.

Recognized Service   means the period of service as an employee set forth
in the Firm s applicable service-related policies.

7 

</EX-10.21>

<EX-10.22>
 17
 y74757exv10w22.htm
 EX-10.22: FORM OF LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS

EX-10.22 

Exhibit 10.22

JPMORGAN CHASE   CO. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF JANUARY 20, 2009 
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD 

Award Agreement 

These terms and conditions are made part of the Award Agreement dated as of January 20,
2009 ( Grant Date ) awarding restricted stock units pursuant to the terms of the
JPMorgan Chase   Co. Long-Term Incentive Plan ( Plan ). To the extent the terms of the
Award Agreement (all references to which will include these terms and conditions)
conflict with the Plan, the Plan will govern. The Award Agreement, the Plan and
Prospectus supersede any other agreement, whether written or oral, that may have been
entered into by the Firm and you relating to this award.

This award was granted on the Grant Date subject to the Award Agreement.  Unless you
decline by the deadline and in the manner specified in the Award Agreement, you will
have agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, effective as of the Grant Date. 
If you decline the award, it will be cancelled as of the Grant Date.

Capitalized terms that are not defined in the Award Agreement will have the same
meaning as set forth in the Plan.

JPMorgan Chase   Co. will be referred to throughout the Award Agreement as  JPMorgan
Chase,  and together with its subsidiaries as the  Firm. 

Form and Purpose of
Award 

Each restricted stock unit represents a non-transferable right to receive one share of
Common Stock following the applicable vesting date.

The purpose of this award is, in part, to motivate your future performance and to align
your interests with those of the Firm and its shareholders.

Dividend Equivalents 

If dividends are paid on Common Stock while restricted stock units under this award are
outstanding, you will be paid an amount equal to the dividend paid on one share of
Common Stock, multiplied by the number of restricted stock units outstanding to you
under this award.

Vesting Dates/ 
Vesting Periods 

This award will vest according to the schedule on your Award Agreement, provided that
you are continuously employed by the Firm, or you meet the requirements for continued
vesting described below, through the relevant vesting date. The period from the Grant
Date to each vesting date will be a separate  vesting period. 

Termination of Employment 

Except as explicitly set forth below under  Job Elimination,   Full Career
Eligibility,   Total Disability,  and  Death,  any restricted stock units outstanding
under this award will be cancelled effective on the date your employment with the Firm
terminates for any reason.

Job Elimination, Full Career
Eligibility, Total Disability 

Subject to your compliance with the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
(including without limitation  Your Obligations  set forth below), you will be eligible
to continue to vest in your outstanding restricted stock units under this award
following the termination of your employment if one of the following circumstances
applies to you.

Job Elimination: 

This award will continue to vest on the original schedule following termination of
employment in the event that:

the Director Human Resources of the Firm or nominee in their sole discretion
determine that the Firm terminated your employment because your job was eliminated,  and 

after you are notified that your job will be eliminated, you provide such
services as requested by the Firm in a cooperative and professional manner.

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit (continued) 

Full Career Eligibility: 

This award will continue to vest on the original schedule following termination of
employment in the event that:

you leave the Firm voluntarily, have completed at least five years of
continuous service with the Firm immediately preceding your termination date, and the
sum of your age and Recognized Service (as defined below) on your date of termination
equals or exceeds 60,  and 

you provide at least 90 days advance written notice to the Firm of your
intention to voluntarily terminate your employment under this provision, during which
notice period you provide such services as requested by the Firm in a cooperative and
professional manner and you do not perform any services for any other employer,  and 

for the remainder of the relevant vesting period, you do not (i) perform
services in any capacity (including self-employment) for a Financial Services Company
(as defined below) or (ii) work in your profession (whether or not for a Financial
Services Company); provided that you may work for a government, education or
Not-for-Profit Organization (as defined below).

After receipt of such advance written notice, the Firm may choose to have you continue
to provide services during such 90-day period or shorten the length of the 90-day
period at the Firm s discretion, but to a date no earlier than the date you would
otherwise meet the age and service requirements.

Additional advance notice requirements may apply in certain business units (or
equivalent organizational unit or department).  (See  Special Notice Period  below.) 

Total Disability: 

In the event your employment terminates as a result of your permanent and total
disability as defined in the JPMorgan Chase   Co. Long Term Disability Plan (or for
non-U.S. employees the equivalent local country plan), your outstanding units will
continue to vest on the original schedule during such period of disability provided
that you remain unemployed for such period.

For both Full Career Eligibility and Total Disability, you must notify JPMorgan Chase
in writing in advance if you plan to perform services for any party or if you will be
self-employed during the vesting periods. Failure to provide such notification could
impact award vesting.

Release/Certification 

In order to qualify for continued vesting after termination of your employment under
any of the foregoing circumstances:

you must timely execute and deliver a release of claims in favor of the Firm,
having such form and terms as the Firm shall specify,

with respect to Full Career Eligibility, prior to the termination of your
employment, you must confirm with management that you meet the eligibility criteria
(including providing at least 90 days advance written notification) and advise that you
are seeking to be treated as an individual eligible for Full Career Eligibility, and

except in the case of a job elimination, it is your responsibility to take the
appropriate steps to certify to the Firm prior to each vesting date on the authorized
form of the Firm that you have complied with the employment restrictions applicable to
you (as described above) throughout the vesting period and otherwise complied with all
other terms of the Award Agreement. (See  Your Obligations. )

Death 

If you die while you are eligible to vest in your outstanding units under this award,
the units will immediately vest and will be distributed in shares of Common Stock
(after applicable tax withholding) to your designated beneficiary on file with the
Firm s Stock Administration Department, or if no beneficiary has been designated or
survives you, then to your estate. Any shares will be distributed by the later of the
end of the calendar year in which you die or the 15 th  day of the third month
following your date of death.

2 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit (continued) 

Termination for Cause 

In the event that your employment is terminated for Cause (as defined below), or in the
event that JPMC determines after the termination of your employment that your
employment could have been terminated for Cause, your outstanding restricted stock
units shall be forfeited. In addition, you may be required to return to the Firm the
value of certain shares delivered to you prior to or after your termination. See
 Remedies  for additional information.

Your Obligations 

As consideration for the grant of this award, you agree to comply with and be bound by the following:

Non-Solicitation
of Employees and
Customers: 

During your employment by the Firm and for one year following the termination of your
employment, or if longer, during all remaining vesting periods if you continue to vest
after your employment with the Firm terminates, you will not directly or indirectly,
whether on your own behalf or on behalf of any other party, without the prior written
consent of the Director Human Resources of JPMorgan Chase: (i) solicit, induce or
encourage any of the Firm s then current employees to leave the Firm or to apply for
employment elsewhere; (ii) hire any employee or former employee who was employed by the
Firm at the date your employment terminated, unless the individual s employment
terminated more than six months before the date of hire or because his or her job was
eliminated; or (iii) solicit or induce or attempt to induce to leave the Firm, or
divert or attempt to divert from doing business with the Firm, any then current
customers, suppliers or other persons or entities that were serviced by you or whose
names became known to you by virtue of your employment with the Firm, or otherwise
interfere with the relationship between the Firm and such customers, suppliers or other
persons or entities. This does not apply to publicly known institutional customers
that you service after your employment with the Firm without the use of the Firm s
confidential or proprietary information.

These restrictions do not apply to authorized actions you take in the normal course of
your employment with the Firm, such as employment decisions with respect to employees
you supervise or business referrals in accordance with the Firm s policies.

Confidential 
Information: 

You may not, either during your employment with the Firm or thereafter, directly or
indirectly use or disclose to anyone any confidential information related to the Firm s
business, except as explicitly permitted by the JPMorgan Chase Code of Conduct and
applicable policies or law or legal process.  Confidential information  shall have the
same meaning for the Award Agreement as it has in the JPMorgan Chase Code of Conduct.

Non-Disparagement: 

You may not, either during your employment with the Firm or thereafter, make or
encourage others to make any public statement or release any information that is
intended to, or reasonably could be foreseen to, embarrass or criticize the Firm or its
employees, officers, directors or shareholders as a group. This shall not preclude you
from reporting to the Firm s management or directors or to the government or a
regulator conduct you believe to be in violation of the law or the Firm s Code of
Conduct or responding truthfully to questions or requests for information to the
government, a regulator or in a court of law in connection with a legal or regulatory
investigation or proceeding.

Cooperation: 

You agree to cooperate fully with and provide full and accurate information to the Firm
and its counsel with respect to any matter (including any audit, tax proceeding,
litigation, investigation or governmental proceeding) with respect to which you may
have knowledge or information, subject to reimbursement for actual, appropriate and
reasonable expenses incurred by you.

Compliance with 
Award Agreement: 

You agree that you will provide the Firm with any information reasonably requested to
determine compliance with the Award Agreement, and you authorize the Firm to disclose
the terms of the Award Agreement to any third party who might be affected thereby,
including your prospective employer.

Special Notice Period: 

If you are a managing director, executive director or vice president (or comparable
title) of a business unit or equivalent organizational unit or department ( business
unit ) that requires as a

3 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit (continued) 

condition of your continued employment that you provide
advance written notice ( Special Notice Period ) of your intention to terminate your
employment for any reason, then as consideration for this Award, you shall provide the
Firm advance written notice of your election to terminate your employment as specified
by such business unit. In business units that require this Special Notice Period, the
current notice period is 90 days for managing directors (or comparable title), 60 days
for executive directors (or comparable title) and 30 days for vice presidents (or
comparable title). Please note that in some cases, individuals may have specific
agreements providing for longer notice periods than those stated above. In those cases,
the longer notice period shall apply.

After receipt of such notice, the Firm may choose to have you continue to provide
services during the applicable Special Notice Period or may place you on a paid leave
for all or part of the applicable Special Notice Period. During the Special Notice
Period, you shall continue to devote your full time and loyalty to the Firm by
providing services in a cooperative and professional manner and not perform any
services for any other employer and shall receive your base salary and certain benefits
until your employment terminates. You and the Firm may mutually agree to waive or
modify the length of the Special Notice Period.

Regardless of whether the Special Notice Period applies to you, you must comply with
the 90-day advance notice period described under  Full Career Eligibility  in the event
you wish to terminate employment under the Full Career Eligibility provision.

Remedies          Cancellation 

In addition to the provisions described under  Termination of Employment  and
 Termination for Cause , your outstanding restricted stock units will be cancelled if:

the Firm in its sole discretion determines that you are not in compliance with
any of the advance notice/cooperation requirements or employment restrictions
applicable to your termination of employment, or

you fail to return the required forms specified under  Release/Certification 
within the specified deadline, including the certification required immediately prior
to a vesting date under Full Career Eligibility and Total Disability, or

you violate any of
the provisions as set forth above in  Your Obligations. 

Damages 

In addition, you will be required to pay the Firm as liquidated damages an amount equal
to the Fair Market Value (determined as of the vesting date) of the net number of
shares of Common Stock distributed to you under this award as follows:

shares distributed within the one year period prior to your violation of any of
the provisions as set forth above in  Your Obligations; 

shares distributed at any time following termination of employment when you
were not in compliance with the employment restrictions then applicable to you during
the vesting period, and

shares distributed within the one year period immediately preceding and any
time after your termination of employment if your employment was terminated or the Firm
determines that your employment could have been terminated for Cause (as described
under  Termination for Cause ).

Payment may be made in shares of Common Stock or in cash. You agree that this payment
will be liquidated damages and is not to be construed in any manner as a penalty. You
acknowledge that a violation or attempted violation of the obligations set forth herein
will cause immediate and irreparable damage to the Firm, and therefore agree that the
Firm shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction, from any court of
competent jurisdiction, restraining any violation or further violation of such
obligations; such right to an injunction, however, shall be cumulative and in addition
to whatever other remedies the Firm may have under law or equity. In any action or
proceeding by the Firm to enforce the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
where the Firm is the prevailing party, the Firm shall be entitled to recover from you
its reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses incurred in such action or proceeding.

4 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit (continued) 

Additional Conditions 

Notwithstanding any terms of this Award Agreement to the contrary:

JPMorgan Chase reserves the right to cancel, or require repayment of the value
of any distributions you received under, this award to the extent provided under the
JPMorgan Chase Bonus Recoupment Policy as in effect from time to time.

JPMorgan Chase reserves the right to cancel, or require repayment of the value
of any distribution you received under, all or any portion of this award if JPMorgan
Chase determines that this award was based on materially inaccurate performance metrics
or on any misrepresentation by you.

If you are subject to Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
of 2008 and any regulations or interpretations promulgated thereunder, or any successor
or other applicable statute or regulation affecting your compensation ( EESA or Other
Applicable Law ), then any payment of any kind provided for by this Award Agreement
must comply with EESA or Other Applicable Law, and this Award Agreement shall be
interpreted or reformed to the extent required to so comply.

Administrative Provisions 

Withholding Taxes:  The Firm will retain from each distribution the number of shares of
Common Stock required to satisfy applicable tax obligations (including, to the extent
legally permissible, recovery by the Firm of fringe benefit taxes). For U.S. tax
purposes, dividend equivalents are treated as wages and subject to tax withholding when
paid. If, according to local country tax regulations, a withholding tax liability
arises at a time after the date of distribution, JPMorgan Chase may implement any
procedures necessary to ensure that the withholding obligation is fully satisfied,
including but not limited to, restricting transferability of the shares.

Right to Set Off:  The Firm may, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law,
retain for itself funds or securities otherwise payable to you pursuant to this award
to satisfy any obligation or debt that you owe to the Firm. The Firm may not retain
such funds or securities until such time as they would otherwise be distributable to
you in accordance with the Award Agreement.

No Ownership Rights : Restricted stock units do not convey the rights of ownership of
Common Stock and do not carry voting rights. No shares of Common Stock will be issued
to you until after the restricted stock units have vested and all applicable
restrictions have lapsed. Shares will be issued in accordance with JPMorgan Chase s
procedures for issuing stock. JPMorgan Chase s obligation hereunder is unfunded.

Binding Agreement : The Award Agreement will be binding upon any successor in interest
to JPMorgan Chase, by merger or otherwise.

Not a Contract of Employment : Nothing contained in the Award Agreement constitutes a
contract of employment or continued employment. Employment is at-will and may be
terminated by either you or JPMorgan Chase for any reason at any time. This award
does not confer any right or entitlement to, nor does the award impose any obligation
on the Firm to provide, the same or any similar award in the future.

Section 409A Compliance : Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if you (i)
are subject to taxation under the United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code ), (ii)
are a specified employee as defined in the JPMorgan Chase 2005 Deferred Compensation
Plan and (iii) have incurred a separation from service and if any shares under this
award represent deferred compensation as defined in Section 409A and are distributable
to you as a result your separation from service, then those shares will be delivered to
you on first business day of the first calendar month after the expiration of six
full months from date of your separation from service. Further, if prior to any
vesting date, your award is not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture as defined
by Section 409A of the Code, then the remainder of each calendar year immediately
following (i) each vesting date shall be a payment date for purposes of
distributing the vested portion of the award and (ii) each date that JPMorgan Chase
specifies for payment of dividends declared on its common stock shall be the payment
date(s) for purposes of dividend equivalent payments.

5 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit (continued) 

Change in Outstanding Shares : In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of
Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, issuance of a
new class of common stock, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of
shares or other similar corporate change, or any distributions to stockholders of
Common Stock other than regular cash dividends, the Compensation   Management
Development Committee of the Board will make an equitable substitution or proportionate
adjustment, in the number or kind of shares of Common Stock or other securities issued
or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan and to any Restricted Stock Units
outstanding under this award for such corporate events.

Interpretation/Administration : The Director Human Resources has sole and complete
authority to interpret and administer this Award Agreement, including, without
limitation, the power to (i) interpret the Plan and the terms of this Award Agreement;
(ii) determine the reason for termination of employment and application of the
post-employment obligations; (iii) decide all claims arising with respect to this
Award; and (iv) delegate such authority as he deems appropriate. Any determination by
the Director Human Resources shall be binding on all parties.

Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Firm s determinations under the
Plan and the Award Agreements are not required to be uniform. By way of clarification,
the Firm shall be entitled to make non-uniform and selective determinations and
modifications under Award Agreements and the Plan.

Amendment : The Firm by action of its Director Human Resources reserves the right to
amend the Award Agreement in any manner, at any time and for any reason so long as
there has not been a change in control of JPMorgan Chase, as such term is defined by
the JPMorgan Chase Board of Directors from time to time. After a change in control of
JPMorgan Chase, this Award Agreement may not be amended in any way that is adverse to
your interests without your prior written consent. This Award Agreement may not be
amended except in writing signed by the Director Human Resources of JPMorgan Chase.

Severability : If any portion of the Award Agreement is determined by the Firm to be
unenforceable in any jurisdiction, any court of competent jurisdiction or the Director
Human Resources may reform the relevant provisions (e.g., as to length of service,
time, geographical area or scope) to the extent the Firm considers necessary to make
the provision enforceable under applicable law.

Governing Law : By accepting this award, you are agreeing (i) to the extent not
preempted by federal law, the laws of the state of New York (without reference to
conflict of law principles) will apply to this award and the Plan; (ii) to waive the
right to a jury trial with respect to any judicial proceeding brought in connection
with this award; and (iii) that any dispute related to this award shall be submitted to
arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association, if so
elected by the Firm in its sole discretion.

Definitions  
       
       Cause  means a determination by the Firm that your employment terminated as a result
of your (i) violation of any law, rule or regulation (including rules of
self-regulatory bodies) related to the Firm s business; (ii) indictment or conviction
of a felony; (iii) commission of a fraudulent act; (iv) violation of the JPMorgan Code
of Conduct or other Firm policies or misconduct related to your duties to the Firm
(other than immaterial and inadvertent violations or misconduct); (v) inadequate
performance of the duties associated with your position or job function or failure to
follow reasonable directives of your manager; or (vi) any act or failure to act that is
or might reasonably be expected to be injurious to the interests of the Firm or its
relationship with a customer, client or employee.

Financial Services Company  means a business enterprise that employs you in any
capacity (as an employee, contractor, consultant, advisor, self-employed individual,
etc. whether paid or unpaid) and engages in:

6 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit (continued) 

commercial or retail banking, including, but not limited to, commercial,
institutional and personal trust, custody and/or lending and processing services,
originating and servicing mortgages, issuing and servicing credit cards;

insurance, including but not limited to, guaranteeing against loss, harm
damage, illness, disability or death, providing and issuing annuities, acting as
principal, agent or broker for purpose of the forgoing;

financial, investment or economic advisory services, including but not limited
to, investment banking services (such as advising on mergers or dispositions,
underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities or other similar
activities), brokerage services, investment management services, asset management
services, and hedge funds;

issuing, trading or selling instruments representing interests in pools of
assets or in derivatives instruments;

advising on, or investing in, private equity or real estate, or

any similar activities that JPMorgan Chase determines in its sole discretion
constitute financial services.

Not-for-Profit Organization  means an entity exempt from tax under state law and under
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 501(c)(3) includes entities
organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, testing for
public safety, literary or educational purposes, or to foster national or international
amateur sports competition or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals.

Recognized Service  means the period of service as an employee set forth in the Firm s
applicable service-related policies.

7 

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.23>
 18
 y74757exv10w23.htm
 EX-10.23: FORM OF LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR OPERATING COMMITTEE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS

EX-10.23 

Exhibit
10.23

JPMORGAN CHASE   CO. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF JANUARY 20, 2009 
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD 
OPERATING COMMITTEE 

Award Agreement 

These terms and conditions are made part of the Award Agreement dated as of January 20,
2009 ( Grant Date ) awarding restricted stock units pursuant to the terms of the
JPMorgan Chase   Co. Long-Term Incentive Plan ( Plan ). To the extent the terms of the
Award Agreement (all references to which will include these terms and conditions)
conflict with the Plan, the Plan will govern. The Award Agreement, the Plan and
Prospectus supersede any other agreement, whether written or oral, that may have been
entered into by the Firm and you relating to this award.

This award was granted on the Grant Date subject to the Award Agreement.  Unless you
decline by the deadline and in the manner specified in the Award Agreement, you will
have agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, effective as of the Grant Date. 
If you decline the award, it will be cancelled as of the Grant Date.

Capitalized terms that are not defined in the Award Agreement will have the same
meaning as set forth in the Plan.

JPMorgan Chase   Co. will be referred to throughout the Award Agreement as  JPMorgan
Chase,  and together with its subsidiaries as the  Firm. 

Form and Purpose of
Award 

Each restricted stock unit represents a non-transferable right to receive one share of
Common Stock following the applicable vesting date.

The purpose of this award is, in part, to motivate your future performance and to align
your interests with those of the Firm and its shareholders.

Dividend Equivalents 

If dividends are paid on Common Stock while restricted stock units under this award are
outstanding, you will be paid an amount equal to the dividend paid on one share of
Common Stock, multiplied by the number of restricted stock units outstanding to you
under this award.

Vesting Dates 

This award will vest according to the schedule on your Award Agreement, provided that
you are continuously employed by the Firm, or you meet the requirements for continued
vesting described below, through the relevant vesting date, and subject to the
following:

Although it is intended and expected that this award will vest as scheduled,
the award may be reduced or cancelled or vesting dates may be deferred in the event
that the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) of JPMorgan Chase determines, as part of
JPMorgan Chase s annual performance assessment process, based on the CEO s assessment
of your performance and the performance of the Firm (which may include more than one
performance year), that you have not achieved satisfactory progress toward your
priorities or that the Firm has not achieved satisfactory progress toward the Firm s
priorities for which you share responsibility as a member of the Operating Committee.
Such a determination is subject to ratification by the Compensation and Management
Development Committee of the Board of Directors of JPMorgan Chase.

JPMorgan Chase reserves the right to cancel, or require repayment of the value
of any distributions you received under, all or any portion of this award to the extent
provided under the JPMorgan Chase Bonus Recoupment Policy as in effect from time to
time.

JPMorgan Chase reserves the right to cancel, or require repayment of the value
of any distributions you received under, all or any portion of this award if JPMorgan
Chase determines that this award was based on materially inaccurate performance metrics
or on any misrepresentation by you.

If you are subject to Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
of 2008 and any regulations or interpretations promulgated thereunder, or any successor
or

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit Award   Operating Committee (continued) 

other applicable statute affecting your compensation ( EESA or Other Applicable
Law ), then any payment of any kind provided for by this Award Agreement must comply
with EESA or Other Applicable Law, and this Award Agreement shall be interpreted or
reformed to so comply.

Vesting Periods 

The period from the Grant Date to each vesting date will be a separate  vesting period. 

Termination of Employment 

Except as explicitly set forth below under  Job Elimination,   Full Career
Eligibility,   Total Disability,  and  Death,  any restricted stock units outstanding
under this award will be cancelled effective on the date your employment with the Firm
terminates for any reason.

Job Elimination, Full Career
Eligibility, Total Disability 

Subject to  Vesting Dates  and the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
(including without limitation  Your Obligations  ), you will be eligible to continue to
vest in your outstanding restricted stock units under this award following the
termination of your employment if one of the following circumstances applies to you.

Job Elimination :

This award will continue to vest on the original schedule following termination of
employment in the event that:

the Director Human Resources of the Firm or nominee in their sole discretion
determine that the Firm terminated your employment because your job was eliminated, and

after you are notified that your job will be eliminated, you provide such
services as requested by the Firm in a cooperative and professional manner.

Full Career Eligibility :

This award will continue to vest on the original schedule following termination of
employment in the event that:

you leave the Firm voluntarily, have completed at least five years of
continuous service with the Firm immediately preceding your termination date, and the
sum of your age and Recognized Service (as defined below) on your date of termination
equals or exceeds 60,  and 

you provide at least 90 days advance written notice to the Firm of your
intention to voluntarily terminate your employment under this provision, during which
notice period you provide such services as requested by the Firm in a cooperative and
professional manner and you do not perform any services for any other
employer,  and 

for the remainder of the relevant vesting period, you do not (i) perform
services in any capacity (including self-employment) for a Financial Services Company
(as defined below) or (ii) work in your profession (whether or not for a Financial
Services Company); provided that you may work for a government, education or
Not-for-Profit Organization (as defined below).

After receipt of such advance written notice, the Firm may choose to have you continue
to provide services during such 90-day period or shorten the length of the 90-day
period at the Firm s discretion, but to a date no earlier than the date you would
otherwise meet the age and service requirements.

Additional advance notice requirements may apply in certain business units (or
equivalent organizational unit or department).  (See  Special Notice Period  below.) 

Total Disability :

In the event your employment terminates as a result of your permanent and total
disability as defined in the JPMorgan Chase   Co. Long Term Disability Plan (or for
non-U.S. employees the equivalent local country plan), your outstanding units will
continue to vest on the original schedule during such period of disability provided
that you remain unemployed for such period.

For both Full Career Eligibility and Total Disability, you must notify JPMorgan Chase
in writing in

2 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit Award   Operating Committee (continued) 

advance if you plan to perform services for any party or if you will be
self-employed during the vesting periods. Failure to provide such notification could
impact award vesting.

Release/Certification 

In order to qualify for continued vesting after termination of your employment under
any of the foregoing circumstances:

you must timely execute and deliver a release of claims in favor of the Firm,
having such form and terms as the Firm shall specify,

with respect to Full Career Eligibility, prior to the termination of your
employment, you must confirm with management that you meet the eligibility criteria
(including providing at least 90 days advance written notification) and advise that you
are seeking to be treated as an individual eligible for Full Career Eligibility, and

except in the case of a job elimination, it is your responsibility to take the
appropriate steps to certify to the Firm prior to each vesting date on the authorized
form of the Firm that you have complied with the employment restrictions applicable to
you (as described above) throughout the vesting period and otherwise complied with all
other terms of the Award Agreement. (See  Your Obligations. )

Death 

If you die while you are eligible to vest in your outstanding units under this award,
the units will immediately vest and will be distributed in shares of Common Stock
(after applicable tax withholding) to your designated beneficiary on file with the
Firm s Stock Administration Department, or if no beneficiary has been designated or
survives you, then to your estate. Any shares will be distributed by the later of the
end of the calendar year in which you die or the 15 th  day of the third month
following your date of death.

Termination for Cause 

In the event that your employment is terminated for Cause (as defined below), or in the
event that JPMC determines after the termination of your employment that your
employment could have been terminated for Cause, your outstanding restricted stock
units shall be forfeited. In addition, you may be required to return to the Firm the
value of certain shares delivered to you prior to or after your termination. See
 Remedies  for additional information.

Your Obligations 

As consideration for the grant of this award, you agree to comply with and be bound by
the following:

Non-Solicitation
of Employees and
Customers: 

During your employment by the Firm and for one year following the termination of your
employment, or if longer, during all remaining vesting periods if you continue to vest
after your employment with the Firm terminates, you will not directly or indirectly,
whether on your own behalf or on behalf of any other party, without the prior written
consent of the Director Human Resources of JPMorgan Chase: (i) solicit, induce or
encourage any of the Firm s then current employees to leave the Firm or to apply for
employment elsewhere; (ii) hire any employee or former employee who was employed by the
Firm at the date your employment terminated, unless the individual s employment
terminated more than six months before the date of hire or because his or her job was
eliminated; or (iii) solicit or induce or attempt to induce to leave the Firm, or
divert or attempt to divert from doing business with the Firm, any then current
customers, suppliers or other persons or entities that were serviced by you or whose
names became known to you by virtue of your employment with the Firm, or otherwise
interfere with the relationship between the Firm and such customers, suppliers or other
persons or entities. This does not apply to publicly known institutional customers
that you service after your employment with the Firm without the use of the Firm s
confidential or proprietary information.

These restrictions do not apply to authorized actions you take in the normal course of
your employment with the Firm, such as employment decisions with respect to employees
you supervise or business referrals in accordance with the Firm s policies.

Confidential 
Information: 

You may not, either during your employment with the Firm or thereafter, directly or
indirectly use or disclose to anyone any confidential information related to the Firm s
business, except as explicitly permitted by the JPMorgan Chase Code of Conduct and
applicable policies or law or

3 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit Award   Operating Committee (continued) 

legal process.  Confidential information  shall have the
same meaning for the Award Agreement as it has in the JPMorgan Chase Code of Conduct.

Non-Disparagement: 

You may not, either during your employment with the Firm or thereafter, make or
encourage others to make any public statement or release any information that is
intended to, or reasonably could be foreseen to, embarrass or criticize the Firm or its
employees, officers, directors or shareholders as a group. This shall not preclude you
from reporting to the Firm s management or directors or to the government or a
regulator conduct you believe to be in violation of the law or the Firm s Code of
Conduct or responding truthfully to questions or requests for information to the
government, a regulator or in a court of law in connection with a legal or regulatory
investigation or proceeding.

Cooperation: 

You agree to cooperate fully with and provide full and accurate information to the Firm
and its counsel with respect to any matter (including any audit, tax proceeding,
litigation, investigation or governmental proceeding) with respect to which you may
have knowledge or information, subject to reimbursement for actual, appropriate and
reasonable expenses incurred by you.

Compliance with
Award Agreement: 

You agree that you will provide the Firm with any information reasonably requested to
determine compliance with the Award Agreement, and you authorize the Firm to disclose
the terms of the Award Agreement to any third party who might be affected thereby,
including your prospective employer.

Special Notice 
Period: 

If you are at or above the level of managing director, executive director or vice
president (or comparable title) of a business unit or equivalent organizational unit or
department ( business unit ) that requires as a condition of your continued employment
that you provide advance written notice ( Special Notice Period ) of your intention to
terminate your employment for any reason, then as consideration for this Award, you
shall provide the Firm advance written notice of your election to terminate your
employment as specified by such business unit. In business units that require this
Special Notice Period, the current notice period is 90 days for managing directors (or
comparable title), 60 days for executive directors (or comparable title) and 30 days
for vice presidents (or comparable title). Please note that in some cases, individuals
may have specific agreements providing for longer notice periods than those stated
above. In those cases, the longer notice period shall apply.

After receipt of such notice, the Firm may choose to have you continue to provide
services during the applicable Special Notice Period or may place you on a paid leave
for all or part of the applicable Special Notice Period. During the Special Notice
Period, you shall continue to devote your full time and loyalty to the Firm by
providing services in a cooperative and professional manner and not perform any
services for any other employer and shall receive your base salary and certain benefits
until your employment terminates. You and the Firm may mutually agree to waive or
modify the length of the Special Notice Period.

Regardless of whether the Special Notice Period applies to you, you must comply with
the 90-day advance notice period described under  Full Career Eligibility  in the event
you wish to terminate employment under the Full Career Eligibility provision.

Remedies  
        Cancellation 

In addition to the provisions described under  Termination of Employment  and
 Termination for Cause , your outstanding restricted stock units will be cancelled if:

the Firm in its sole discretion determines that you are not in compliance with
any of the advance notice/cooperation requirements or employment restrictions
applicable to your termination of employment, or

you fail to return the required forms specified under  Release/Certification 
within the specified deadline, including the certification required immediately prior
to a vesting date under Full Career Eligibility and Total Disability, or

you violate any of the provisions as set forth above in  Your Obligations. 

4 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit Award   Operating Committee (continued) 

Damages 

In addition, you will be required to pay the Firm as liquidated damages an amount equal
to the Fair Market Value (determined as of the vesting date) of the net number of
shares of Common Stock distributed to you under this award as follows:

shares distributed within the one year period prior to your violation of any of
the provisions as set forth above in  Your Obligations; 

shares distributed at any time following termination of employment when you
were not in compliance with the employment restrictions then applicable to you during
the vesting period, and

shares distributed within the one year period immediately preceding and any
time after your termination of employment if your employment was terminated or the Firm
determines that your employment could have been terminated for Cause (as described
under  Termination for Cause ).

Payment may be made in shares of Common Stock or in cash. You agree that this payment
will be liquidated damages and is not to be construed in any manner as a penalty. You
acknowledge that a violation or attempted violation of the obligations set forth herein
will cause immediate and irreparable damage to the Firm, and therefore agree that the
Firm shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction, from any court of
competent jurisdiction, restraining any violation or further violation of such
obligations; such right to an injunction, however, shall be cumulative and in addition
to whatever other remedies the Firm may have under law or equity. In any action or
proceeding by the Firm to enforce the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
where the Firm is the prevailing party, the Firm shall be entitled to recover from you
its reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses incurred in such action or proceeding.
Notwithstanding any terms of this Award Agreement to the contrary:

Administrative Provisions 

Withholding Taxes:  The Firm will retain from each distribution the number of shares of
Common Stock required to satisfy applicable tax obligations (including, to the extent
legally permissible, recovery by the Firm of fringe benefit taxes). For U.S. tax
purposes, dividend equivalents are treated as wages and subject to tax withholding when
paid. If, according to local country tax regulations, a withholding tax liability
arises at a time after the date of distribution, JPMorgan Chase may implement any
procedures necessary to ensure that the withholding obligation is fully satisfied,
including but not limited to, restricting transferability of the shares.

Right to Set Off:  The Firm may, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law,
retain for itself funds or securities otherwise payable to you pursuant to this award
to satisfy any obligation or debt that you owe to the Firm. The Firm may not retain
such funds or securities until such time as they would otherwise be distributable to
you in accordance with the Award Agreement.

No Ownership Rights : Restricted stock units do not convey the rights of ownership of
Common Stock and do not carry voting rights. No shares of Common Stock will be issued
to you until after the restricted stock units have vested and all applicable
restrictions have lapsed. Shares will be issued in accordance with JPMorgan Chase s
procedures for issuing stock. JPMorgan Chase s obligation hereunder is unfunded.

Binding Agreement : The Award Agreement will be binding upon any successor in interest
to JPMorgan Chase, by merger or otherwise.

Not a Contract of Employment : Nothing contained in the Award Agreement constitutes a
contract of employment or continued employment. Employment is at-will and may be
terminated by either you or JPMorgan Chase for any reason at any time. This award
does not confer any right or entitlement to, nor does the award impose any obligation
on the Firm to provide, the same or any similar award in the future.

Section 409A Compliance : Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if you (i)
are subject to taxation under the United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code ), (ii)
are a specified employee as defined in the JPMorgan Chase 2005 Deferred Compensation
Plan and (iii) have

5 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit Award   Operating Committee (continued) 

incurred a separation from service and if any shares under this
award represent deferred compensation as defined in Section 409A and are distributable
to you as a result your separation from service, then those shares will be delivered to
you on first business day of the first calendar month after the expiration of six
full months from date of your separation from service. Further, if prior to any
vesting date, your award is not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture as defined
by Section 409A of the Code, then the remainder of each calendar year immediately
following (i) each vesting date shall be a payment date for purposes of
distributing the vested portion of the award and (ii) each date that JPMorgan Chase
specifies for payment of dividends declared on its common stock shall be the payment
date(s) for purposes of dividend equivalent payments.

Change in Outstanding Shares : In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of
Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, issuance of a
new class of common stock, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of
shares or other similar corporate change, or any distributions to stockholders of
Common Stock other than regular cash dividends, the Compensation   Management
Development Committee of the Board will make an equitable substitution or proportionate
adjustment, in the number or kind of shares of Common Stock or other securities issued
or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan and to any Restricted Stock Units
outstanding under this award for such corporate events.

Interpretation/Administration : The Director Human Resources has sole and complete
authority to interpret and administer this Award Agreement, including, without
limitation, the power to (i) interpret the Plan and the terms of this Award Agreement;
(ii) determine the reason for termination of employment and application of the
post-employment obligations; (iii) decide all claims arising with respect to this
Award; and (iv) delegate such authority as he deems appropriate. Any determination by
the Director Human Resources shall be binding on all parties.

Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Firm s determinations under the
Plan and the Award Agreements are not required to be uniform. By way of clarification,
the Firm shall be entitled to make non-uniform and selective determinations and
modifications under Award Agreements and the Plan.

Amendment : The Firm by action of its Director Human Resources reserves the right to
amend the Award Agreement in any manner, at any time and for any reason so long as
there has not been a change in control of JPMorgan Chase, as such term is defined by
the JPMorgan Chase Board of Directors from time to time. After a change in control of
JPMorgan Chase, this Award Agreement may not be amended in any way that is adverse to
your interests without your prior written consent. This Award Agreement may not be
amended except in writing signed by the Director Human Resources of JPMorgan Chase.

Severability : If any portion of the Award Agreement is determined by the Firm to be
unenforceable in any jurisdiction, any court of competent jurisdiction or the Director
Human Resources may reform the relevant provisions (e.g., as to length of service,
time, geographical area or scope) to the extent the Firm considers necessary to make
the provision enforceable under applicable law.

Governing Law : By accepting this award, you are agreeing (i) to the extent not
preempted by federal law, the laws of the state of New York (without reference to
conflict of law principles) will apply to this award and the Plan; (ii) to waive the
right to a jury trial with respect to any judicial proceeding brought in connection
with this award; and (iii) that any dispute related to this award shall be submitted to
arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association, if so
elected by the Firm in its sole discretion.

Definitions 

Cause  means a determination by the Firm that your employment terminated as a result
of your (i) violation of any law, rule or regulation (including rules of
self-regulatory bodies) related to the Firm s business; (ii) indictment or conviction
of a felony; (iii) commission of a fraudulent act; (iv)

6 

January 20, 2009 Restricted Stock Unit Award   Operating Committee (continued) 

violation of the JPMorgan Code
of Conduct or other Firm policies or misconduct related to your duties to the Firm
(other than immaterial and inadvertent violations or misconduct); (v) inadequate
performance of the duties associated with your position or job function or failure to
follow reasonable directives of your manager; or (vi) any act or failure to act that is
or might reasonably be expected to be injurious to the interests of the Firm or its
relationship with a customer, client or employee.

Financial Services Company  means a business enterprise that employs you in any
capacity (as an employee, contractor, consultant, advisor, self-employed individual,
etc. whether paid or unpaid) and engages in:

commercial or retail banking, including, but not limited to, commercial,
institutional and personal trust, custody and/or lending and processing services,
originating and servicing mortgages, issuing and servicing credit cards;

insurance, including but not limited to, guaranteeing against loss, harm
damage, illness, disability or death, providing and issuing annuities, acting as
principal, agent or broker for purpose of the forgoing;

financial, investment or economic advisory services, including but not limited
to, investment banking services (such as advising on mergers or dispositions,
underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities or other similar
activities), brokerage services, investment management services, asset management
services, and hedge funds;

issuing, trading or selling instruments representing interests in pools of
assets or in derivatives instruments;

advising on, or investing in, private equity or real estate, or

any similar activities that JPMorgan Chase determines in its sole discretion
constitute financial services.

Not-for-Profit Organization  means an entity exempt from tax under state law and under
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 501(c)(3) includes entities
organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, testing for
public safety, literary or educational purposes, or to foster national or international
amateur sports competition or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals.

Recognized Service  means the period of service as an employee set forth in the Firm s
applicable service-related policies.

7 

</EX-10.23>

<EX-12.1>
 19
 y74757exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EX-12.1 

Exhibit 12.1 
JPMorgan Chase   Co. 

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

(a) 
       
     The proportion deemed representative of the interest factor. 

(b) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. 

(c) 
       
     On July 1, 2004, Bank One Corporation merged with
and into JPMorgan Chase. Accordingly, 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm s results and six months of
heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 

238 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-12.2>
 20
 y74757exv12w2.htm
 EX-12.2: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDEND REQUIREMENTS

EX-12.2 

Exhibit 12.2 
JPMorgan Chase   Co. 

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements 

(a) 
       
     The proportion deemed representative of the interest factor. 

(b) 
       
     On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking
operations of Washington Mutual Bank. On May 30, 2008, the Bear
Stearns merger was consummated. Each of these transactions was
accounted for as a purchase and their respective results of
operations are included in the Firm s results from each
respective transaction date. 

(c) 
       
     On July 1, 2004, Bank One Corporation merged with
and into JPMorgan Chase. Accordingly, 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm s results and six months of
heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 

239 

</EX-12.2>

<EX-21.1>
 21
 y74757exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1: LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.

EX-21.1 

Exhibit 21.1 

JPMorgan Chase   Co. 
List of subsidiaries

JPMorgan Chase had the following subsidiaries at December 31, 2008:

Percentage of voting 

Organized under the 

securities owned by 

Name 
       
     the laws of 

immediate parent 

Banc One Building Management Corporation

Wisconsin 

100 

Banc One Capital Holdings LLC

Delaware 

100 

BOCP Holdings Corporation

Ohio 

100 

Banc One Capital Partners IV, Ltd.

Ohio 

100 

Banc One Capital Partners VIII, Ltd.

Ohio 

83 

BOCP Energy Partners, L.P.

Ohio 

95 

Banc One Stonehenge Capital Fund Wisconsin, LLC

Delaware 

100 

BOCF, LLC

Delaware 

100 

BOCNY, LLC

Delaware 

100 

JPM Mezzanine Capital, LLC

Delaware 

100 

Chase Investment Services Corp.

Delaware 

100 

Banc One Deferred Benefits Corporation

Ohio 

98 

Banc One Financial LLC

Delaware 

100 

JPMorgan Capital Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Bank One Investment Corporation

Delaware 

100 

OEP Holding Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Banc One Equity Capital Fund II, L.L.C.

Delaware 

99.5 

Banc One Equity Capital II, L.L.C.

Delaware 

100 

One Equity Partners II, L.P.

Cayman Islands 

99.9 
      (1)  

One Equity Partners III, L.P.

Cayman Islands 

99.7 

One Equity Partners LLC

Delaware 

99.9 
       (2)  

First Chicago Capital Corporation

Delaware 

100 

JPMorgan Capital (Canada) Corp.

Canada 

100 

One Mortgage Partners Corp.

Vermont 

100 

First Chicago Leasing Corporation

Delaware 

100 

First Chicago Lease Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Palo Verde
Leasing Corporation

Delaware 

100 

First Chicago Lease Investments, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

FM Holdings I, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

GHML Holdings I, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

GHML Holdings II, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

GTC Fund III Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

GTC Fund IV Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

GTC Fund V Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

JPMorgan Housing Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Cooper Project, L.L.C.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Structured Fund Management SAS

France 

100 

Protech Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

United States 

0.01 
      (3)  

NLTC Fund Holdings I, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

OX FCL Two, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

SAHP 130 Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Banc One Neighborhood Development Corporation

Ohio 

100 

BOI Leasing Corporation

Indiana 

100 

Bridge Acquisition Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

CCC Holding Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Chase Commercial Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Chase Capital Holding Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Chase Capital Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Chase Capital Credit Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Chase Lincoln First Commercial Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Chase Manhattan Realty Leasing Corporation

New York 

100 

240 

Percentage of voting 

Organized under 

securities owned by 

Name 
       
     the laws of 

immediate parent 

Palo Verde 1-PNM August 50 Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Palo Verde 1-PNM December 75 Corporation

Delaware 

100 

PV2-APS 150 Corporation

Delaware 

100 

PV2-PNM December 35 Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Chatham
Ventures, Inc.

New York 

100 

J.P. Morgan
Partners (BHCA), L.P.

California 

80 
      (4)  

CVCA, LLC

Delaware 

100 

Chemical Equity Incorporated

New York 

100 

Chemical
Investments, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Clintstone Properties Inc.

New York 

100 

CMRCC, Inc.

New York 

100 

Credit Markets Investment Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Custodial Trust Company

New Jersey 

99 

Hambrecht   Quist California

California 

100 

H Q Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Hatherley Insurance Ltd.

Bermuda 

100 

Homesales, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Capital Financing Limited

England 

100 

Aldermanbury Investments Limited

England 

100 

J.P. Morgan Chase International Financing Limited

England 

100 

Robert Fleming Holdings Limited

England 

100 

Robert Fleming Investment Trust Limited

England 

100 

J.P. Morgan Chase Community Development Corporation

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan
Chase National Corporate Services, Inc.

New York 

100 

J.P. Morgan Corporate Services Limited

England 

100 

Robert Fleming Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan
Equity Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

CMC Holding Delaware Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Chase Bank
USA, National Association

United States 

100 

Chase
BankCard Services, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Investor Services Co.

Delaware 

100 

Ixe
Tarjetas, S.A. de C.V., Sociedad Financiera de Objeto Multiple, Entidad Regulada

Mexico 

50 
      (5)  

J.P. Morgan Trust Company of Delaware

Delaware 

100 

JPMorgan
Bank and Trust Company, National Association

United States 

100 

JPM Capital Corporation

Delaware 

100 

JPMC Wind Assignor Corporation

Delaware 

100 

JPMC Wind Investment LLC

Delaware 

49.995 
      (6)  

J.P. Morgan Finance Holdings (Japan) LLC

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Finance Japan YK

Japan 

100 

J.P. Morgan Funding Corp.

England 

99.99 
      (7)  

J.P. Morgan Futures Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan GT Corporation

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan
Insurance Holdings, L.L.C.

Arizona 

100 

Banc One Insurance Company

Vermont 

100 

Chase
Insurance Agency, Inc.

Wisconsin 

100 

J.P. Morgan International Holdings LLC

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Trust Company (Bahamas) Limited

Bahamas, The 

100 

J.P. Morgan Trust Company (Cayman) Limited

Cayman Islands 

100 

JPMAC Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Invest Holdings LLC

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Retirement Plan Services LLC

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan
Partners (23A Manager), Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Private Investments Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan
Services Asia Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Services Asia Holdings Limited

Mauritius 

100 

J.P. Morgan Services India Private Limited

India 

99.99957515 
      (8)  

J.P. Morgan Services Inc.

Delaware 

100 

JPM International Consumer Holding Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Brysam
Global Partners, L.P.

Cayman Islands 

98.0392 

Brysam BPO Ltd

Mauritius 

100 

Brysam
Mexico II, LLC

Delaware 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Highbridge
Capital Management, LLC

Delaware 

77.5 

241 

Percentage of voting 

Organized under  

securities owned by 

Name 
       
     the laws of 

immediate parent 

Highbridge Capital Management (Hong Kong), Limited

Hong Kong 

100 

Highbridge
Capital Management (UK), Ltd.

England 

100 

Highbridge Principal Strategies, LLC

Delaware 

100 

Highbridge
Principal Strategies (UK) I, Ltd

England 

100 

Highbridge Principal Strategies (UK), LLP

England 

50 
      (9)  

J.P. Morgan Alternative Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc.

Delaware 

100 

JPMorgan Global Absolute Return Strategy Fund, LLC

Delaware 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia) Inc.

Delaware 

100 

JF Asset Management (Singapore) Limited

Singapore 

100 

JF Asset Management Limited

Hong Kong 

99.99998 
      (10)  

JPMorgan Funds (Asia) Limited

Hong Kong 

99.9999998 
      (11)  

JPMorgan Asset Management (Taiwan) Limited

Taiwan 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited

Japan 

100 

JPMorgan Funds (Taiwan) Limited

Taiwan 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management (Canada) Inc.

Canada 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management International Limited

England 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings (UK) Limited

England 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited

England 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings (Luxembourg) S.  r.l.

Luxembourg 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management (Europe) S.  r.l.

Luxembourg 

100 

JPMorgan Asset Management Societa di Gestione del Risparmio SpA

Italy 

99.9 
      (12)  

JPMorgan Asset Management Luxembourg S.A.

Luxembourg 

99.99 
      (13)  

JPMorgan Asset Management Advisory Company S.  r.l.

Luxembourg 

99.97 
      (14)  

JPMorgan Asset Management Marketing Limited

England 

100 

JPMorgan Equity Plan Managers Limited

England 

100 

JPMorgan Funds Limited

Scotland 

100 

Save   Prosper Insurance Limited

England 

100 

Save   Prosper Pensions Limited

England 

100 

JPMorgan Investments Limited

England 

100 

JPMorgan Life Limited

England 

100 

JPMorgan LDHES LLC

Delaware 

100 

Security Capital Research   Management Incorporated

Delaware 

100 

JPMorgan
Chase Bank, Dearborn

Michigan 

100 

JPMorgan
Chase Bank, National Association

United States 

100 

Banc One Acceptance Corporation

Ohio 

100 

Banc One Arizona Leasing Corporation

Arizona 

100 

Banc One Building Corporation

Illinois 

100 

Banc One Community Development Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Protech Tax Credit Fund III, LLC

United States 

0.01 
      (15)  

Banc One Equipment Finance, Inc.

Indiana 

100 

Banc One Kentucky Leasing Corporation

Kentucky 

100 

Banc One Kentucky Vehicle Leasing Company

Kentucky 

100 

Banc One National Processing Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Banc One Real Estate Investment Corp.

Delaware 

100 

Bank One Education Finance Corporation

Ohio 

100 

Bank One
Equity Investors - BIDCO, Inc.

Louisiana 

100 

Bear Stearns Commercial Mortgage, Inc.

New York 

100 

Bear Stearns Credit Products Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Bear Stearns Forex Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Bear Stearns Mortgage Capital Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Bear, Stearns Funding, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Blue Box Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

100 

BOC Southeast Holdings Company

Delaware 

100 

BOILL IHC, Inc.

Nevada 

100 

Chase BankCard LLC

Delaware 

100 

BONA Capital I, LLC

Delaware 

100 

BONA Capital II, LLC

Delaware 

100 

BOTAC, Inc.

Nevada 

100 

California Reconveyance Company

California 

100 

Cedar Hill International Corp.

Delaware 

100 

Chase Auto Finance Corp.

Delaware 

100 

Chase Community Development Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Chase Equipment Leasing Inc.

Ohio 

100 

Chase Funding Corporation

Delaware 

100 

242 

Percentage of voting 

Organized under 

securities owned by 

Name 
       
     the laws of 

immediate parent 

Chase Home Finance Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Chase Home Finance LLC

Delaware 

100 

Chase
Mortgage Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Chase New Markets Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Chase Preferred Capital Corporation

Delaware 

100 

CPCC Delaware Statutory Trust

Delaware 

100 

CPCC Texas Limited Partnership

Texas 

99.5 
      (16)  

CPCC Massachusetts Business Trust

Massachusetts 

100 

Chase Student Loan Services, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

Collegiate
Funding Services, L.L.C.

Virginia 

100 

CFS
Servicing, LLC

Delaware 

100 

Chase
Student Loan Servicing, LLC

United States 

100 

Chase Student Loans, Inc.

United States 

100 

Collegiate
Funding of Delaware, L.L.C.

United States 

100 

Collegiate Funding Services Education Loan Trust 2003A

United States 

100 

Collegiate Funding Services Education Loan Trust 2003B

United States 

100 

Collegiate Funding Services Education Loan Trust 2004A

United States 

100 

Collegiate Funding Services Education Loan Trust 2005A

United States 

100 

Collegiate Funding Services Education Loan Trust 2005B

United States 

100 

Chase Ventures Holdings, Inc.

United States 

100 

Commercial Loan Partners L.P.

United States 

58.6275 
      (17)  

Cross Country Insurance Company

United States 

100 

CSL Leasing, Inc.

United States 

100 

DNT Asset Trust

United States 

100 

Ventures Business Trust

United States 

100 

FA Out-of-State Holdings, Inc.

United States 

100 

Ahmanson Marketing, Inc.

United States 

100 

FA California Aircraft Holding Corp.

United States 

100 

Pacific Centre Associates LLC

United States 

54.86 
      (18)  

WMRP Delaware Holdings LLC

United States 

97.84 
      (19)  

Irvine Corporate Center, Inc.

United States 

100 

Rivergrade Investment Corp.

United States 

32.8 
      (20)  

Savings of America, Inc.

United States 

100 

WaMu Insurance Services, Inc.

United States 

100 

Washington Mutual Community Development, Inc.

United States 

100 

FC Energy Finance I, Inc.

United States 

100 

FC Energy Finance II, Inc.

United States 

100 

FDC Offer Corporation

United States 

100 

Paymentech, Inc.

United States 

100 

FNBC Leasing Corporation

United States 

100 

ICIB Fund I Holdings, Inc.

United States 

100 

Georgetown/Chase Phase I LLC

United States 

99 
      (21)  

Georgetown/Chase Phase II, LLC

United States 

99 
      (22)  

Harvest Opportunity Holdings Corp.

United States 

100 

HCP Properties, Inc.

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Electronic Financial Services, Inc.

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan International Inc.

United States 

100 

Bank One International Holdings Corporation

United States 

100 

Bank One Europe Limited

England 

100 

J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited

United States 

100 

Banco J.P. Morgan S.A.

Brazil 

99.27 
      (23)  

J.P. Morgan Corretora de Cambio e Valores Mobiliarios S.A.

Brazil 

100 

J.P. Morgan
S.A. Distribuidora de Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios

Brazil 

100 

BOL (C) II, Inc.

Delaware 

100 

BOL Canada II Sub, Inc.

United States 

100 

BOL Canada II Trust

United States 

100 

BO Leasing II ULC

Canada 

100 

BOL Canada I, Inc.

United States 

100 

BOL Canada I Sub, Inc.

United States 

100 

BO Leasing I ULC

Canada 

100 

BOL Canada III, Inc.

United States 

100 

BOL Canada III Sub, Inc.

United States 

100 

BO Leasing III ULC

Canada 

100 

Brysam
Global Partners (AV-1), L.P.

Cayman Islands 

98.0392 

AEF, LLC

United States 

100 

243 

Percentage of voting 

Organized under 

securities owned by 

Name 
       
     the laws of 

immediate parent 

Apoyo Economico Familiar, S.de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

100 

CB  J.P. Morgan Bank International  (LLC)

Russia 

99 
      (24)  

Chase Manhattan Holdings Limitada

Brazil 

99.99 

Dearborn Merchant Services, Inc

Canada 

100 

Chase Paymentech Solutions

Canada 

51 
      (25)  

First Data/Paymentech Canada Partner ULC

Canada 

100 

Inversiones J.P. Morgan Limitada

Chile 

99.942 
      (26)  

J.P. Morgan (Suisse) SA

Switzerland 

100 

J.P. Morgan Bank (Ireland) plc

Ireland 

100 

J.P. Morgan Administration Services (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

100 

JPMorgan Hedge Fund Services (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

100 

J.P. Morgan Bank Canada

Canada 

100 

J.P. Morgan Bank Luxembourg S.A.

Luxembourg 

99.99 
      (27)  

J.P. Morgan Beteiligungs- und Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

Germany 

99.8 
      (28)  

J.P. Morgan AG

Germany 

100 

J.P. Morgan Capital Holdings Limited

England 

72.727 
      (29)  

J.P. Morgan Chase (UK) Holdings Limited

England 

100 

J.P. Morgan Chase International Holdings

England 

100 

J.P. Morgan EU Holdings Limited

England 

100 

J.P. Morgan Equities Limited

South Africa 

100 

J.P. Morgan Europe Limited

England 

100 

Crosby Sterling (Holdings) Limited

England 

79 
      (30)  

J.P. Morgan Markets LLP

England 

36.02 
      (31)  

J.P. Morgan Chase Finance Limited

England 

65 
      (32)  

JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings

England 

50.01 

J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd.

England 

98.947 
      (33)  

J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd. - Milan Branch

Italy 

100 

Morgan Property Development Company Limited

England 

100 

Robert Fleming (Overseas) Number 2 Limited

England 

100 

J.P. Morgan plc

England 

100 

J.P. Morgan Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

100 

J.P. Morgan Chase Bank Berhad

Malaysia 

100 

J.P. Morgan Chile Limitada

Chile 

99.8 
      (34)  

J.P. Morgan Funding South East Asia Private Limited

Singapore 

100 

J.P. Morgan (S.E.A.) Limited

Singapore 

100 

J.P. Morgan
Grupo Financiero S.A. De C.V.

Mexico 

99.66 
      (35)  

Banco J.P. Morgan S.A., Institucion de Banca Multiple, J.P. Morgan Grupo Financiero

Mexico 

99.99 
      (36)  

Banco J.P. Morgan Socio Liquidador

Mexico 

100 

J.P. Morgan Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V., J.P. Morgan Grupo Financiero

Mexico 

99.99 
      (37)  

J.P. Morgan Servicios, S.A. de C.V., J.P. Morgan Grupo Financiero

Mexico 

99 
      (38)  

J.P. Morgan Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 

99.8 
      (39)  

Copthall Mauritius Investment Limited

Mauritius 

100 

J.P. Morgan Futures (Korea) Limited

Korea, South 

100 

J.P. Morgan Securities (Far East) Limited

Hong Kong 

99.9999999 
      (40)  

J.P. Morgan Broking (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 

99.99999 
      (41)  

J.P. Morgan Futures Co., Limited

China, Peoples Republic of 

49 

J.P. Morgan International Derivatives Ltd.

Jersey 

100 

J.P. Morgan International Holdings Limited

Cayman Islands 

100 

J.P. Morgan India Securities Holdings Limited

Mauritius 

55.714 
      (42)  

J.P. Morgan India Private Limited

India 

99.9999726 
      (43)  

J.P. Morgan Indonesia Holdings (B.V.I.) Limited

British Virgin Islands 

100 

J.P. Morgan Securities Singapore Private Limited

Singapore 

100 

J.P. Morgan Securities Thailand Holdings Limited

British Virgin Islands 

100 

PGW Limited

Thailand 

99.9997 

JPMorgan Securities (Thailand) Limited

Thailand 

50.100001 
      (44)  

Jadeling Malaysia Holdings Limited

British Virgin Islands 

100 

JPMorgan Securities (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

100 

J.P. Morgan Investimentos e Financas Ltda.

Brazil 

99.79 
      (45)  

J.P. Morgan Luxembourg International S.  r.l.

Luxembourg 

100 

J.P. Morgan Malaysia Ltd.

Malaysia 

100 

J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital Corporation

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Australia Group Pty Limited

Australia 

100 

J.P. Morgan Operations Australia Limited

Australia 

100 

J.P. Morgan Administrative Services Australia Limited

Australia 

100 

J.P. Morgan Australia Limited

Australia 

100 

244 

Percentage of voting 

Organized under 

securities owned by 

Name 
       
     the laws of 

immediate parent 

J.P. Morgan Portfolio Services Limited

Australia 

100 

JFOM Pty Limited

Australia 

100 

OMG Australia Pty Limited

Australia 

100 

J.P. Morgan Securities Australia Limited

Australia 

100 

JPMorgan Investments Australia Limited

Australia 

100 

J.P. Morgan Markets Australia Pty Limited

Australia 

100 

J.P. Morgan Espana S.A.

Spain 

100 

J.P. Morgan International Bank Limited

England 

100 

J.P. Morgan Securities Canada Inc.

Canada 

100 

J.P. Morgan Whitefriars Inc.

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Whitefriars (UK)

England 

99.99 
      (46)  

JPMorgan Corporacion Financiera S.A.

Colombia 

90 
      (47)  

PT J.P. Morgan Securities Indonesia

Indonesia 

42.5 
      (48)  

J.P. Morgan Pakistan Broking (Private) Limited

Pakistan 

99.999 

J.P. Morgan Partners (CMB Reg K GP), Inc.

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Saudi Arabia Limited

Saudi Arabia 

95 
      (49)  

J.P. Morgan Securities (C.I.) Limited

Jersey 

100 

J.P. Morgan (Jersey) Limited

Jersey 

100 

J.P. Morgan Securities (Taiwan) Limited

Taiwan 

72.3 
      (50)  

J.P. Morgan Securities Asia Private Limited

Singapore 

100 

J.P. Morgan Securities Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 

86.38172 
      (51)  

J.P. Morgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Limited

Hong Kong 

99.99999 
      (52)  

J.P. Morgan Securities Holdings (Caymans) Limited

Cayman Islands 

99.9999 
      (53)  

J.P. Morgan Securities India Private Limited

India 

89.99999 
      (54)  

J.P. Morgan Securities Philippines, Inc.

Philippines 

99.9997 

J.P. Morgan Securities South Africa (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

100 

JPMorgan Administration Services (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

100 

J.P. Morgan Structured Products B.V.

Netherlands 

100 

J.P. Morgan Trust Company (Jersey) Limited

Jersey 

100 

JPMorgan Holdings (Japan) LLC

United States 

100 

JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co., Ltd.

Japan 

85.042735 
      (55)  

Bear Stearns (Japan), LLC

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Trust Bank Limited

Japan 

72.1625613 
      (56)  

Norchem Holdings e Negocios S.A.

Brazil 

48.97 
      (57)  

NorChem Participacoes e Consultoria S.A.

Brazil 

50 

Vastera Bermuda LP

Bermuda 

99.99 
      (58)  

Vastera Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands 

100 

J.P. Morgan Mortgage Acquisition Corp.

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Treasury Technologies Corporation

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Chase Bank (China) Company Limited

China, Peoples Republic of 

100 

JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. - Asia Pacific Area Office

Hong Kong 

0 

JPMorgan Chase Vastera Inc.

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Chase Vastera Professional Services Inc.

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Investment Advisors Inc.

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Xign Corporation

United States 

100 

Manufacturers Hanover Leasing International Corp.

United States 

100 

Meliora Holding Corp.

United States 

100 

Pike Street Holdings, Inc.

United States 

100 

Providian Bancorp Services

United States 

100 

Seafair Securities Holding Corp.

United States 

100 

Second and Union, LLC

United States 

100 

South Cutler Corporation

United States 

100 

Stockton
Plaza, Incorporated

United States 

100 

Washington Mutual Brokerage Holdings, Inc.

United States 

100 

WaMu Investments, Inc.

United States 

100 

Washington Mutual Mortgage Securities Corp.

United States 

100 

WM Marion Holdings, LLC

United States 

100 

Cranbrook Real Estate Investment Trust

United States 

100 

Washington Mutual Preferred Funding LLC

United States 

100 

WM Specialty Mortgage LLC

United States 

100 

WM Winslow Funding LLC

United States 

100 

WMB Baker LLC

United States 

100 

WMICC Delaware Holdings LLC

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Chase Funding Inc.

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation

United States 

100 

245 

Percentage of voting 

Organized under 

securities owned by 

Name 
       
     the laws of 

immediate parent 

BE Investment Holding Inc.

United States 

100 

Arroyo Energy Investors LLC

United States 

100 

Argonaut Power LP

United States 

99 
      (59)  

Arroyo DP Holding LP

United States 

100 

Brush Gas Holdings, LLC

United States 

99 
      (60)  

Central Power Holdings LP

United States 

100 

Okwari CB Holdings LP

United States 

100 

Okwari UCF LP

United States 

100 

Thermo Holdings LP

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Ventures Energy (Asia) Pte Ltd

Singapore 

100 

PropPartners Master Fund L.P.

Cayman Islands 

99.9 
      (61)  

JPMorgan Distribution Services, Inc.

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Funds Management, Inc.

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Private Capital Asia Corp.

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Private Capital Asia General Partner, L.P.

Cayman Islands 

100 

JPMorgan Private Capital Asia Fund I, L.P.

Cayman Islands 

100 

JPMorgan PCA Holdings (Mauritius) I Limited

Mauritius 

100 

JPMorgan Securities Holdings LLC

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Commercial Mortgage Investment Corp.

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Institutional Investments Inc.

United States 

100 

Neovest, Inc.

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Special Situations Asia Corporation

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Mauritius Holdings VI Limited

Mauritius 

100 

Harbour Victoria Investment Holdings Limited

Mauritius 

100 

Indocean Financial Holding Limited

Mauritius 

100 

JPMorgan Mauritius Holdings II Limited

Mauritius 

100 

JPMorgan Mauritius Holdings IV Limited

Mauritius 

100 

JPMorgan Mauritius Holdings VII Limited

Mauritius 

100 

JPMorgan Special Situations (Mauritius) Limited

Mauritius 

100 

J.P. Morgan Advisors India Private Limited

India 

99.9999995 
      (62)  

Magenta Magic Limited

British Virgin Islands 

100 

J.P. Morgan Partners, LLC

United States 

100 

JPMP Capital, LLC

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Capital, L.P.

United States 

99.5 
      (63)  

J.P. Morgan Investment Holdings, LLC

United States 

100 

JPMCC Belgium S.P.R.L.

Belgium 

100 

JPMCC Belgium (SCA)

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Partnership Capital Corporation

United States 

100 

J.P. Morgan Partnership Investment Corporation

United States 

100 

Peabody Real Estate Partnership Corporation

United States 

100 

The Peabody Fund Consultants, Inc.

United States 

100 

JPMREP Holding Corporation

United States 

100 

JPMorgan Real Estate Partners, L.P.

United States 

99.9 
      (64)  

PIM Commons, LLC

United States 

100 

Patriot-JPM Conti Charlotte Holdings, LLC

United States 

90 

PIM/KMG Norwood, LLC

United States 

80 

PIM/Waterton Portland Hotel, LLC

United States 

85 

PIM Winchester, LLC

United States 

100 

LabMorgan Corporation

United States 

100 

LabMorgan Investment Corporation

United States 

100 

MorServ, Inc.

United States 

100 

NBD Community Development Corporation

United States 

100 

Offshore Equities, Inc.

United States 

100 

Park Assurance Company

United States 

100 

Special Situations Investing Inc.

United States 

100 

The Bear Stearns Companies LLC

United States 

100 

383 Corporate Funding Inc.

United States 

100 

383 Corporate Funding LLC

United States 

100 

Arctos Partners Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Growth Capital Partners, LP

United States 

100 

Bear Hunter Holdings LLC

United States 

59.63 
      (65)  

Bear Stearns Asset Management Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Access Fund III, L.P.

United States 

1 
      (66)  

Bear Stearns Access Fund IV, L.P.

United States 

1 
      (67)  

Bear Stearns Access Fund V, L.P.

United States 

1 

246 

Percentage of voting 

Organized under 

securities owned by 

Name 
       
     the laws of 

immediate parent 

Bear Stearns Access Fund VI, L.P.

United States 

1 

Bear Stearns Access Fund VII, L.P.

United States 

1 

Bear Stearns Private Equity Opportunity Fund II, L.P.

United States 

1 

Bear Stearns Fund of Hedge Funds Associates LLC

United States 

100 

BX, L.P.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Private Opportunity Ventures, L.P.

United States 

1.07 

Bear Stearns Venture Partners, L.P.

United States 

100 

BSAM Capital Investments Limited

England 

100 

Measurisk, LLC

United States 

80 

Bear Stearns Capital Markets Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Alternative Assets II Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Alternative Assets III Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Global Alternative Assets International Limited

Cayman Islands 

100 

Bear Stearns Alternative Assets International Limited

Cayman Islands 

100 

Bear Stearns Caribbean Asset Holdings Ltd.

Barbados 

100 

Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Equity Strategies RT LLC

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Financial Products Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Global Lending Limited

Cayman Islands 

100 

Bear Stearns International Funding I, Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns International Funding (Bermuda) Limited

Bermuda 

50 
      (68)  

Bear Stearns Overseas Funding Unlimited

England 

100 

Bear Stearns International Funding II, Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Investment Products Inc.

United States 

100 

Aircraft Certificate Seller LLC

United States 

100 

Alpha Financing BS LLC

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Irish Holdings Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns International Funding I S.  r.l.

Luxembourg 

100 

Bear Stearns International Funding II S.  r.l.

Luxembourg 

100 

Bear Stearns International Funding III S.  r.l.

Luxembourg 

100 

Bear Stearns Ireland Limited

Ireland 

100 

Bear Stearns Bank plc

Ireland 

100 

Bear Stearns Services Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns UK Holdings Limited

England 

100 

Bear Stearns Holdings Limited

England 

100 

Bear Stearns International Trading Limited

England 

100 

Bear, Stearns International Limited

England 

100 

Bear Strategic Investments Corp.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd

Singapore 

100 

Bear Stearns
Singapore Management Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

100 

Bear Stearns Financial Services (India) Private Ltd.

India 

99.9999983 
      (69)  

Bear UK Mortgages Limited

England 

100 

Rooftop Funding Limited

England 

100 

Rooftop Mortgages Limited

England 

100 

Bear, Stearns International Holdings Inc.

United States 

100 

Bear Stearns Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

99.999 
      (70)  

Bear Stearns Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

99.9999667 
      (71)  

BSG Insurance Holdings Limited

England 

93 

Minster Insurance Company Limited

England 

100 

Bear, Stearns Netherlands Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

100 

Bear, Stearns Realty Investors, Inc.

United States 

100 

BSC Life Settlement Holdings, LLC

United States 

100 

Thyme Settlements Limited

Ireland 

100 

CL II Holdings LLC

United States 

100 

Commercial Lending II LLC

United States 

99 
      (72)  

Commercial Lending III LLC

United States 

99 
      (73)  

Community Capital Markets LLC

United States 

100 

Commercial Lending LLC

United States 

99 
      (74)  

Constellation Venture Capital II, L.P.

United States 

0.89 

Constellation Venture Capital Offshore II, L.P.

United States 

0.56 

eCAST Settlement Corporation

United States 

100 

EMC Mortgage Corporation

United States 

100 

EMC Mortgage SFJV 2005, LLC

United States 

70 

SFJV 2005, LLC

United States 

70 

Gregory/Madison Avenue LLC

United States 

100 

247 

Percentage of voting 

Organized under 

securities owned by 

Name 
       
     the laws of 

immediate parent 

Indiana Four Holdings LLC

United States 

99 
      (75)   

Indiana Four LLC

United States 

99 
      (76)   

Madison Insurance Company, Inc.

United States 

100 

Madison
Vanderbilt Holdings,  LLC

United States 

100 

MV Partners Fund I, L.P.

United States 

100 

Max Recovery Australia Pty Limited

Australia 

100 

MAX Recovery Inc.

United States 

100 

MAX Flow Corp.

United States 

100 

Max Recovery Limited

England 

100 

MLP Investment Holdings, Inc.

United States 

100 

New Castle Holding, Inc.

United States 

100 

Plymouth Park Tax Services LLC

United States 

100 

Madison Tax Capital, LLC

United States 

100 

Principal Real Estate Funding Corporation Limited

England 

100 

Strategic Mortgage Opportunities REIT Inc.

United States 

100 

Max Recovery Canada Company

United States 

100 

248 

249 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 22
 y74757exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EX-23.1 

Exhibit 23.1 

Consent of independent registered public accounting firm 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on:

Form S-3
Nos: 333-146731, 333-146220, 333-155535 and 333-151397; and

Form S-8 Nos: 333-145108, 333-142109, 333-125827, 333-112967, 333-64476, 333-47350, 333-31666,
333-31634, 333-92217, 333-73119 and 333-150208

of
JPMorgan Chase   Co. or its affiliates of our report dated
February 27, 2009 relating to the
financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which
appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
New York, New York 
March 2, 2009

250 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 23
 y74757exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 
JPMorgan Chase   Co. 

CERTIFICATION

I, James Dimon, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase   Co.; 

2. 
       
     Based upon my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report; 

3. 
       
     Based upon my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal controls over financial reporting, or caused such internal controls
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based upon such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based upon our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
March 2, 2009

/s/ James Dimon

James Dimon  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 24
 y74757exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 
JPMorgan Chase   Co. 

CERTIFICATION

I, Michael J. Cavanagh, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase   Co.; 

2. 
       
     Based upon my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report; 

3. 
       
     Based upon my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal controls over financial reporting, or caused such internal controls
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based upon such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based upon our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
March 2, 2009

/s/ Michael J. Cavanagh

Michael J. Cavanagh  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

252 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 25
 y74757exv32.htm
 EX-32: CERTIFICATION

EX-32 

Exhibit 32 
JPMorgan Chase   Co. 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of JPMorgan Chase   Co. on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ), each of the undersigned officers of JPMorgan Chase   Co., certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

1. 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2. 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of JPMorgan Chase   Co. 

Date: March 2, 2009  
     By:   
     /s/ James Dimon

James Dimon  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Date: March 2, 2009  
     By:   
     /s/ Michael J. Cavanagh

Michael J. Cavanagh  

Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer  

This certification accompanies this Form 10-K and shall not be deemed  filed  for purposes of
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that
Section. 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to, and will
be retained by, JPMorgan Chase   Co. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request. 

253 

</EX-32>

