<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080214_10-K_edgar_data_875045_0000950135-08-001029_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2561193</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>772357</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>6924</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1305565</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>110</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950135-08-001029.hdr.sgml : 20080214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080214170702
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-08-001029
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BIOGEN IDEC INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000875045
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				330112644
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19311
		FILM NUMBER:		08618596

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		14 CAMBRIDGE CENTER
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6176792000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		14 CAMBRIDGE CENTER
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BIOGEN IDEC INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20031112

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORP / DE
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19970530

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FlRbkadTiwkp2NjllfsI3Hn8cvfGHvN7NsX97Iz0bncEWceOZVJuPdHSSdRra5ot
 gX4C9LWTAhmrxYXzQjqtuw==

 0000950135-08-001029.txt : 20080214

10-K
 1
 b68103bie10vk.htm
 BIOGEN IDEC, INC.

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file
     number: 0-19311  

Biogen Idec Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 

33-0112644  

(State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

14 Cambridge Center, 
    Cambridge, Massachusetts 
       (Address of principal
    executive offices)  

02142 
       (Zip
    code)   

(Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

(617) 679-2000  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, $0.0005 par value 

Series X Junior Participating Preferred Stock Purchase
    Rights 

The Nasdaq Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act..  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of the Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer
    or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large
    accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and
     smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer   

Accelerated
    filer   

Non-accelerated
    filer     
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the Registrant s Common Stock
    held by non-affiliates of the Registrant (without admitting that
    any person whose shares are not included in such calculation is
    an affiliate) computed by reference to the price at which the
    common stock was last sold as of the last business day of the
    Registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    was $18,378,524,103.

As of February 8, 2008, the Registrant had
    297,750,601 shares of Common Stock, $0.0005 par value,
    issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into
    Part III of this Report.

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. 

ANNUAL
    REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K  

For the
    Year Ended December 31, 2007 

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Overview 

1

Our Products and Late-Stage Product Candidates 

3

Products We No Longer Sell 

11

Our Other Research and Development Programs 

12

Research and Development Costs 

13

Principal Licensed Products 

13

Patents and Other Proprietary Rights 

14

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

16

Competition 

18

Regulatory 

19

Manufacturing and Raw Materials 

24

Our Employees 

25

Our Executive Officers 

26

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

29

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

39

Item 2. 

Properties 

40

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

40

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

43

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

44

Item 6. 

Selected Consolidated Financial Data 

46

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

47

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

72

Item 8. 

Consolidated Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data 

72

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

72

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

72

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

72

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

73

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

73

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

73

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

73

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

73

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

74

Signatures 

79

Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-1

In this report,  Biogen Idec,   we, 
     us  and  our  refer to Biogen Idec Inc.

Ex-10.22 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan    
     Ex-10.33 Board of Directors - Annual Retainer Summary Sheet    
     Ex-10.45 Amend. No.1 to 2006 Non-employee Directors Equity Plan    
     Ex-10.49 Letter regarding employement arrangement of Paul J. Clancy    
     Ex-10.50 Letter regarding employement arrangement of Robert Hamm    
     Ex-10.51 Consulting Agreement, dated December 18, 2007    
     Ex-10.52 Executive Severance Policy - Executive Vice President    
     Ex-10.53 Executive Severance Policy - International Executive Vice President    
     Ex-10.54 Executive Severance Policy - Senior Vice President    
     Ex-10.55 Supplemental Savings Plan as amended and restated    
     Ex-10.56 Voluntary Board of Directors Savings Plan    
     Ex-21.1 Subsidiaries    
     Ex-23.1 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    
     Ex-31.1 Section 302 Certification of CEO    
     Ex-31.2 Section 302 Certification of CFO    
     Ex-32-1 Section 906 Certification of CEO & CFO    

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

Overview  

Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas
    with high unmet medical needs. Biogen Idec is a global leader in
    the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of
    innovative therapies. Patients in more than 90 countries benefit
    from Biogen Idec s significant products that address
    diseases such as multiple sclerosis, lymphoma and rheumatoid
    arthritis. We currently have four products:

AVONEX   
    (interferon beta-1a)  

AVONEX is approved worldwide for the treatment of relapsing
    forms of multiple sclerosis, or MS, and is the most prescribed
    therapeutic product in MS worldwide. Globally over
    135,000 patients use AVONEX.

RITUXAN   
    (rituximab)  

RITUXAN is approved worldwide for the treatment of relapsed or
    refractory low-grade or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell
    non-Hodgkin s lymphomas, or B-cell NHLs. The U.S. Food
    and Drug Administration, or FDA, has also approved RITUXAN for
    (1) the treatment of patients with previously untreated
    diffuse, large B-cell NHL in combination with
    anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens, (2) treatment of
    patients with previously-untreated follicular NHL in combination
    with CVP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone)
    chemotherapy, and (3) the treatment of patients with
    non-progressing (including stable disease) low grade B-cell NHL
    following first-line treatment with CVP chemotherapy. We believe
    that RITUXAN is the second highest-selling oncology therapeutic
    in the United States and has had more than
    1,000,000 patient exposures worldwide across all
    indications. In addition, RITUXAN, in combination with
    methotrexate, is also approved for reducing signs and symptoms
    and to slow the progression of structural damage in adult
    patients with
     moderately-to-severely 
    active rheumatoid arthritis, or RA, who have had an inadequate
    response to one or more tumor necrosis factor, or TNF,
    antagonist therapies. We are working with Genentech and Roche on
    the development of RITUXAN in additional oncology, neurology and
    immunology indications.

RITUXAN is the trade name for the compound rituximab in the
    U.S., Canada and Japan. MabThera is the trade name for rituximab
    in the European Union, or EU. In this Annual Report, we refer to
    rituximab, RITUXAN, and MabThera collectively as RITUXAN, except
    where we have otherwise indicated.

TYSABRI   
    (natalizumab)  

TYSABRI is approved for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS
    in the U.S. and other countries, and in the U.S. for
    inducing and maintaining clinical response and remission in
    adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn s
    disease, or CD, with evidence of inflammation who have had an
    inadequate response to, or are unable to tolerate, conventional
    CD therapies and inhibitors of TNF-alpha. Under the terms of a
    collaboration agreement with Elan Corporation plc, or Elan, we
    are solely responsible for the manufacture of TYSABRI, and we
    collaborate with Elan on the product s marketing,
    commercial distribution and on-going development activities. The
    collaboration agreement with Elan is designed to effect an equal
    sharing of profits and losses generated by the activities of the
    collaboration between Elan and us.

FUMADERM   
    (dimethylfumarate and monoethylfumarate salts)  

FUMADERM was acquired with the purchase of Fumapharm AG, or
    Fumapharm, in June 2006. In December 2006, we acquired the right
    to distribute FUMADERM in Germany from Fumedica effective
    May 1, 2007. FUMADERM acts as an immunomodulator and has
    been approved in Germany for the treatment of severe psoriasis
    since 1994.

Other
    Revenue and Programs  

In 2007, we recorded product revenues from sales of
     ZEVALIN    
     (ibritumomab tiuxetan)  prior to our sale of
    U.S. rights to this product line in December 2007.

1

Table of Contents   

We also receive royalty revenues on sales by our licensees of a
    number of products covered under patents that we control. In
    addition, we have a pipeline of research and development
    products in our core therapeutic areas and in other areas of
    interest.

We devote significant resources to research and development
    programs and external business and corporate development
    efforts. We intend to focus our research and development efforts
    on finding novel therapeutics in areas of high unmet medical
    need, both within our current focus areas of oncology,
    neurology, immunology and cardiology as well as in new
    therapeutic areas. Our current late stage efforts include our
    work with Genentech and Roche on the development of RITUXAN in
    additional oncology indications, RA, MS and lupus and the
    co-development of additional anti-CD20 antibody products
    including the humanized anti-CD20 antibody (ocrelizumab), which
    is in Phase 3 studies in rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus
    erythematosus; BG-12 for relapsing forms of MS in Phase 3;
    galiximab for NHL in Phase 3; and lumiliximab for chronic
    lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL, in Phase 2/3; and lixivaptan for
    acute hyponatremia, currently initiating Phase 3 clinical
    studies.

Available
    Information  

We are a Delaware corporation with principal executive offices
    located at 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142.
    Our telephone number is
     (617) 679-2000 
    and our website address is www.biogenidec.com. We make available
    free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our
    website our Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.
    We include our website address in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be
    an active link to our website. You may read and copy materials
    we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at
    450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. You
    may get information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room by calling the SEC at
     1-800-SEC-0330. 
    The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy
    and information statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC at
     www.sec.gov. 

2

Table of Contents   

Our
    Products and Late-Stage Product Candidates  

Our products are targeted to address a variety of key medical
    needs in the areas of oncology, neurology, immunology and
    cardiology. Our marketed products and late stage product
    candidates are as follows:

Development and/or 

Product 

Product Indications 

Status 

Marketing Collaborators 

AVONEX  

Relapsing forms of MS

Approved   numerous countries worldwide

None

RITUXAN  

Certain B-cell NHLs

Approved   numerous countries worldwide

All RITUXAN Indications:   
    U.S.   Genentech  
    Japan   Roche and Zenyaku Outside U.S. and
    Japan   Roche

Rheumatoid arthritis

Approved   U.S. for anti-TNF-inadequate responders

See above

Phase 3   DMARD inadequate responders

See above

Relapsed CLL

Phase 3

See above

Lupus

Phase 2/3

Genentech

MS

Phase 2/3

See above, except for PPMS indication which is only Genentech

TYSABRI  

Relapsing forms of MS

Approved   U.S., EU Switzerland, Canada, Australia,
    New Zealand and Israel

Elan

Crohn s disease

Approved   U.S.

See above

FUMADERM  

Severe psoriasis

Approved   Germany

Almirall

BG-12  

MS

Phase 3

None

Anti-CD80 MAb/ 
    galiximab  

Relapsed or refractory NHL

Phase 3

None

Anti-CD23 MAb/ 
    lumiliximab  

Relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia

Phase 2/3

None

Humanized Anti-CD20 
    MAb/Ocrelizumab  

Rheumatoid Arthritis

Phase 3

U.S.   Genentech Japan   Roche and Zenyaku
    Outside U.S. and Japan   Roche

Systemic Lupus Erythematosus

Phase 3

See above

Lixivaptan  

Acute Hyponatremia

Phase 3   planned

Cardiokine Biopharma LLC

Approved
    Indications and Ongoing Development  

AVONEX   

We currently market and sell AVONEX worldwide for the treatment
    of relapsing forms of MS. In 2007, sales of AVONEX generated
    worldwide revenues of $1,867.8 million as compared to
    worldwide revenues of $1,706.7 million in 2006.

MS is a progressive neurological disease in which the body loses
    the ability to transmit messages along nerve cells, leading to a
    loss of muscle control, paralysis and, in some cases, death.
    Patients with active relapsing MS experience an uneven pattern
    of disease progression characterized by periods of stability
    that are interrupted by
     flare-ups  of
    the disease after which the patient returns to a new baseline of
    functioning. AVONEX is a recombinant form of a protein produced
    in the body by fibroblast cells in response to viral infection.
    AVONEX has been shown in clinical trials in relapsing forms of
    MS both to slow the accumulation of disability and to reduce the
    frequency of
     flare-ups. 
    AVONEX is approved to treat relapsing forms of MS, including
    patients with a first clinical episode and MRI features
    consistent with MS. We began selling AVONEX in the U.S. in
    1996, and in the EU in 1997. AVONEX is on the market in over 70
    countries. Based on data from an independent third party
    research organization, information from our distributors and
    internal analysis, we believe that AVONEX is the most prescribed
    therapeutic product for the treatment of MS worldwide. Globally
    over 135,000 patients use AVONEX.

We continue to work to expand the data available about AVONEX
    and MS treatments. In October 2007, we presented at the Congress
    of the European Committee for Treatment and Research of Multiple
    Sclerosis, or ECTRIMS, in Prague, Czech Republic, on the final
    results from a worldwide comparative study (QUASIMS) of the
    efficacy and tolerability of interferon-beta products for the
    treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis. This retrospective,
    observational study presented at ECTRIMS involved 7,542 MS
    patients. This geographically diverse

3

Table of Contents   

group from a range of clinical practice settings is the largest
    cohort of patients with relapsing remitting MS, or RRMS, that
    has been studied to evaluate and compare patient outcomes with
    interferon beta. The effects of all currently available
    interferon beta treatments were similar over 2 years in
    patients with RRMS. Even in patients with higher baseline
    annualized relapse rates or expanded disability status scale
    scores, there was no clear benefit of one interferon over
    another. This is in contrast to two earlier studies suggesting
    there were differences in efficacy between certain interferon
    beta formulations and dosing regimens (the Independent
    Comparison of Interferon (INCOMIN) and Evidence of Interferon
    Dose-Response and European   North American
    Comparative Efficacy (EVIDENCE) trials). Of the treatments
    studied, however, AVONEX requires the least frequent
    administration.

We have also extended the Controlled High Risk AVONEX Multiple
    Sclerosis Prevention Study In Ongoing Neurological Surveillance,
    or CHAMPIONS. CHAMPIONS was originally designed to determine
    whether the effect of early treatment with AVONEX in delaying
    relapses and reducing the accumulation of MS brain lesions could
    be sustained for up to five years. The study results showed that
    AVONEX altered the long-term course of MS in patients who began
    treatment immediately after their initial MS attack compared to
    initiation of treatment more than two years after onset of
    symptoms. The five-year study extension is intended to determine
    if the effects of early treatment with AVONEX can be sustained
    for up to ten years. We also continue to support Phase 4
    investigator-run studies evaluating AVONEX in combination with
    other therapies.

RITUXAN   

RITUXAN is approved worldwide for the treatment of relapsed or
    refractory low-grade or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell NHLs,
    which comprise approximately half of the B-cell NHLs diagnosed
    in the U.S. In the U.S., RITUXAN is approved for NHL with
    the following label indications:

The treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory, low-grade
    or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL as a single agent;

The treatment of patients with previously untreated diffuse
    large B-cell, CD20-positive, NHL, or DLBCL, in combination with
    CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone)
    or other anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens;

The treatment of patients with previously untreated follicular,
    CD20-positive, B-cell NHL in combination with CVP
    (cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone)
    chemotherapy; and

The treatment of patients with non-progressing (including stable
    disease), low grade CD20-positive, B-cell NHL, as a single
    agent, after first line CVP chemotherapy.

In addition, RITUXAN, in combination with methotrexate, is also
    approved for reducing signs and symptoms and to slow the
    progression of structural damage in adult patients with
     moderately-to-severely 
    active rheumatoid arthritis, or RA, who have had an inadequate
    response to one or more TNF antagonist therapies.

Our interest in RITUXAN is recognized as revenue from
    unconsolidated joint business, and is made up of three
    components:

We copromote RITUXAN in the U.S. in collaboration with
    Genentech. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by
    Genentech, and we record our share of the pretax copromotion
    profits on a quarterly basis. In 2007, RITUXAN generated
    U.S. net sales of $2.3 billion, of which we recorded
    $616.8 million as our share of copromotion profits, as
    compared to U.S. net sales of $2.1 billion in 2006, of
    which we recorded $555.8 million as our share of
    copromotion profits;

Roche sells RITUXAN outside the U.S., except in Japan where it
    co-markets RITUXAN in collaboration with Zenyaku Kogyo Co. Ltd.,
    or Zenyaku. We received royalties through Genentech on sales of
    RITUXAN outside of the U.S. of $250.8 million in 2007
    as compared to $194.0 million in 2006; and

Finally, we receive reimbursement from Genentech for our selling
    and development expenses.

In the U.S., we share responsibility with Genentech for
    continued development. Such continued development includes
    conducting supportive research and post-approval clinical
    studies and seeking potential approval for additional
    indications. Genentech provides the support functions for the
    commercialization of RITUXAN in the U.S. and has worldwide
    manufacturing responsibilities. See  Sales, Marketing and
    Distribution   RITUXAN  and  Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials.  We also have the right to collaborate
    with Genentech on the development of

4

Table of Contents   

other humanized anti-CD20 antibodies targeting B-cell disorders
    for a broad range of indications, and to copromote with
    Genentech any new products resulting from such development in
    the U.S. The most advanced such humanized anti-CD20
    antibody under development, ocrelizumab, is in Phase 3 trials in
    rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. We are
    currently in arbitration with Genentech as to whether Genentech
    has the right to develop collaboration products, including the
    second-generation humanized anti-CD20 molecule, without our
    approval. See  Item 3   Legal
    Proceedings  for a description of that arbitration. Our
    agreement with Genentech provides that the successful
    development and commercialization of new anti-CD20 product
    candidates in our collaboration (which also includes RITUXAN)
    will decrease our participation in the operating profits from
    the collaboration (including as to RITUXAN). See Consolidated
    Financial Statements Note 16, Unconsolidated Joint Business
    Arrangement.

RITUXAN
    in Oncology  

We believe that RITUXAN is the second-highest-selling oncology
    therapeutic in the United States and has had more than
    1,000,000 patient exposures worldwide across all
    indications. RITUXAN is generally administered as outpatient
    therapy by personnel trained in administering chemotherapies or
    biologics. RITUXAN is unique in the treatment of B-cell NHLs due
    to its specificity for the antigen CD20, which is expressed only
    on the surface of normal B-cells and malignant B-cells. Stem
    cells (including B-cell progenitors or precursor B-cells) in
    bone marrow lack the CD20 antigen. This allows healthy B-cells
    to regenerate after treatment with RITUXAN and to return to
    normal levels within several months. RITUXAN s mechanism of
    action, in part, utilizes the body s own immune system as
    compared to conventional lymphoma therapies.

In an effort to identify additional applications for RITUXAN,
    we, in conjunction with Genentech and Roche, continue to support
    RITUXAN post-marketing studies. We, along with Genentech and
    Roche, are conducting a multi-center global Phase 3
    registrational study known as REACH in patients with relapsed
    chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL, comparing the use of
    fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and RITUXAN together, known as
    FCR, versus fludarabine and cyclophosphamide alone. Enrollment
    for this study was completed in the third quarter of 2007. We,
    along with Genentech and Roche, are also conducting a trial
    known as PRIMA that is evaluating the added efficacy of RITUXAN
    maintenance therapy after previously untreated follicular
    non-Hodgkin s lymphoma patients are given a combination of
    chemotherapy and RITUXAN. To date, the added benefit of RITUXAN
    has only been evaluated in relapsed patients. PRIMA completed
    enrollment in 2007. Additional clinical studies are ongoing in
    other B-cell malignancies such as lymphoproliferative disorders
    associated with solid organ transplant therapies, relapsed
    aggressive non-Hodgkin s lymphoma and mantle cell
    non-Hodgkin s lymphoma.

RITUXAN
    in RA  

RITUXAN, in combination with methotrexate, is approved for
    reducing signs and symptoms and to slow the progression of
    structural damage in adult patients with
     moderately-to-severely 
    active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response
    to one or more TNF antagonist therapies. We, along with
    Genentech and Roche, initiated a Phase 3 clinical study of
    RITUXAN in RA patients who are inadequate responders to
    disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, or DMARDs, in 2006. In
    January 2008 we announced that the study, known as SERENE, met
    its primary endpoint of a significantly greater proportion of
    RITUXAN-treated patients achieving an American College of
    Rheumatology (ACR) 20 response (the proportion of patients who
    achieve at least 20% improvement) at week 24, compared to
    placebo. In this study patients who received either 500 mg
    or 1000 mg of RITUXAN as a single treatment course of two
    infusions in combination with a stable dose of methotrexate
    displayed a statistically significant improvement in symptoms
    compared to patients who received placebo in combination with
    methotrexate. Although the study was not designed to compare the
    RITUXAN doses, the efficacy of the two doses appeared to be
    similiar. Further analyses of the data are ongoing and will be
    submitted for presentation at an upcoming medical meeting. In
    2007 we received positive results from the Phase 3 study known
    as SUNRISE, investigating the controlled re-treatment of
    patients who are inadequate responders to TNF therapies.
    Patients who were not in remission at 24 weeks following
    administration of a course of RITUXAN were randomized to receive
    either a second course of RITUXAN or placebo. The primary
    endpoint, the proportion of retreated patients with an ACR 20
    response at Week 48 relative to baseline, was achieved with
    significantly more patients achieving an ACR 20 with RITUXAN
    retreatment compared to placebo. Genentech and Biogen Idec will
    continue to analyze the study results and we anticipate
    presenting the results at an upcoming meeting in 2008.

5

Table of Contents   

RITUXAN
    in Other Immunology Indications  

Based primarily on results from the studies of RITUXAN in RA, as
    well as other small investigator-sponsored studies in various
    autoimmune-mediated diseases, we, along with Genentech, are
    conducting a Phase 3 clinical study of RITUXAN in primary
    progressive MS, or PPMS, and a registrational program in
    systemic lupus erythematosus, or SLE, comprised of a Phase 3
    study in lupus nephritis and a Phase 2/3 study in a general SLE
    population. We anticipate reporting results from the PPMS and
    SLE studies in the first half of 2008. Enrollment in the Lupus
    Nephritis study is still ongoing. In August 2006, we and
    Genentech announced that a Phase 2 study of RITUXAN in
    relapsing-remitting MS met its primary endpoint. Results were
    presented at the American Academy of Neurology annual meeting in
    May 2007. The study of 104 patients showed a statistically
    significant reduction in the total number of gadolinium
    enhancing T1 lesions observed on serial MRI scans of the brain
    at weeks 12, 16, 20 and 24 in the RITUXAN-treated group compared
    to placebo. At week 24, the total cumulative mean number of
    gadolinium lesions per patient was reduced by 91%, to 0.5 in the
    RITUXAN-treated group from 5.5 in the placebo group (p0.001). In
    addition, the proportion of patients with relapses over
    24 weeks in the RITUXAN-treated arm was 14.5% compared to
    34.3% in the placebo arm (58% relative reduction) (p=0.02). The
    result of statistical testing is often defined in terms of a
     p-value,  with a level of 0.05 or less considered to
    be a statistically significant difference, which means the
    result is unlikely due to chance.

In December 2006, we and Genentech issued a dear healthcare
    provider letter informing healthcare providers that two cases of
    progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, or PML, a rare and
    frequently fatal demyelinating disease of the central nervous
    system, resulting in death were reported in patients receiving
    RITUXAN for treatment of SLE, an indication where RITUXAN is not
    approved for treatment. The prescribing information for RITUXAN
    has been updated to reflect these reports.

TYSABRI   

TYSABRI is approved for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS.
    On June 5, 2006, we and Elan announced the FDA s
    approval of the supplemental Biologics License Application, or
    sBLA, for the reintroduction of TYSABRI as a monotherapy
    treatment for relapsing forms of MS to slow the progression of
    disability and reduce the frequency of clinical relapses. On
    June 29, 2006, we and Elan announced that the European
    Medicines Agency, or EMEA, had approved TYSABRI as a similar
    treatment. TYSABRI is also approved for MS in Switzerland,
    Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Israel.

TYSABRI was initially approved by the FDA in November 2004 to
    treat relapsing forms of MS to reduce the frequency of clinical
    relapses. In February 2005, in consultation with the FDA, we and
    Elan voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial
    distribution of TYSABRI based on reports of cases of PML in
    patients treated with TYSABRI in clinical studies. In
    consideration of these events, TYSABRI is marketed under risk
    management or minimization plans as agreed with local regulatory
    authorities. In the U.S., TYSABRI was reintroduced with a risk
    minimization action plan, or RiskMAP, known as the TYSABRI
    Outreach: Unified Commitment to Health, or TOUCH, Prescribing
    Program, a rigorous system intended to educate physicians and
    patients about the risks involved and assure appropriate use of
    the product.

As of late December 2007, more than 21,000 patients were on
    commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide. As of
    mid-December 2007, up to 30,900 patients had been treated
    with TYSABRI cumulatively in the combined clinical trial and
    post-marketing settings. There have been no new cases of PML
    since relaunch in the U.S. and launch internationally in
    July 2006.

On January 14, 2008, we and Elan announced the FDA s
    approval of the sBLA for use of TYSABRI for inducing and
    maintaining clinical response and remission in adult patients
    with moderately to severely active Crohn s disease, or CD,
    with evidence of inflammation who have had an inadequate
    response to, or are unable to tolerate, conventional CD
    therapies and inhibitors of TNF-alpha. TYSABRI will be available
    for the treatment of CD upon the completion of key
    implementation activities related to the approved risk
    management plan. We anticipate TYSABRI will be available to
    Crohn s patients by the end of the first quarter of 2008.

The FDA granted approval based on its review of overall safety
    data and the results of three randomized, double-blind,
    placebo-controlled, multi-center trials of TYSABRI assessing the
    safety and efficacy as both an induction and maintenance
    therapy   ENCORE (Efficacy of Natalizumab in
    Crohn s Disease Response and Remission), ENACT-1 (Efficacy
    of Natalizumab as Active Crohn s Therapy) and ENACT-2
    (Evaluation of

6

Table of Contents   

Natalizumab As Continuous Therapy). The approval contains
    labeling and a risk management plan, both of which are similar
    to those approved for the MS indication. One of the confirmed
    cases of PML was in a patient who was in a clinical study of
    TYSABRI in Crohn s disease.

In September 2004, Elan submitted a Marketing Authorisation
    Application, or MAA, to the EMEA for approval of TYSABRI as a
    treatment for Crohn s disease. A committee of the EMEA
    adopted a negative recommendation in November 2007. The European
    Commission affirmed the committee s decision in the first
    quarter of 2008, which means that Crohn s disease will not
    be included in our label for TYSABRI in the EU.

TYSABRI binds to adhesion molecules on the immune cell surface
    known as alpha-4 integrin. Adhesion molecules on the surface of
    the immune cells play an important role in the migration of the
    immune cells in the inflammatory process. Research suggests that
    by binding to alpha-4 integrin, TYSABRI prevents immune cells
    from migrating from the bloodstream into tissue where they can
    cause inflammation and potentially damage nerve fibers and their
    insulation.

Under the terms of the collaboration, we are solely responsible
    for the manufacture of TYSABRI, and we collaborate with Elan on
    the product s marketing, commercial distribution and
    ongoing development activities. The collaboration agreement with
    Elan is designed to effect an equal sharing of profits and
    losses generated by the activities of the collaboration between
    Elan and us. Under our agreement with Elan, however, in the
    event that sales of TYSABRI exceed specified thresholds, Elan is
    required to make milestone payments to us in order to continue
    sharing equally in the collaboration s results.

In the U.S., we sell TYSABRI to Elan who sells the product to
    third party distributors. Elan and we co-market the product. The
    sales price to Elan in the U.S. is set at the beginning of
    each quarterly period to effect an approximate equal sharing of
    the gross margin between Elan and us. In addition, both parties
    share equally in the operating costs, which include research and
    development, selling, general and administrative expenses and
    other similar costs. Sales of TYSABRI to Elan are reported as
    revenues and are recognized upon Elan s shipment of the
    product to third party distributors, at which time all revenue
    recognition criteria have been met. As of December 31, 2007
    and 2006, we had deferred revenue of $9.0 and $5.0 million,
    respectively, for shipments to Elan that remained in Elan s
    ending inventory. Elan s reimbursement of TYSABRI operating
    costs is reflected as a reduction of the respective costs within
    our consolidated statement of income.

For sales outside of the U.S., we are responsible for
    distributing TYSABRI to customers and are primarily responsible
    for all operating activities. We and Elan share equally in the
    operating results of TYSABRI outside the U.S. Sales of
    TYSABRI are reported as revenue and are recognized at the time
    of product delivery to our customer, at which time all revenue
    recognition criteria have been met. Payments to or from Elan for
    their share of the collaboration operating losses relating to
    sales outside the U.S. are reflected in the collaboration
    profit (loss) sharing line in our consolidated statement of
    income. For 2007 and 2006, we provided and received net payments
    of $14.1 million and ($9.7) million, respectively,
    related to reimbursements made in connection with this
    arrangement.

In July 2006, we began to ship TYSABRI in both the United States
    and Europe. In 2007, we recorded sales of TYSABRI in the
    U.S. and Europe of $104.4 million and
    $125.5 million, respectively. In 2006, we recorded sales of
    TYSABRI in the U.S. and Europe relating to current activity
    of $11.9 million and $10.0 million, respectively.
    Prior to the suspension of TYSABRI in 2005, we shipped product
    to Elan in the U.S. and recognized revenue in accordance
    with the policy described above. As a result of the suspension
    of TYSABRI, we deferred $14.0 million in revenue from Elan
    as of March 31, 2005 related to TYSABRI product that
    remained in Elan s ending inventory. This amount was paid
    by Elan during 2005 and was subsequently recognized as revenue
    during 2006, when the uncertainty about the ultimate disposition
    of the product was eliminated.

PHASE 3
    Studies of TYSABRI in MS  

Prior to the suspension of dosing in clinical studies of TYSABRI
    we, along with Elan, completed the AFFIRM study and the SENTINEL
    study. The AFFIRM study was designed to evaluate the ability of
    natalizumab to slow the progression of disability in MS and
    reduce the rate of clinical relapses. The SENTINEL study was
    designed to evaluate the effect of the combination of
    natalizumab and AVONEX compared to treatment with AVONEX alone
    in slowing progression of disability and reducing the rate of
    clinical relapses. Both studies were two-year studies which had
    protocols that included a one-year analysis of the data.

7

Table of Contents   

The
    AFFIRM study  

The one-year data from the AFFIRM study showed that TYSABRI
    reduced the rate of clinical relapses by 66% relative to
    placebo, the primary endpoint at one year. AFFIRM also met all
    one-year secondary endpoints, including MRI measures. In the
    TYSABRI treated group, 60% of patients developed no new or newly
    enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions compared to 22% of placebo
    treated patients. On the one-year MRI scan, 96% of TYSABRI
    treated patients had no gadolinium-enhancing lesions compared to
    68% of placebo treated patients. The proportion of patients who
    remained relapse free was 76% in the TYSABRI treated group
    compared to 53% in the placebo treated group. In February 2005,
    we and Elan announced that the AFFIRM study also achieved the
    two-year primary endpoint of slowing the progression of
    disability in patients with relapsing forms of MS. In the
    TYSABRI treated group, there was a 42% reduction in the risk of
    disability progression relative to placebo, and a 67% reduction
    in the rate of clinical relapses over two years relative to
    placebo which was sustained and consistent with the one-year
    results. Other efficacy data, including MRI measures, were
    similar to the one-year results.

In May 2007 at the annual meeting of the American Academy of
    Neurology in Boston, we presented extension study data that
    showed that TYSABRI has a sustained treatment effect on clinical
    relapses and the risk of disability progression in MS patients
    treated for up to three years. Patients who participated in the
    Phase 3 TYSABRI program (including the AFFIRM trial) were
    eligible to enroll in an open-label extension study that
    evaluated the therapy s long-term effects. In the
     intent-to-treat 
    analysis, the annualized relapse rate for patients treated with
    TYSABRI over the three-year period was 0.23, translating into an
    average of one relapse every 4.3 years. The relapse rate
    also continued to remain low over the three-year treatment
    period with TYSABRI: 0.27 during the first year; 0.20 during the
    second year; and 0.15 during the third year (based on
    531 patients who entered the extension study, which
    includes approximately 250 patients with nearly three years
    of continuous therapy). In addition, TYSABRI also decreased the
    cumulative probability of disability progression sustained for
    six months compared to placebo. The estimated proportion of
    patients who had 24-week sustained disability progression at two
    years was 11% in patients treated with TYSABRI compared to 23%
    in patients treated with placebo, a 54% relative reduction. This
    effect was maintained in patients treated with TYSABRI for up to
    three years with 13% showing 24-week sustained disability
    progression.

In October 2007 at the 23rd Congress of ECTRIMS in Prague,
    Czech Republic, we presented a poster on a post hoc analysis of
    the Phase 3 AFFIRM study. The study data suggest the proportion
    of disease-free patients over two years was significantly higher
    in the TYSABRI-treated group compared with the placebo group, as
    determined based upon both clinical and MRI criteria. Using
    clinical and MRI disease-free criteria combined, the most
    stringent definition of disease free, 36.7% of TYSABRI-treated
    patients had no relapses, disability progression or MRI activity
    compared with 7.2% of placebo patients (p0.0001). In the
    clinical analysis, 64.3% of TYSABRI-treated patients vs. 38.9%
    placebo-treated patients (p0.0001) were disease free or without
    relapses and disability progression. Using MRI measures, 57.7%
    of TYSABRI-treated patients vs. 14.2% placebo-treated patients
    (p0.0001) were disease free, or without gadolinium-enhancing
    lesions and new or enlarging T2-hyperintense lesions.

The
    SENTINEL study  

The one-year data from the SENTINEL combination study also
    showed that the study achieved its one-year primary endpoint.
    The addition of TYSABRI to AVONEX resulted in a 54% reduction in
    the rate of clinical relapses over the effect of AVONEX alone.
    SENTINEL also met all secondary endpoints, including MRI
    measures. In the group treated with TYSABRI plus AVONEX, 67% of
    the patients developed no new or newly enlarging T2 hyperintense
    lesions compared to 40% in the AVONEX plus placebo group. On the
    one-year MRI scan, 96% of TYSABRI plus AVONEX-treated patients
    had no gadolinium-enhancing lesions compared to 76% of AVONEX
    plus placebo treated patients. The proportion of patients who
    remained relapse free was 67% in the TYSABRI plus AVONEX-treated
    group compared to 46% in the AVONEX plus placebo-treated group.
    In the TYSABRI-treated group, 60% of patients developed no new
    or newly enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions compared to 22% of
    placebo treated patients. On the one-year MRI scan, 96% of
    TYSABRI treated patients had no gadolinium-enhancing lesions
    compared to 68% of placebo treated patients. In July 2005, we
    and Elan announced that the SENTINEL study also achieved the
    two-year primary endpoint of slowing the progression of
    disability in patients with relapsing forms of MS. The addition
    of TYSABRI to AVONEX resulted in a 24% reduction in the risk of
    disability progression compared to the effect of AVONEX alone,
    and a 56% reduction in the rate of clinical relapses over two

8

Table of Contents   

years compared to that provided by AVONEX alone. Other efficacy
    data, including MRI measures, were similar to the one-year
    results.

Phase 3
    Studies of TYSABRI in Crohn s Disease  

We, along with Elan, have completed three Phase 3 studies of
    TYSABRI in Crohn s disease, a chronic and progressive
    inflammatory disease of the gastrointestinal tract, which
    commonly affects both men and women. The three completed Phase 3
    studies are known as ENACT-2 (Evaluation of Natalizumab as
    Continuous Therapy-2), ENACT-1 (Evaluation of Natalizumab as
    Continuous Therapy-1), and ENCORE (Efficacy of Natalizumab for
    Crohn s Disease Response and Remission).

ENACT-1/ENACT-2  

In ENACT-2, 339 patients who were responders in ENACT-1,
    the Phase 3 induction study, were re-randomized to one of two
    treatment groups, TYSABRI or placebo, both administered monthly
    for a total of 12 months. In ENACT-1, the primary endpoint
    of  response,  as defined by a 70-point decrease in
    the Crohn s Disease Activity Index, or CDAI, at week 10,
    was not met. In ENACT-2, the primary endpoint, which was met,
    was maintenance of response through six additional months of
    therapy. A loss of response was defined as a greater than 70
    point increase in CDAI score and a total CDAI score above 220 or
    any rescue intervention. Through month six, there was a
    significant treatment difference of greater than 30% in favor of
    patients taking TYSABRI compared to those taking placebo.
    Twelve-month data from ENACT-2 showed a sustained and clinically
    significant response throughout 12 months of extended
    TYSABRI infusion therapy, confirming findings in patients who
    had previously shown a sustained response throughout six months.
    Maintenance of response was defined by a CDAI score of less than
    220, and less than 70-point increase from baseline, in the
    absence of rescue intervention throughout the study. Response
    was maintained by 54% of patients treated with natalizumab
    compared to 20% of those treated with placebo (p0.001). In
    addition, 39% of patients on TYSABRI maintained clinical
    remission during the study period, versus 15% of those on
    placebo (p0.001). By the end of month six, 58% of patients
    treated with TYSABRI who had previously been treated with
    corticosteroids were able to withdraw from steroid therapy
    compared to 28% of placebo-treated patients.

The
    ENCORE study  

In June 2005, we and Elan announced that ENCORE, the second
    Phase 3 induction trial of TYSABRI for the treatment of
    moderately to severely active Crohn s disease in patients
    with evidence of active inflammation, met the primary endpoint
    of clinical response as defined by a 70-point decrease in
    baseline CDAI score at both weeks 8 and 12. The study also met
    all of its secondary endpoints, including clinical remission at
    both weeks 8 and 12. Clinical remission was defined as achieving
    a CDAI score of equal to or less than 150 at weeks 8 and 12. At
    the time of the TYSABRI suspension, all ENCORE study patients
    had completed dosing based on the study protocol and collection
    of data and analysis followed.

TYSABRI
    in Oncology   

We plan to initiate a Phase 1/2 study of TYSABRI in multiple
    myeloma in 2008.

FUMADERM   

FUMADERM (dimethylfumarate and monoethylfumarate salts) was
    acquired with the purchase of Fumapharm in June 2006. In
    December 2006, we acquired the right to distribute FUMADERM in
    Germany from Fumedica effective May 1, 2007. FUMADERM acts
    as an immunomodulator and is approved in Germany for the
    treatment of severe psoriasis. In 2007 and 2006, sales of
    FUMADERM in Germany totaled $21.5 million and
    $9.5 million, respectively, which we recorded from the date
    of acquisition of Fumapharm. The product has been in commercial
    use in Germany for approximately eleven years and is the most
    prescribed oral systemic treatment for severe psoriasis in
    Germany.

Late-Stage
    Product Candidates  

BG-12   

BG-12, an oral fumarate derivative, is an immunomodulatory with
    a novel mechanism of action with a combination of
    neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties. We acquired
    BG-12 with the purchase of

9

Table of Contents   

Fumapharm in June 2006. We completed a Phase 2b clinical study
    of BG-12 in patients with relapsing-remitting MS in October
    2005. In January 2006, we announced that this study had achieved
    its primary efficacy endpoint. Based on the results of the Phase
    2 study, we announced that we initiated a Phase 3 program of
    BG-12 in relapsing remitting MS in January 2007. Fumapharm has
    also completed a small Phase 3 study in Germany of BG-12 in
    psoriasis.

Galiximab/(ANTI-CD80
    Antibody)   

The CD80 antigen is expressed on the surface of follicular and
    other lymphoma cells, and is also known as B7.1. In the fourth
    quarter of 2005, we completed a Phase 2a study designed to
    evaluate the anti-tumor activity of an anti-CD80 antibody,
    galiximab, that we developed using our
    Primatized   
    antibody technology in patients with relapsed non-Hodgkin s
    lymphoma simultaneously receiving rituximab. In this study, the
    combination of the two antibodies was well tolerated, with
    observation of clinical responses in patients treated with
    higher doses. Based on the results of the Phase 2a study, we
    announced that we initiated a Phase 3 study of the antibody in
    relapsed non-Hodgkin s lymphoma in combination with RITUXAN
    in January 2007. We anticipate initial data from a Cancer and
    Leukemia Group B trial using RITUXAN and galiximab combination
    therapy in previously untreated subjects with follicular
    non-Hodgkin s lymphoma in 2008.

Lumiliximab/(ANTI-CD23
    Antibody)   

The CD23 antigen is expressed on the surface of mature B-cells
    and other immune system cells, and is also known as Fc epsilon
    RII. We have completed a Phase 2a study designed to evaluate the
    anti-tumor activity of an anti-CD23 antibody that we developed
    using our
    Primatized   
    antibody technology when administered in combination with FCR, a
    standard chemotherapy, in patients with relapsed chronic
    lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL. In this study, the combination of
    lumiliximab with FCR was well tolerated, with observation of a
    high proportion of clinical complete responses in patients.
    Based on the results of the Phase 2a study, we announced that we
    initiated a Phase
     2 / 3 
    study evaluating lumiximab plus FCR versus FCR alone in relapsed
    or refractory CLL in January 2007, which could lead to approval
    of the antibody if the study meets its endpoints.

Ocrelizumab/(Humanized
    ANTI-CD20 Antibody)   

The second generation anti-CD20 (ocrelizumab) is a humanized
    monoclonal antibody directed against the CD20 surface antigen on
    human B-cells, the same antigen that RITUXAN targets. Anti-CD20
    antibodies work by binding to a particular protein (the CD20
    antigen) on the surface of normal and malignant B-cells. From
    there, they recruit the body s natural defenses to attack
    and kill the marked B-cells. Genentech, with which we
    collaborate on this product candidate, initiated three Phase 3
    studies of ocrelizumab in rheumatoid arthritis in 2007, each
    targeting a separate patient group: those currently not on
    methotrexate, methotrexate inadequate responders and TNF
    inadequate responders. Genentech also initiated a Phase 3 study
    of ocrelizumab in SLE in the fourth quarter of 2007. We are
    currently in arbitration with Genentech as to whether Genentech
    has the right to develop collaboration products, including the
    second-generation humanized anti-CD20 molecule, without our
    approval. See  Item 3   Legal
    Proceedings  for a description of that arbitration.

Lixivaptan   

Lixivaptan is an oral compound for the potential treatment of
    hyponatremia. Cardiokine Biopharma LLC, with which we entered a
    collaboration in 2007, is planning a Phase 3 study of lixivaptan
    in congestive heart failure patients. Lixivaptan is a highly
    potent, non-peptide, selective V2 vasopressin receptor
    antagonist. It antagonizes the action of vasopressin (also known
    as antidiuretic hormone, ADH) on the V2 receptors in the
    kidney-collecting duct, causing water to be excreted from the
    kidney, without affecting sodium or other electrolytes. Based on
    this mechanism of action, lixivaptan shows promise in the
    treatment of disease states associated with water retention and
    electrolyte imbalance, including hyponatremia, which is the most
    common electrolyte disorder in clinical practice. Hyponatremia
    is recognized as an independent contributor to negative patient
    outcomes in many chronic diseases, most notably congestive heart
    failure, as well as cirrhosis and syndrome of inappropriate
    anti-diuretic hormone.

Pursuant to our 2007 collaboration, we made a $50 million
    upfront payment to Cardiokine Biopharma LLC and will make up to
    $170 million in additional milestone payments for
    successful development and global commercialization of
    lixivaptan, as well as royalties on commercial sales. We will be
    responsible for the global commercialization of lixivaptan, and
    Cardiokine Biopharma LLC has an option for limited copromotion
    in the United States.

10

Table of Contents   

Products
    We No Longer Sell  

ZEVALIN  

In December 2007, we sold the U.S. marketing, sales,
    manufacturing and development rights for ZEVALIN to Cell
    Therapeutics, Inc., or CTI, for an upfront purchase price of
    $10.0 million and up to an additional $20.0 million in
    milestone payments. In addition, we also will receive royalty
    payments on future sales of ZEVALIN. As part of the overall
    arrangement, we have entered into a contract with CTI to supply
    ZEVALIN product through 2014 and a related services and security
    agreement under which CTI has agreed to reimburse us for costs
    incurred in an ongoing randomized clinical trial for ZEVALIN
    with respect to aggressive non-Hodgkin s lymphoma. The
    $10.0 million upfront payment will be recognized in our
    consolidated statement of income over the term of the supply
    agreement. The royalty payments and proceeds from the supply
    contract are not expected to be significant.

The ZEVALIN therapeutic regimen is a radioimmunotherapy and part
    of a regimen that is approved for the treatment of patients with
    relapsed or refractory low-grade, or follicular, B-cell NHL,
    including patients with RITUXAN relapsed or refractory NHL. The
    current label also includes transformed B-cell NHL although we
    have asked the FDA to remove that indication as we found the
    post-marketing commitment studies necessary for that indication
    to not be feasible. ZEVALIN is approved in the EU for the
    treatment of adult patients with CD20-positive follicular B-cell
    NHL who are refractory to or have relapsed following RITUXAN
    therapy.

In 2007, sales of ZEVALIN in the U.S. generated revenues of
    $13.9 million, until we sold all U.S. rights in the
    product in December 2007 to CTI, as compared to revenues of
    $16.4 million in 2006. We will continue to sell ZEVALIN to
    Bayer Schering Pharma AG for distribution in the EU, and receive
    royalty revenues from Schering AG on sales of ZEVALIN in the EU.
    Rest of world product sales for ZEVALIN in 2007 and 2006 were
    $3.0 and $1.4 million, respectively.

AMEVIVE  

We sold all rights in AMEVIVE to Astellas Pharma US, Inc., or
    Astellas, in the second quarter of 2006. AMEVIVE is approved in
    the U.S. and other countries for the treatment of adult
    patients with moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis who
    are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. Under the
    terms of the agreement with Astellas, we will continue to
    manufacture AMEVIVE and supply product to Astellas for a period
    of up to 11 years. Under the terms of the supply agreement,
    we charge Astellas fixed amounts based on volume. Such amounts
    will be recognized as corporate partner revenue and are not
    expected to be significant.

11

Table of Contents   

Our Other
    Research and Development Programs  

We intend to continue to commit significant resources to
    research and development opportunities. We intend to focus our
    research and development efforts on finding novel therapeutics
    in areas of high unmet medical need. Our core focus areas are in
    oncology, neurology, immunology and cardiology, but our research
    and development efforts extend to additional therapeutic areas
    such as, for example, hemophilia. Our preclinical and early
    stage product candidates are as follows:

Development and/or 

Marketing 

Therapeutic Area 

Product Candidate 

Indication 

Status 

Collaborators 

Oncology

Volociximab (M200)

Solid Tumors

Phase 2 in ovarian cancer

PDL BioPharma

Phase 1 planned in non small cell lung cancer

CNF2024

Solid Tumors

Early Phase 2 in GI stromal tumors planned; Phase 1 studies in
    other solid tumors ongoing

Natalizumab

Multiple Myeloma

Phase 2 planned

Elan

RAF (BIIB024)

Solid Tumors

Preclinical

Sunesis Pharmaceuticals

CNF3647

Solid Tumors

Preclinical

Anti IGF-1R

Solid Tumors

Phase 1 planned

Anti CRIPTO

Solid Tumors

Preclinical

Neurology

Daclizumab

Multiple Sclerosis

Phase 2

PDL BioPharma

CDP-323

Multiple Sclerosis

Phase 2

UCB

BIIB014

Early-stage Parkinson s Disease

Phase 2a

Vernalis

Late-stage Parkinson s Disease

Phase 2a

Neublastin

Neuropathic Pain

Preclinical

Autoimmune and Inflammatory Diseases

Baminercept-alfa, or LT R-Fc or BG9924

Rheumatoid arthritis

Phase 2b in DMARD IR

Phase 2b in TNF IR

Anti-TWEAK

Rheumatoid arthritis

Preclinical

anti-CD40L Fab

Systemetic Lupus Erythematosus

Preclinical

UCB

Cardiovascular

ADENTRI   ,
    or BG9928

Chronic congestive heart failure

Phase 2 planned

Acute decompensating congestive failure

Phase 3 planned

Aviptadil

Pulmonary arterial hypertension

Phase 2 planned

mondo Biotech

Emerging Therapeutic Areas

Long acting rFactor IX

Hemophilia

Phase 1/2a planned

Biovitrum

Long acting rFactor VIII

Hemophilia

Preclinical

Biovitrum

Oncology  

Volociximab (M200), a chimeric monoclonal antibody directed
    against alpha5 beta1 integrin, shown to inhibit the formation of
    new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth, in collaboration
    with PDL BioPharma, Inc., or PDL. We are conducting Phase 2
    studies of volociximab in ovarian cancer and PDL is conducting a
    Phase 2 study of volociximab in non-small cell lung cancer. We
    and PDL outlicensed ophthalmic rights to volociximab to
    Ophthotech, Inc. in January 2008;

CNF2024, a totally synthetic, orally bioavailable heat shock
    protein 90 inhibitor, acquired with the purchase of Conforma
    Therapeutics Corporation, or Conforma, and a follow-on small
    molecule, CNF3647, directed against the same target but
    formulated for intravenous delivery. We are planning an early
    Phase 2 study of CNF 2024 in gastrointestinal stromal tumors and
    have ongoing Phase 1 studies in other solid tumors;

in collaboration with Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, RAF, or BIIB024,
    a small molecule pan-RAF kinase inhibitor formulated for oral
    delivery and directed against solid tumors;

12

Table of Contents   

Anti IGF-1R, or BIIB022, a human monoclonal antibody blocking
    IGF-1R signaling of Akt and/or RAS/RAF pathway intended for use
    in IGF-1 sensitive solid tumors for inhibition of tumor cell
    survival and/or proliferation;

a maytansinoid-conjugated monoclonal antibody directed against
    CRIPTO, a novel cell surface signaling molecule that is
    over-expressed in solid tumors;

Neurology  

in collaboration with PDL, daclizumab, a humanized monoclonal
    antibody that binds to the IL-2 receptor on activated T cells,
    inhibiting the cascade of pro-inflammatory events contributing
    to organ transplant rejection and autoimmune and related
    diseases. One Phase 2 trial of daclizumab in combination with
    Interferon-  in MS (the CHOICE study) is complete. A second
    Phase 2 trial of daclizumab as monotherapy in MS (the SELECT
    study) is being planned;

in collaboration with UCB S.A., or UCB, CDP323, an orally active
    small molecule alpha-4 integrin inhibitor, which entered a Phase
    2 study in relapsing-remitting MS in June 2007;

in collaboration with Vernalis plc, BIIB014, formerly V2006, the
    lead compound in Vernalis  adenosine A2A receptor
    antagonist program, which targets Parkinson s disease and
    other central nervous system disorders. We are conducting Phase
    2a studies of BIIB014 in early and late-stage Parkinson s
    disease;

Neublastin, a protein therapeutic in-licensed from NS Gene A/S,
    that appears to maintain the viability and physiology of
    peripheral sensory neurons. Neublastin has shown activity in
    animal models of neuropathic pain;

Autoimmune
    and Inflammatory Diseases  

Baminercept-alfa, or LT R-Fc or BG9924, a soluble form of
    the lymphotoxin beta receptor, which targets RA and other
    autoimmune diseases. We are conducting Phase 2b studies of this
    receptor in rheumatoid arthritis;

Anti-TWEAK, a neutralizing monoclonal antibody directed against
    cytokine tumor necrosis factor-like weak inducer of apoptosis,
    or cell death, which we believe will be beneficial in rheumatoid
    arthritis;

In collaboration with UCB, anti-CD40L Fab, a humanized
    anti-CD40L fragment antigen binding portion of an antibody, or
    Fab, which we believe will diminish pathogenic B cell activities
    in lupus;

Cardiovascular  

ADENTRI, or BG9928, an adenosine receptor antagonist for
    congestive heart failure. We are planning a Phase 2 trial in
    chronic congestive heart failure with an oral formulation and a
    Phase 3 trial for acute decompensating congestive heart failure
    with an IV formulation;

Aviptadil, a peptide hormone in-licensed from mondoBIOTECH AG,
    or mondo, for pulmonary arterial hypertension. Mondo is planning
    a Phase 2 study of Aviptadil for us;

Emerging
    Therapeutic Areas  

a long acting rFactor IX fusion protein acquired with the
    purchase of Syntonix Pharmaceuticals Inc., or Syntonix, for
    hemophilia B; and

a long acting rFactor VIII fusion protein acquired with the
    purchase of Syntonix for hemophilia A.

Research
    and Development Costs  

For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, our
    research and development costs were $925.2 million,
    $718.4 million, and $747.7 million, respectively.
    Additionally, in 2007, we incurred $84.2 million in charges
    associated with acquired in-process research and development in
    connection with the acquisition of Syntonix and our
    collaborations with Cardiokine Biopharma LLC and Neurimmune
    SubOne AG.

Principal
    Licensed Products  

As described above, we receive royalties on sales of RITUXAN
    outside the U.S. as part of our collaboration with
    Genentech and royalties on sales of ZEVALIN outside the
    U.S. from Bayer Schering Pharma AG and will

13

Table of Contents   

receive royalties on U.S. sales of ZEVALIN from CTI. We
    also receive royalties from sales by our licensees of a number
    of other products covered under patents that we control. For
    example:

We receive royalties from Schering-Plough Corporation, or
    Schering-Plough, on sales of its alpha interferon products in
    the U.S. under an exclusive license to our alpha interferon
    patents and patent applications. Schering-Plough sells its
    INTRON   
    A (interferon alfa-2b) brand of alpha interferon in the
    U.S. for a number of indications, including the treatment
    of chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C. Schering-Plough
    also sells other alpha interferon products for the treatment of
    hepatitis C, including
    REBETRON   
    Combination Therapy containing INTRON A and
    REBETOL   
    (ribavirin, USP),
    PEG-INTRON   
    (peginterferon alfa-2b), a pegylated form of alpha interferon,
    and PEG-INTRON in combination with REBETOL. For a discussion of
    the length of royalty obligations of Schering-Plough, see
     Patents and Other Proprietary Rights  
    Recombinant Alpha Interferon. 

We hold several patents related to hepatitis B antigens produced
    by genetic engineering techniques. See  Patents and Other
    Proprietary Rights   Recombinant Hepatitis B
    Antigens.  These antigens are used in recombinant hepatitis
    B vaccines and in diagnostic test kits used to detect hepatitis
    B infection. We receive royalties from sales of hepatitis B
    vaccines in several countries, including the U.S., from
    GlaxoSmithKline plc, or GlaxoSmithKline, and Merck and Co. Inc.,
    or Merck. We have also licensed our proprietary hepatitis B
    rights, on an
     antigen-by-antigen 
    and nonexclusive basis, to several diagnostic kit manufacturers,
    including Abbott Laboratories, the major worldwide marketer of
    hepatitis B diagnostic kits. For a discussion of the length of
    the royalty obligation of GlaxoSmithKline and Merck on sales of
    hepatitis B vaccines and the obligation of our other licensees
    on sales of hepatitis B-related diagnostic products, see
     Patents and Other Proprietary Rights  
    Recombinant Hepatitis B Antigens. 

We also receive ongoing royalties on sales of
    ANGIOMAX   
    (bivalirudin) by The Medicines Company, or TMC. TMC sells
    ANGIOMAX in the U.S., Europe, Canada and Latin America for use
    as an anticoagulant in combination with aspirin in patients with
    unstable angina undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary
    angioplasty.

Patents
    and Other Proprietary Rights  

We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and
    various other countries seeking protection of inventions
    originating from our research and development, including a
    number of our processes and products. Patents have been issued
    on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to
    various patents and patent applications under licenses with
    third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us.
    The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded
    to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the
    U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and
    is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the
    patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There
    is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if
    obtained, will afford us substantial protection or commercial
    benefit. Similarly, there is no assurance that our pending
    patent applications or patent applications licensed from third
    parties will ultimately be granted as patents or that those
    patents that have been issued or are issued in the future will
    stand if they are challenged in court.

A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Competitors
    may have filed applications for, or have been issued patents and
    may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may
    relate to products or processes competitive with or similar to
    our products and processes. Moreover, the patent laws of the
    U.S. and foreign countries are distinct and decisions as to
    patenting, validity of patents and infringement of patents may
    be resolved differently in different countries. In general, we
    try to obtain licenses to third party patents, which we deem
    necessary or desirable for the manufacture, use and sale of our
    products. We are currently unable to assess the extent to which
    we may wish to or may be required to acquire rights under such
    patents and the availability and cost of acquiring such rights,
    or whether a license to such patents will be available on
    acceptable terms or at all. There may be patents in the
    U.S. or in foreign countries or patents issued in the
    future that are unavailable to license on acceptable terms. Our
    inability to obtain such licenses may hinder our ability to
    market our products.

We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and
    in other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to
    our business. Some of those patents and patent applications
    claim only specific products

14

Table of Contents   

or methods of making such products, while others claim more
    general processes or techniques useful or now used in the
    biotechnology industry. There is considerable uncertainty within
    the biotechnology industry about the validity, scope and
    enforceability of many issued patents in the U.S. and
    elsewhere in the world, and, to date, there is no consistent
    policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology
    patents. We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and
    validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the
    future or which patents might be asserted to be infringed by the
    manufacture, use and sale of our products.

There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. We expect that litigation
    may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and
    scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Conversely,
    litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the
    validity, scope
     and/or 
    noninfringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Intellectual property litigation could therefore
    create business uncertainty and consume substantial financial
    and human resources. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation
    could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or
    other proprietary rights, or, conversely, hinder our ability to
    market our products. See  Item 3   Legal
    Proceedings  for a description of our patent litigation.

Our trademarks RITUXAN and AVONEX are important to us and are
    generally covered by trademark applications or registrations
    owned or controlled by us in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
    Office and in other countries. We employ other trademarks in the
    conduct of our business under license by third parties, for
    example, we utilize the mark TYSABRI under license from Elan.

Recombinant
    Beta Interferon   

Third parties have pending patent applications or issued patents
    in the U.S., Europe and other countries with claims to key
    intermediates in the production of beta interferon. These are
    known as the Taniguchi patents. Third parties also have pending
    patent applications or issued patents with claims to beta
    interferon itself. These are known as the Roche patents and the
    Rentschler patents, respectively. We have obtained non-exclusive
    rights in various countries of the world, including the U.S.,
    Japan and Europe, to manufacture, use and sell AVONEX, our brand
    of recombinant beta interferon, under the Taniguchi, Roche and
    Rentschler issued patents. The last of the Taniguchi patents
    expire in the U.S. in May 2013 and have expired already in
    other countries of the world. The Roche patents expire in the
    U.S. in May 2008 and also have generally expired elsewhere
    in the world. The Rentschler EU patent expires in July 2012.

RITUXAN
    and Anti-CD20 Antibodies   

We have several issued U.S. patents and U.S. patent
    applications, and numerous corresponding foreign counterparts
    directed to anti-CD20 antibody technology, including RITUXAN. We
    have also been granted patents covering RITUXAN by the European
    and Japanese Patent Offices. In the U.S. our principal
    patents covering the drugs or their uses expire between 2015 and
    2018. With regard to the rest of the world, our principal
    patents covering the drug products expire in 2013 subject to
    potential patent term extensions in countries where such
    extensions are available. Our recently-granted patent in certain
    European countries claiming the treatment with anti-CD20
    antibodies of certain auto-immune indications, including
    rheumatoid arthritis, has been opposed by numerous third
    parties. This opposition proceeding is likely to be protracted
    and its outcome is uncertain at this time.

In addition Genentech, our collaborative partner for RITUXAN,
    has secured an exclusive license to five U.S. patents and
    counterpart U.S. and foreign patent applications assigned
    to Xoma Corporation that relate to chimeric antibodies against
    the CD20 antigen. These patents expire between 2007 and 2014.
    Genentech has granted us a non-exclusive sublicense to make,
    have made, use and sell RITUXAN under these patents and patent
    applications. We, along with Genentech, share the cost of any
    royalties due to Xoma in the Genentech/Biogen Idec copromotion
    territory on sales of RITUXAN. In addition, we and our
    collaborator, Genentech, have filed numerous patent applications
    directed to anti-CD20 antibodies and their uses to treat various
    diseases. These pending patent applications have the potential
    of issuing as patents in the U.S. and abroad covering
    anti-CD20 antibody molecules for periods beyond that stated
    above for RITUXAN.

Recombinant
    Alpha Interferon   

In 1979, we granted an exclusive worldwide license to
    Schering-Plough under our alpha interferon patents. Most of our
    alpha interferon patents have since expired, including
    expiration of patents in the U.S., Japan and all

15

Table of Contents   

countries of Europe. Schering-Plough pays us royalty payments on
    U.S. sales of alpha interferon products under an
    interference settlement entered into in 1998. Under the terms of
    the interference settlement, Schering-Plough agreed to pay us
    royalties under certain patents to be issued to Roche and
    Genentech in consideration of our assignment to Schering-Plough
    of the alpha interferon patent application that had been the
    subject of a settled interference with respect to a
    Roche/Genentech patent. Schering-Plough entered into an
    agreement with Roche as part of settlement of the interference.
    The first of the Roche/Genentech patents was issued on
    November 19, 2002 and has a seventeen-year term. In 2007,
    we received notice that our pending patent application in Canada
    was allowable and paid the issue fee. We expect the patent to
    issue in 2008. Upon issuance of the patent, Schering-Plough will
    be obligated to pay us royalties on sales of alpha interferon
    products in Canada until expiration of the patent in 2025.

Recombinant
    Hepatitis B Antigens   

We have obtained numerous patents in countries around the world,
    including in the U.S. and in European countries, covering
    the recombinant production of hepatitis B surface, core and
     e  antigens. We have licensed our recombinant
    hepatitis B antigen patent rights to manufacturers and marketers
    of hepatitis B vaccines and diagnostic test kits, and receive
    royalties on sales of the vaccines and test kits by our
    licensees. See  Principal Licensed Products.  The
    obligation of GlaxoSmithKline and Merck to pay royalties on
    sales of hepatitis B vaccines and the obligation of our other
    licensees under our hepatitis B patents to pay royalties on
    sales of diagnostic products will terminate upon expiration of
    our hepatitis B patents in each licensed country. Following the
    conclusion of a successful interference proceeding in the U.S.,
    we were granted patents in the U.S. expiring in 2018. These
    patents claim hepatitis B virus polypeptides and vaccines and
    diagnostics containing such polypeptides. Our European hepatitis
    B patents expired at the end of 1999 and have also since expired
    in those countries in which we have obtained supplementary
    protection certificates. See  Item 3   Legal
    Proceedings  for a description of our litigation with
    Classen Immunotherapies, Inc.

TYSABRI   

We are developing TYSABRI in collaboration with Elan. TYSABRI is
    presently claimed in a number of pending patent applications and
    issued patents held by both companies in the U.S. and
    abroad. These patent applications and patents cover the protein,
    DNA encoding the protein, manufacturing methods and
    pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of
    treatment using the product. In the U.S. the principal
    patents covering the product and methods of manufacturing the
    product generally expire between 2014 and 2020, subject to any
    available patent term extensions. In the remainder of the world
    patents on the product and methods of manufacturing the product
    generally expire between 2014 and 2016, subject to any
    supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained. Both
    companies have method of treatment patents for a variety of
    indications including the treatment of MS and Crohn s
    disease and treatments of inflammation. These patents expire in
    the U.S. generally between 2012 and 2020 and outside the
    U.S. generally between 2012 and 2016, subject to any
    available patent term extensions
     and/or 
    supplemental protection certificates extending such terms.

Trade
    Secrets and Confidential Know-How   

We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, and we cannot assure
    that others will not independently develop substantially
    equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise
    gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or
    that we can meaningfully protect such rights. We require our
    employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators,
    scientists whose research we sponsor and other advisers to
    execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of
    employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements
    provide that all confidential information developed or made
    known to the individual during the course of the
    individual s relationship with us is to be kept
    confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in
    specific circumstances. In the case of our employees, the
    agreement provides that all inventions conceived by such
    employees shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may
    not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our
    trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of
    such information.

Sales,
    Marketing and Distribution  

Our sales and marketing efforts are generally focused on
    specialist physicians in private practice or at major medical
    centers. We utilize common pharmaceutical company practices to
    market our products and to educate

16

Table of Contents   

physicians, including sales representatives calling on
    individual physicians, advertisements, professional symposia,
    direct mail, selling initiatives, public relations and other
    methods. We provide customer service and other related programs
    for our products, such as disease and product-specific websites,
    insurance research services and order, delivery and fulfillment
    services. We have also established programs in the U.S., which
    provide qualified uninsured or underinsured patients with
    commercial products at no charge. Specifics concerning the
    sales, marketing and distribution of each of our commercialized
    products are as follows:

AVONEX   

We continue to focus our marketing and sales activities on
    maximizing the potential of AVONEX in the U.S. and the EU
    in the face of increased competition. In the U.S., Canada,
    Brazil, Australia, Japan and most of the major countries of the
    EU, we use our own sales forces and marketing groups to market
    and sell AVONEX. In these countries, we distribute AVONEX
    principally through wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical
    products, mail order specialty distributors or shipping service
    providers. In countries outside the U.S., Canada, Brazil,
    Australia and the major countries of the EU, we sell AVONEX to
    distribution partners who are then responsible for most
    marketing and distribution activities.

TYSABRI   

The party principally responsible for marketing TYSABRI depends
    upon the indication. For multiple sclerosis, we have the lead
    and we use our own sales force and marketing group to market
    TYSABRI in the U.S. and Europe. Elan has the lead in
    Crohn s disease and uses their sales force and marketing
    group to market TYSABRI in the U.S. Elan distributes
    TYSABRI in the U.S. and we distribute TYSABRI in Europe.

RITUXAN   

We market and sell RITUXAN in the U.S. in collaboration
    with Genentech. We, along with Genentech, have sales and
    marketing staffs dedicated to RITUXAN. Sales efforts for RITUXAN
    as a treatment for B-cell NHLs are focused on hematologists and
    medical oncologists in private practice, at community hospitals
    and at major medical centers in the U.S. Sales efforts for
    RITUXAN as a treatment for RA are focused on rheumatologists in
    private practice, at community hospitals and at major medical
    centers in the U.S.

Most B-cell NHLs are treated today in community-based group
    oncology practices. RITUXAN fits well into the community
    practice, as generally no special equipment, training or
    licensing is required for its administration or for management
    of treatment-related side effects.

RITUXAN is generally sold to wholesalers and specialty
    distributors and directly to hospital pharmacies. Genentech
    provides marketing support services for RITUXAN including
    customer service, order entry, shipping, billing, insurance
    verification assistance, managed care sales support, medical
    information and sales training. Under our agreement with
    Genentech, all U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by
    Genentech and we record our share of the pretax copromotion
    profits on a quarterly basis.

FUMADERM   

FUMADERM has been approved in Germany since 1994 for the
    treatment of severe psoriasis. FUMADERM is produced by
    Fumapharm, which we acquired in June 2006. In December 2006, we
    acquired the right to distribute FUMADERM in Germany from
    Fumedica effective May 1, 2007. Fumedica continued to
    distribute the product until that time. Effective May 1,
    2007, we began to promote FUMADERM in Germany through Almirall,
    a third party service provider.

ZEVALIN   

In December 2007, we sold the U.S. marketing, sales
    manufacturing and development rights to CTI. Under the terms of
    the sale, we have entered a contract with CTI to supply ZEVALIN
    product through 2014. In the EU, we sell ZEVALIN to Bayer
    Schering Pharma AG, our exclusive licensee for ZEVALIN outside
    the U.S.

17

Table of Contents   

AMEVIVE   

We sold the rights in AMEVIVE to Astellas Pharma US, Inc. in the
    second quarter of 2006. Under the terms of the sale agreement
    with Astellas, we will continue to manufacture AMEVIVE and
    supply product to Astellas for a period of up to 11 years.

Competition  

Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
    is intense and comes from many and varied sources. We do not
    believe that any of the industry leaders can be considered
    dominant in view of the rapid technological change in the
    industry. We experience significant competition from specialized
    biotechnology firms in the U.S., the EU and elsewhere and from
    many large pharmaceutical, chemical and other companies. Certain
    of these companies have substantially greater financial,
    marketing, research and development and human resources than we
    do. Most large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have
    considerable experience in undertaking clinical trials and in
    obtaining regulatory approval to market pharmaceutical products.

We believe that competition and leadership in the industry will
    be based on managerial and technological superiority and
    establishing proprietary positions through research and
    development. Leadership in the industry may also be influenced
    significantly by patents and other forms of protection of
    proprietary information. A key aspect of such competition is
    recruiting and retaining qualified scientists and technicians.
    We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled
    and experienced scientific personnel. The achievement of a
    leadership position also depends largely upon our ability to
    identify and exploit commercially the products resulting from
    research and the availability of adequate financial resources to
    fund facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing,
    manufacturing and marketing.

Competition among products approved for sale may be based, among
    other things, on patent position, product efficacy, safety,
    convenience, reliability, availability and price. Many of our
    competitors are working to develop products similar to those
    that we are developing. The timing of the entry of a new
    pharmaceutical product into the market can be an important
    factor in determining the product s eventual success and
    profitability. Early entry may have important advantages in
    gaining product acceptance and market share. Moreover, under the
    Orphan Drug Act, the FDA is prevented for a period of seven
    years from approving more than one application for the
     same  product for the same indication in certain
    diseases with limited patient populations, unless a later
    product is considered clinically superior. The EU has similar
    laws and other jurisdictions have or are considering such laws.
    Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop
    products, complete the testing and approval process and supply
    commercial quantities of the product to the market will have an
    important impact on our competitive position.

After a patent expiry for a product, an abbreviated process
    exists for approval of small molecule drugs in the
    U.S. that are comparable to existing products, also known
    as generics. In Europe, the EMEA has issued guidelines for
    approval, and the first biosimilars, or follow-on large molecule
    drugs, have been approved. It is possible that legislative and
    regulatory bodies in the U.S. may provide a similar
    abbreviated process for comparable biologic products. See
     Regulatory   Regulation of
    Pharmaceuticals   Biosimilars. 

AVONEX
    AND TYSABRI   

AVONEX, which generated $1.9 billion of worldwide revenues
    in 2007, and TYSABRI, which generated $230 million of
    worldwide revenues for us in 2007, both compete primarily with
    three other products:

REBIF ( interferon-beta-1a ), which is copromoted by EMD
    Serono (a subsidiary of Merck Serono) and Pfizer in the
    U.S. and sold by Merck Serono in Europe. REBIF generated
    worldwide revenues of approximately $1.5 billion in 2006.

BETASERON ( interferon-beta-1b ), sold by Bayer Healthcare
    Pharmaceuticals (the U.S. pharmaceuticals affiliate of
    Bayer Schering Pharma AG) in the U.S. and sold under the
    name
    BETAFERON   
    by Bayer Schering Pharma AG in the EU. BETASERON and BETAFERON
    together generated worldwide revenues of approximately
    $1.2 billion in 2006.

18

Table of Contents   

COPAXONE ( glatiramer acetate ), sold by Teva Neuroscience,
    Inc., or Teva, in the U.S. and copromoted by Teva and
    Sanofi-Aventis in Europe. COPAXONE generated worldwide revenues
    of approximately $1.4 billion in 2006.

Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop
    products to treat MS that may in the future compete with AVONEX
    and TYSABRI. Some of our current competitors are also working to
    develop alternative formulations for delivery of their products,
    which may in the future compete with AVONEX and TYSABRI.

AVONEX and TYSABRI also face competition from off-label uses of
    drugs approved for other indications.

RITUXAN  B-CELL
    NHLs   

A number of other companies, including us, are working to
    develop products to treat B-cell NHLs and other forms of
    non-Hodgkin s lymphoma that may ultimately compete with
    RITUXAN. Other potential competitors include
    Campath   
    (Berlex, Inc.), which is indicated for B-cell chronic
    lymphocytic leukemia (an unapproved use of RITUXAN),
    Velcade   
    (Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) which is indicated for
    multiple myeloma (an unapproved use of RITUXAN),
    Trianda   
    (Cephalon), and HuMax-CD20 (GenMab), which is in late-stage
    development for refractory CLL and NHL. In addition to the
    foregoing products, we are aware of other anti-CD20 molecules in
    development that, if successfully developed and registered, may
    compete with RITUXAN.

RITUXAN
    IN RA   

RITUXAN, in combination with methotrexate, is approved for
    reducing signs and symptoms and to slow the progression of
    structural damage in adult patients with moderately-to-severely
    active RA who have had an inadequate response to one or more TNF
    antagonist therapies. RITUXAN will compete with several
    different types of therapies in the RA market, including:

traditional therapies for RA, including disease-modifying
    anti-rheumatic drugs, such as steroids, methotrexate and
    cyclosporine, and pain relievers such as acetaminophen;

anti-TNF therapies, such as
    REMICADE   
    (infliximab), a drug sold worldwide by Centocor, Inc., a
    subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson,
    HUMIRA   
    (adalimumab), a drug sold by Abbott Laboratories, and
    ENBREL   
    (etanercept), a drug sold by Amgen, Inc. and Wyeth
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;

ORENCIA   
    (abatacept), a drug developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company,
    which was approved by the FDA to treat moderate-to-severe RA in
    December 2005;

drugs in late-stage development for RA; and

drugs approved for other indications that are used to treat RA.

In addition, a number of other companies, including us, are
    working to develop products to treat RA that may ultimately
    compete with RITUXAN in the RA marketplace.

Regulatory  

Our current and contemplated activities and the products and
    processes that will result from such activities are subject to
    substantial government regulation.

Regulation
    of Pharmaceuticals   

Before new pharmaceutical products may be sold in the
    U.S. and other countries, clinical trials of the products
    must be conducted and the results submitted to appropriate
    regulatory agencies for approval. Clinical trial programs must
    establish efficacy, determine an appropriate dose and regimen,
    and define the conditions for safe use, a high-risk process that
    requires stepwise clinical studies in which the candidate
    product must successfully meet predetermined endpoints. The
    results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a product are
    then submitted to the FDA in the form of a Biologics License
    Application, or BLA, or a New Drug Application, or NDA. In
    response to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may grant marketing approval,
    request additional information or deny the application if it
    determines the application does not provide an adequate basis
    for approval. Similar submissions are required by

19

Table of Contents   

authorities in other jurisdictions who independently assess the
    product and may reach the same or different conclusions. The
    receipt of regulatory approval often takes a number of years,
    involving the expenditure of substantial resources and depends
    on a number of factors, including the severity of the disease in
    question, the availability of alternative treatments and the
    risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. On occasion,
    regulatory authorities may require larger or additional studies,
    leading to unanticipated delay or expense. Even after initial
    FDA approval or approvals from other regulatory agencies have
    been obtained, further clinical trials may be required to
    provide additional data on safety and effectiveness and are
    required to gain clearance for the use of a product as a
    treatment for indications other than those initially approved.
    The FDA may grant  accelerated approval  status to
    products that treat serious or life-threatening illnesses and
    that provide meaningful therapeutic benefits to patients over
    existing treatments, but accelerated approval status does not
    ensure that FDA will ultimately approve the product. Under this
    pathway, the FDA may approve a product based on surrogate
    endpoints, or clinical endpoints other than survival or
    irreversible morbidity, or when the product is shown to be
    effective but can be safely used only if access to or
    distribution of the product is restricted. When approval is
    based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints other than
    survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required to conduct
    additional clinical studies to verify and describe clinical
    benefit. When accelerated approval requires restricted use or
    distribution, the sponsor may be required to establish rigorous
    systems to assure use of the product under safe conditions.
    These systems are usually referred to as Risk Minimization
    Action Plans, or RiskMAPs, or Risk Evaluation and Mitigation
    Strategies, or REMS. In addition, for all products approved
    under accelerated approval, sponsors must submit all copies of
    its promotional materials, including advertisements, to the FDA
    at least thirty days prior to their initial dissemination. The
    FDA may also withdraw approval under accelerated approval after
    a hearing if, for instance, post-marketing studies fail to
    verify any clinical benefit or it becomes clear that
    restrictions on the distribution of the product are inadequate
    to ensure its safe use. The BLA for TYSABRI in MS was initially
    approved under the accelerated approval pathway based on
    surrogate endpoints. A stringent restricted distribution program
    was also imposed.

The supplemental BLA for TYSABRI for second-line treatment of
    Crohn s disease was approved by FDA on January 14,
    2008. This product will be subject to the same stringent
    distribution restrictions as TYSABRI for MS.

We cannot be certain that the FDA will approve any products for
    the proposed indications whether under accelerated approval or
    another pathway. If the FDA approves products or new
    indications, the agency may require us to conduct additional
    post-marketing studies. If we fail to conduct the required
    studies or otherwise fail to comply with the conditions of
    accelerated approval, the FDA may take action to seek to
    withdraw that approval. Legislation has recently been passed in
    the U.S. to also provide the FDA with additional powers of
    sanction regarding non-completion of or non-compliance with
    certain post-marketing commitments, including RiskMAPs/REMS. In
    Europe, the EMEA has new powers of sanction for non-completion
    of post-marketing commitments. These range from a fine of 10% of
    global revenue to removal of the product from the market.

Regulatory authorities track information on side effects and
    adverse events reported during clinical studies and after
    marketing approval. Non-compliance with FDA safety reporting
    requirements may result in FDA regulatory action that may
    include civil action or criminal penalties. Side effects or
    adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can
    delay, impede, or prevent marketing approval. Similarly, adverse
    events that are reported after marketing approval can result in
    additional limitations being placed on the product s use
    and, potentially, withdrawal or suspension of the product from
    the market. For example, in February 2005, in consultation with
    the FDA, we and Elan voluntarily suspended the marketing and
    commercial distribution of TYSABRI, and informed physicians that
    they should suspend dosing of TYSABRI until further
    notification. In addition, we suspended dosing in clinical
    studies of TYSABRI in MS, Crohn s disease and RA. These
    decisions were based on reports of two cases of PML, a rare and
    frequently fatal, demyelinating disease of the central nervous
    system, that occurred in patients treated with TYSABRI in
    clinical studies. See  Our Products and Late Stage Product
    Candidates   Approved Indications and Ongoing
    Development   TYSABRI.  Any adverse event, either
    before or after marketing approval, could result in product
    liability claims against us. See the sections of
     Item 1A   Risk Factors  entitled
     Our near terms success depends on the market acceptance
    and successful sales growth of TYSABRI  and  Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation. 

Furthermore, recently enacted legislation provides the FDA with
    expanded authority over drug products after approval. This
    legislation enhances the FDA s authority with respect to
    post-marketing safety surveillance,

20

Table of Contents   

including, among other things, the authority to require
    additional post-approval studies or clinical trials and mandate
    label changes as a result of safety findings. These requirements
    may affect our ability to maintain marketing approval of our
    products or require us to make significant expenditures to
    obtain or maintain such approvals.

If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such
    as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing
    changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain
    ingredients or components, we will need review and approval of
    regulatory authorities, including FDA and EMEA, before the
    changes can be implemented.

Orphan Drug Act.   Under the U.S. Orphan
    Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs
    intended to treat a  rare disease or condition,  which
    generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than
    200,000 individuals in the U.S. Orphan drug designation
    must be requested before submitting a BLA or NDA. After the FDA
    grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the
    therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are publicly
    disclosed by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey
    any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory
    review and approval process. If a product which has an orphan
    drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval
    for the indication for which it has such designation, the
    product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not
    approve any other applications to market the same drug for the
    same indication for a period of seven years following marketing
    approval, except in certain very limited circumstances, such as
    if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the
    orphan product.

Biosimilars.   Most of our marketed products,
    including AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, are licensed under the
    Public Health Service Act as biological products. Unlike small
    molecule drugs, which are subject to the generic drug provisions
    (Hatch-Waxman Act) of the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
    Act, as described below, there currently is no process in the
    U.S. for the submission or approval of biological products
    based upon abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to
    another approved product. There is public dialogue at FDA and in
    the Congress, however, regarding the scientific and statutory
    basis upon which such products, known as biosimilars or
    follow-on biologics, could be approved and marketed in the
    U.S. We cannot be certain when, or if, Congress will create
    a statutory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. We cannot
    predict what impact, if any, the approval of biosimilars would
    have on the sales of our products.

In Europe, however, the EMEA has issued guidelines for approval
    of biological products through an abbreviated pathway, and the
    first biosimilars have been approved. If a biosimilar version of
    one of our products were approved in Europe, it could have a
    negative effect on sales of that product.

Small molecule generics.   We are developing
    small molecule products. If development is successful, these
    products may be approved as drugs under the U.S. Food,
    Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Under the Drug Price Competition and
    Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the
    Hatch-Waxman Act, Congress created two pathways for FDA review
    and approval of  generic  versions of pioneer small
    molecule drug products. The first is the abbreviated new drug
    application, or ANDA, a type of application in which approval is
    based on a showing of  sameness  to an already
    approved drug product. An ANDA need not contain full reports of
    safety and effectiveness, but rather must demonstrate that a
    proposed product is  the same as  a reference
    brand-name product. An ANDA applicant is also required to
    demonstrate the  bioequivalence  of its product to the
    reference product. The second pathway is a 505(b)(2)
    application, or an NDA in which one or more of the
    investigations relied upon by the applicant for approval was not
    conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant
    has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by
    or for whom the investigation was conducted. A 505(b)(2)
    applicant must provide the FDA with any additional clinical data
    necessary to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the
    product with the proposed change(s).

The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides for the restoration of a
    portion of the patent term lost during small molecule product
    development. In addition, the statute establishes a complex set
    of processes for notifying sponsors of pioneer products of ANDA
    and 505(b)(2) applications that may infringe patents and to
    permit sponsors of pioneer drugs an opportunity to pursue patent
    litigation prior to FDA approval of the generic product. The
    Hatch-Waxman Act also awards non-patent marketing exclusivities
    to qualifying pioneer drug products. For example, the first
    applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a product that contains
    an active ingredient not found in any other approved product is
    awarded five years of  new chemical entity  marketing
    exclusivity. Where this exclusivity is awarded, the FDA is
    prohibited , with some exception, from accepting any ANDAs or
    505(b)(2) applications during

21

Table of Contents   

the five-year period. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three
    years of marketing exclusivity for the approval of NDAs,
    505(b)(2) applications, and supplements, where those
    applications contain the results of new clinical investigations
    (other than bioavailability studies) essential to the FDA s
    approval of the applications. Three-year exclusivity prohibits
    the final FDA approval of ANDAs or 505(b)(2) applications for
    products with the specific changes associated with those
    clinical investigations. It does not necessarily prohibit the
    FDA from approving an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application for a
    product containing the same active ingredient. For example, if
    clinical investigations supported a new indication, three-year
    exclusivity would not block FDA approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2)
    application for a product where the new indication has been
    carved out or omitted from the label.

Good manufacturing practices.   The FDA, the
    EMEA and other regulatory agencies regulate and inspect
    equipment, facilities, and processes used in the manufacturing
    of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to approving a
    product. If, after receiving clearance from regulatory agencies,
    a company makes a material change in manufacturing equipment,
    location, or process, additional regulatory review and approval
    may be required. We also must adhere to current Good
    Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and product-specific
    regulations enforced by the FDA following product approval. The
    FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory agencies also conduct
    regular, periodic visits to re-inspect equipment, facilities,
    and processes following the initial approval of a product. If,
    as a result of these inspections, it is determined that our
    equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with
    applicable regulations and conditions of product approval,
    regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or administrative
    sanctions
     and/or 
    remedies against us, including the suspension of our
    manufacturing operations.

In addition, the FDA regulates all advertising and promotion
    activities for products under its jurisdiction both prior to and
    after approval. A company can make only those claims relating to
    safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. Physicians may
    prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not
    described in the drug s labeling and that differ from those
    tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are
    common across medical specialties, and often reflect a
    physician s belief that the off-label use is the best
    treatment for the patients. The FDA does not regulate the
    behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments, but the
    FDA regulations do impose stringent restrictions on
    manufacturers  communications regarding off-label uses.
    Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a
    company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA,
    corrective advertising, and the full range of civil and criminal
    penalties available to the FDA.

Regulation Outside
    the U.S.   

In the EU, Canada, and Australia, regulatory requirements and
    approval processes are similar in principle to those in the
    U.S. depending on the type of drug for which approval is
    sought. There are currently three potential tracks for marketing
    approval in EU countries: mutual recognition, decentralized
    procedures, and centralized procedures. These review mechanisms
    may ultimately lead to approval in all EU countries, but each
    method grants all participating countries some decision-making
    authority in product approval.

Sales,
    Marketing and Product Pricing   

In the U.S., the federal government regularly considers
    reforming health care coverage and costs. For example, reforms
    to Medicare have reduced the reimbursement rates for many of our
    products. Effective January 1, 2005, Medicare pays
    physicians and suppliers that furnish our products under a
    payment methodology using average sales price, or ASP,
    information. Manufacturers, including us, are required to
    provide ASP information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
    Services on a quarterly basis. The manufacturer submitted
    information is used to compute Medicare payment rates, which are
    set at ASP plus 6 percent, updated quarterly. There is a
    mechanism for comparison of such payment rates to widely
    available market prices, which could cause further decreases in
    Medicare payment rates, although this mechanism has yet to be
    utilized. Effective January 1, 2006, Medicare began to use
    the same ASP plus 6 percent payment methodology to
    determine Medicare rates paid for products furnished by hospital
    outpatient departments. As of January 1, 2008, the
    reimbursement rate in the hospital outpatient setting will be
    ASP plus 5 percent. If a manufacturer is found to have made
    a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the statute
    provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each
    misrepresentation and for each day in which the
    misrepresentation was applied.

22

Table of Contents   

Another payment reform is the addition of an expanded
    prescription drug benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries known
    as Medicare Part D. This is a voluntary benefit that is
    being implemented through private plans under contractual
    arrangements with the federal government. Like pharmaceutical
    coverage through private health insurance, Part D plans
    establish formularies that govern the drugs and biologicals that
    will be offered and the out- of-pocket obligations for such
    products. In addition, plans are expected to negotiate discounts
    from drug manufacturers and pass on some of those savings to
    Medicare beneficiaries.

Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or
    future legislation may have a significant effect on our
    business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products may
    depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the
    costs of our products and related treatments will be available
    in the U.S. and worldwide from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists as to the
    reimbursement status of newly approved health care products by
    third party payors.

We also participate in the Medicaid rebate program established
    by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and under
    multiple subsequent amendments of that law. Sections 6001,
    6002, and 6003 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA,
    made significant changes to the Medicaid prescription drug
    provisions of the Social Security Act. These changes include,
    but are not limited to, revising the definition of average
    manufacturer price, or AMP, establishing an obligation to report
    AMP on a monthly basis, in addition to a quarterly basis,
    establishing a new formula for calculating Federal upper limits,
    or FULs, requiring rebates for certain physician-administered
    drugs, and clarifying rebate liability for authorized generic
    drugs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for
    each unit of product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the
    rebate for each product is set by law as the larger of, 15.1% of
    AMP or the difference between AMP and the best price available
    from us to any commercial or non-governmental customer. The
    rebate amount must be adjusted upward where the AMP for a
    product s first full quarter of sales, when adjusted for
    increases in the CPI-U, or Consumer Price Index  
    Urban, exceeds the AMP for the current quarter with the upward
    adjustment equal to the excess amount. The rebate amount is
    required to be recomputed each quarter based on our report of
    current AMP and best price for each of our products to the
    Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The terms of our
    participation in the program imposes a requirement for us to
    report revisions to AMP or best price within a period not to
    exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data was
    originally due. Any such revisions could have the impact of
    increasing or decreasing our rebate liability for prior
    quarters, depending on the direction of the revision. In
    addition, if we were found to have knowingly submitted false
    information to the government, the statute provides for civil
    monetary penalties in the amount not to exceed $100,000 per item
    of false information in addition to other penalties available to
    the government.

The availability of federal funds to pay for our products under
    the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we
    extend discounts under the 340B/PHS drug pricing program. The
    340B/PHS drug pricing program extends discounts to a variety of
    community health clinics and other entities that receive health
    services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a
    disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries.

We also make our products available for purchase by authorized
    users of the Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, of the General
    Services Administration pursuant to our FSS contract with the
    Department of Veterans Affairs. Under the Veterans Health Care
    Act of 1992, or the VHC Act, we are required to offer deeply
    discounted FSS contract pricing to four Federal
    agencies   the Department of Veterans Affairs, the
    Department of Defense, the Coast Guard and the Public Health
    Service (including the Indian Health Service)   for
    federal funding to be made available for reimbursement of any of
    our products under the Medicaid program and for our products to
    be eligible to be purchased by those four Federal agencies and
    certain Federal grantees. FSS pricing to those four Federal
    agencies must be equal to or less than the  Federal Ceiling
    Price,  which is, at a minimum, 24% off the Non-Federal
    Average Manufacturer Price, or  Non-FAMP , for the
    prior fiscal year. In addition, if we are found to have
    knowingly submitted false information to the government, the VHC
    provides for civil monetary penalties of not to exceed $100,000
    per false item of information in addition to other penalties
    available to the government.

We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining
    to health care  fraud and abuse,  including
    anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws
    make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit,
    offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to
    induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or
    prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the
    statutory provisions and the absence of

23

Table of Contents   

guidance in the form of regulations and very few court decisions
    addressing industry practices, it is possible that our practices
    might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False
    claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly
    presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third
    party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for
    reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent,
    claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims
    for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities
    relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be
    subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and
    abuse laws may be punishable by criminal
     and/or  civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well
    as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care
    programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government
    were to allege or convict us of violating these laws, our
    business could be harmed. In addition, there is an ability for
    private individuals to bring similar actions. See the section of
     Item 1A   Risk Factors  entitled
     If we fail to comply with the extensive legal and
    regulatory requirements affecting the healthcare industry, we
    could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of
    business.  For a description of litigation in this area in
    which we are currently involved, see
     Item 3   Legal Proceedings. 

Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons
    discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the
    increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement
    authorities. Further, there are an increasing number of state
    laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on
    pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
    ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws.
    Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our
    reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of
    the pertinent state authorities.

Other
    Regulations   

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.   We are also
    subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which
    prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to
    pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any
    foreign government official, government staff member, political
    party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain
    business or to otherwise influence a person working in an
    official capacity.

NIH Guidelines.   We conduct relevant research
    at all of our research facilities in the U.S. in compliance
    with the current U.S. National Institutes of Health
    Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules, or
    the NIH Guidelines, and all other applicable federal and state
    regulations. By local ordinance, we are required to, among other
    things, comply with the NIH Guidelines in relation to our
    facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and San Diego,
    California, and are required to operate pursuant to certain
    permits.

Other Laws.   Our present and future business
    has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws
    and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations
    relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the
    experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage,
    movement, import and export and use and disposal of hazardous or
    potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive
    compounds and infectious disease agents, used in connection with
    our research work are or may be applicable to our activities.
    Certain agreements entered into by us involving exclusive
    license rights may be subject to national or supranational
    antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which also cannot be
    predicted. The extent of government regulation, which might
    result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot
    accurately be predicted.

Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials  

We currently produce all of our bulk AVONEX, as well as AMEVIVE
    on a contract basis for Astellas, at our manufacturing
    facilities located in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and
    Cambridge, Massachusetts. We currently produce TYSABRI at our
    Research Triangle Park facility. We supply the commercial
    requirements of the antibody for ZEVALIN on a contract basis for
    Cell Therapeutics, Inc. We have moved the manufacturing of
    ZEVALIN to our manufacturing facilities in Cambridge,
    Massachusetts and are awaiting FDA approval of the production of
    the antibody at that facility. Genentech is responsible for all
    worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk RITUXAN and has
    sourced the manufacturing of certain bulk RITUXAN requirements
    to an independent third party. We manufacture clinical products
    in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and Cambridge,
    Massachusetts. We use a third party to manufacture the active
    pharmaceutical ingredient of FUMADERM and another third party to
    further process that to produce the FUMADERM pill.

24

Table of Contents   

We are constructing a large-scale biologic manufacturing
    facility in Hillerod, Denmark to be used to manufacture TYSABRI
    and other products in our pipeline. The first phase is complete
    and included the construction of an administrative building, a
    laboratory, a labeling and packaging facility and a facility to
    provide utilities to the Hillerod campus. The administrative
    building was in use in 2006, and the label and packaging
    facility and lab facility were placed into service in the first
    quarter of 2007. In addition, a large-scale manufacturing
    facility was partially constructed during this phase and major
    equipment was installed. The utilities facility has been in
    partial use since the first quarter of 2007. The second phase of
    the project, which we commenced in January 2007, involves the
    completion and fit out of the large-scale manufacturing facility
    and construction of a warehouse. The utilities facility is
    expected to be in full use upon completion of the second phase.
    The large scale manufacturing facility is expected to be ready
    for commercial production in 2009. See
     Item 1A   Risk Factors  entitled
     We have made a significant investment in constructing a
    manufacturing facility the success of which depends upon the
    completion and licensing of the facility and continued demand
    for our products. 

We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw materials and
    supplies required for the production of AVONEX, TYSABRI, ZEVALIN
    and AMEVIVE are available from various suppliers in quantities
    adequate to meet our needs. However, due to the unique nature of
    the production of our products, we do have several single source
    providers of raw materials. We make efforts to qualify new
    vendors and to develop contingency plans so that production is
    not impacted by short-term issues associated with single source
    providers. Each of our third party service providers, suppliers
    and manufacturers are subject to continuing inspection by the
    FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions. Any delay,
    interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture,
    fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products, including as
    a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or
    operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency
    inspection, could significantly impair our ability to sell our
    products. See the sections of  Item 1A  
    Risk Factors  entitled  Problems with manufacturing or
    with inventory planning could result in our inability to deliver
    products, inventory shortages or surpluses, product recalls and
    increased costs ,  We rely on third parties to provide
    services in connection with the manufacture of our products and,
    in some instances, the manufacture of the product itself, 
    and  If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of
    governmental regulation in the manufacture of our products, we
    could incur substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales. 

We believe that our existing manufacturing facilities and
    outside sources will allow us to meet our near-term and
    long-term manufacturing needs for our current commercial
    products and our other products currently in clinical trials.
    Our existing licensed manufacturing facilities operate under
    multiple licenses from the FDA, regulatory authorities in the EU
    and other regulatory authorities. For a discussion of risks
    related to our ability to meet our manufacturing needs for our
    commercial products and our other products currently in clinical
    trials, see the sections of  Item 1A   Risk
    Factors  entitled  Problems with manufacturing or with
    inventory planning could result in our inability to deliver
    products, inventory shortages or surpluses, product recalls and
    increased costs ,  We rely on third parties to provide
    services in connection with the manufacture of our products and,
    in some instances, the manufacture of the product itself, 
    and  If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of
    governmental regulation in the manufacture of our products, we
    could incur substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales. 

Additional manufacturing facilities and outside sources may be
    required to meet our long-term research, development and
    commercial production needs.

Our
    Employees  

As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    4,300 employees.

25

Table of Contents   

Our
    Executive Officers  

The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages as
    of February 14, 2008 and their principal positions.

Name 

Age 

Position 

James C. Mullen

49

Chief Executive Officer and President

Cecil B. Pickett, Ph.D. 

62

President, Research and Development

Paul J. Clancy

46

Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Susan H. Alexander, Esq. 

51

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

John M. Dunn, Esq. 

55

Executive Vice President, New Ventures

Robert A. Hamm

56

Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations  
    Technology

Hans Peter Hasler

52

Executive Vice President, Global Neurology, Head of International

Faheem Hasnain

49

Executive Vice President, Oncology/Rheumatology Strategic
    Business Unit

Michael F. MacLean

42

Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller

Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. 

60

Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications

Mark C. Wiggins

52

Executive Vice President, Corporate and Business Development

Reference to  our  or  us  in the following
    descriptions of the background of our executive officers include
    Biogen Idec and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation.

James C. Mullen  is our Chief Executive Officer and
    President and is a director, and has served in these positions
    since the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation, or the merger, in November 2003. Mr. Mullen
    was formerly Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
    of Biogen, Inc. He was named Chairman of the Board of Directors
    of Biogen, Inc. in July 2002, after being named President and
    Chief Executive Officer of Biogen, Inc. in June 2000.
    Mr. Mullen joined Biogen, Inc. in 1989 as Director,
    Facilities and Engineering. He was named Biogen, Inc. s
    Vice President, Operations, in 1992. From 1996 to 1999,
    Mr. Mullen served as Vice President, International, with
    responsibility for building all Biogen, Inc. operations outside
    North America. From 1984 to 1988, Mr. Mullen held various
    positions at SmithKline Beckman Corporation (now GlaxoSmithKline
    plc). Mr. Mullen is a member of the board of directors and
    executive committee of the Biotechnology Industry Organization,
    or BIO, and is a former chairman of the board of BIO.
    Mr. Mullen is also a director of PerkinElmer, Inc.

Cecil B. Pickett Ph.D.  is our President, Research and
    Development and has served in that position since September 2006
    and has served as one of our directors since September 2006.
    Prior to joining Biogen Idec, he was President, Schering-Plough
    Research Institute from March 2002 to September 2006, and before
    that he was Executive VP of Discovery Research at
    Schering-Plough Corporation from September 1993 to March 2002.
    Mr. Pickett is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the
    National Academy of Sciences.

Paul J. Clancy  is our Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer and has served in that position
    since August 2007. Mr. Clancy joined Biogen Idec in 2001,
    and has held several senior executive positions, including Vice
    President of Business Planning, Portfolio Management and
    U.S. Marketing, and Senior Vice President of Finance with
    responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax, Investor
    Relations and Business Planning groups. Prior to joining Biogen
    Idec, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, serving in a range of
    financial and general management positions.

Susan H. Alexander  is our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation, since
    September 2003. From June 2001

26

Table of Contents   

to September 2003, Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel
    of IONA Technologies. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander served
    as Counsel at Cabot Corporation from January 1995 to May 2001.
    Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner of the law firms
    of Hinckley, Allen   Snyder and Fine  
    Ambrogne.

John M. Dunn  is our Executive Vice President, New
    Ventures and has served in that position since the merger in
    November 2003. Mr. Dunn was our Senior Vice President,
    Legal and Compliance, and General Counsel from January 2002 to
    November 2003. Prior to that, he was a partner at the law firm
    of Pillsbury Winthrop LLP specializing in corporate and business
    representation of public and private companies.

Robert A. Hamm  is our Executive Vice President,
    Pharmaceutical Operations   Technology, and has served
    in that position since October 2007. Previously, Mr. Hamm
    served as Senior Vice President, Neurology Strategic Business
    Unit from January 2006 to October 2007; Senior Vice President,
    Immunology Business Unit from the merger in November 2003 until
    January 2006; and in the same capacity with Biogen, Inc. from
    November 2002 to November 2003. Before that, he served as Senior
    Vice President   Europe, Africa, Canada and Middle
    East from October 2001 to November 2002. Prior to that,
    Mr. Hamm served as Vice President   Sales and
    Marketing of Biogen, Inc. from October 2000 to October 2001.
    Mr. Hamm previously served as Vice President  
    Manufacturing from June 1999 to October 2000, Director, Northern
    Europe and Distributors from November 1996 until June 1999 and
    Associate Director, Logistics from April 1994 until November
    1996. From 1987 until April 1994, Mr. Hamm held a variety
    of management positions at Syntex Laboratories Corporation,
    including Director of Operations and New Product Planning, and
    Manager of Materials, Logistics and Contract Manufacturing.
    Mr. Hamm is a director of Inhibitex, Inc.

Hans Peter Hasler  has served as our Executive Vice
    President, Global Neurology, Head of International since October
    2007 and has managed our international business since the
    merger. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Head of
    International from November 2003 to October 2007. He served as
    Executive Vice President   International of Biogen,
    Inc. from July 2003 until the merger, and joined Biogen, Inc as
    Executive Vice President   Commercial Operations in
    August 2001. Mr. Hasler joined Biogen, Inc. from
    Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Inc., an affiliate of American
    Home Products, Inc. (AHP), where he served as Senior Vice
    President, Head of Global Strategic Marketing from 1998 to 2001.
    Mr. Hasler was a member of the Wyeth/AHP Executive
    Committee and was chairman of the Commercial Council. From 1993
    to 1998, Mr. Hasler served in a variety of senior
    management capacities for Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals,
    including Managing Director of Wyeth Group, Germany, and General
    Manager of AHP/Wyeth in Switzerland and Central Eastern Europe.
    Prior to joining Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Mr. Hasler
    served as the Head of Pharma Division at Abbott AG.
    Mr. Hasler is a member of the Board of Directors of Orexo
    AB and Santhera Pharmaceuticals.

Faheem Hasnain  has served as our Executive Vice
    President, Oncology/Rheumatology Strategic Business Unit since
    October 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Hasnain served as Senior
    Vice President, Oncology Rheumatology Strategic Business Unit
    from February 2007 to October 2007 and as Senior Vice President,
    Oncology Strategic Business Unit from October 2004 to February
    2007. Prior to that, Mr. Hasnain served as President,
    Oncology Therapeutics Network at Bristol-Myers Squibb from March
    2002 to September 2004. From January 2001 to February 2002,
    Mr. Hasnain served as Vice President, Global eBusiness at
    GlaxoSmithKline and prior to 2000 served in key commercial and
    entrepreneurial roles within GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor
    organizations, spanning global eBusiness, international
    commercial operations, sales and marketing.

Michael F. MacLean  is our Senior Vice President, Chief
    Accounting Officer and Controller and has served in that
    position since December 2006. Mr. MacLean joined us in
    October 2006 as Senior Vice President. Prior to joining us,
    Mr. MacLean was a managing director of Huron Consulting,
    where he provided support regarding financial reporting to
    management and boards of directors of Fortune
    500 companies. From June 2002 to October 2005,
    Mr. MacLean was a partner at KPMG and he was a partner of
    Arthur Andersen LLP from September 1999 to May 2002.

Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D.   is our
    Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications and has served in that position since October
    2007. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources from November 2003 to October 2007. Dr. Schneier
    served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Biogen,
    Inc., a position he held from January 2003 until the merger. He
    joined Biogen, Inc. in 2001 as Senior Vice President, Strategic
    Organization Design and Effectiveness, after having served as an
    external

27

Table of Contents   

consultant to us for eight years. Prior to joining Biogen, Inc.,
    Dr. Schneier was president of his own management consulting
    firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided consulting services to
    over 70 of the Fortune 100 companies, as well as several of
    the largest European and Asian firms. Dr. Schneier held a
    tenured professorship at the University of Maryland s Smith
    School of Business and has held teaching positions at the
    business schools of the University of Michigan, Columbia
    University, and at the Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth
    College.

Mark C. Wiggins  is our Executive Vice President,
    Corporate and Business Development and has served in that
    capacity since July 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Wiggins served
    as our Senior Vice President, Business Development from November
    2003 to July 2004, Vice President of Marketing and Business
    Development from November 2000 to November 2003, and Vice
    President of Business Development from May 1998 to November
    2000. From 1996 to 1998, he was Vice President of Business
    Development and Marketing for Hybridon. From 1986 to 1996 he
    held various positions of increasing responsibility at
    Schering-Plough Corporation, including Director of Business
    Development.

28

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

We are
    substantially dependent on revenues from our two principal
    products   

Our current and future revenues depend substantially upon
    continued sales of our two principal products, AVONEX and
    RITUXAN, which represented approximately 88% of our total
    revenues in 2007. Any significant negative developments relating
    to these two products, such as safety or efficacy issues, the
    introduction or greater acceptance of competing products
    (including greater than anticipated substitution of TYSABRI for
    AVONEX) or adverse regulatory or legislative developments, would
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
    Although we have developed and continue to develop additional
    products for commercial introduction, we expect to be
    substantially dependent on sales from these two products for
    many years. A decline in sales from either of these two products
    would adversely affect our business.

Our
    near-term success depends on the market acceptance and
    successful sales growth of TYSABRI   

A substantial portion of our growth in the near-term is
    dependent on anticipated sales of TYSABRI. TYSABRI is expected
    to diversify our product offerings and revenues, and to drive
    additional revenue growth over the next several years. If we are
    not successful in growing sales of TYSABRI, that would result in
    a significant reduction in diversification and expected
    revenues, and adversely affect our business.

Achievement of anticipated sales growth of TYSABRI will depend
    upon its acceptance by the medical community and patients, which
    cannot be certain given the significant restrictions on use and
    the significant safety warnings in the label. Additional cases
    of the known side effect PML at a higher rate than indicated in
    the prescribing information, or the occurrence of other
    unexpected side effects could harm acceptance and limit TYSABRI
    sales. Any significant lack of acceptance of TYSABRI by the
    medical community or patients would materially and adversely
    affect our growth and our plans for the future.

As a relatively new entrant to a maturing MS market, TYSABRI
    sales may be more sensitive to additional new competing
    products. A number of such products are expected to be approved
    for use in MS in the coming years. If these products have a
    similar or more attractive overall profile in terms of efficacy,
    convenience and safety, future sales of TYSABRI could be limited.

Our
    business could be negatively affected as a result of a
    threatened proxy fight and other actions of activist
    shareholders   

We recently received a notice from Icahn Partners and certain of
    its affiliates nominating three individuals for election to our
    Board of Directors at the 2008 annual meeting and proposing to
    amend our bylaws to set the number of directors at twelve. If a
    proxy contest results from this notice, our business could be
    adversely affected because:

Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist
    shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our
    operations and diverting the attention of management and our
    employees;

Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in
    the loss of potential acquisitions, collaborations or
    in-licensing opportunities, and may make it more difficult to
    retain business partners; and

If individuals are elected to our board of directors with a
    specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to
    effectively and timely implement our strategic plan.

These actions could cause our stock price to experience periods
    of volatility.

Our
    long-term success depends upon the successful development and
    commercialization of other products from our research and
    development activities   

Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the
    successful development and commercialization of other products
    from our research and development activities. Product
    development and commercialization are very expensive and involve
    a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and
    development programs result in the commercialization of a
    product. Success in early stage clinical trials or preclinical
    work does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical
    trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials
    are successful, the risk

29

Table of Contents   

remains that unexpected concerns may arise from additional data
    or analysis or that obstacles may arise or issues may be
    identified in connection with review of clinical data with
    regulatory authorities or that regulatory authorities may
    disagree with our view of the data or require additional data or
    information or additional studies.

Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and
    expensive process. Our ability to complete our clinical trials
    in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key
    factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional
    review board approval, the rate of patient enrollment in
    clinical trials, and compliance with extensive current good
    clinical practice requirements. We have recently opened clinical
    sites and are enrolling patients in a number of new countries
    where our experience is more limited, and we are in many cases
    using the services of third-party contract clinical trial
    providers. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution
    and regulatory aspects of our large, complex and diverse
    clinical trials, our studies and ultimately our regulatory
    approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our
    product candidates altogether.

Adverse
    safety events can negatively affect our assets, product sales,
    operations and products in development   

Even after we receive marketing approval for a product, adverse
    event reports may have a negative impact on our
    commercialization efforts. Our voluntary withdrawal of TYSABRI
    from the market in February 2005 following reports of cases of
    PML resulted in a significant reduction in expected revenues as
    well as significant expense and management time required to
    address the legal and regulatory issues arising from the
    withdrawal, including revised labeling and enhanced risk
    management programs. Later discovery of safety issues with our
    products that were not known at the time of their approval by
    the FDA could cause product liability events, additional
    regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling,
    withdrawal of products from the market and the imposition of
    fines or criminal penalties. Any of these actions could result
    in, among other things, material write-offs of inventory and
    impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and fixed assets.

If we
    fail to compete effectively, our business and market position
    would suffer   

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry is intensely
    competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our
    products, the development of new products and processes, the
    acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential
    and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with
    biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater
    number of products on the market, greater financial and other
    resources and other technological or competitive advantages. We
    cannot be certain that one or more of our competitors will not
    receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely
    affects our product development or business, will not benefit
    from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities, or
    will not develop products that are accepted more widely than
    ours. The introduction of alternatives to our products that
    offer advantages in efficacy, safety or ease of use could
    negatively affect our revenues and reduce the value of our
    product development efforts. In addition, potential governmental
    action in the future could provide a means for competition from
    developers of follow-on biologics, which could compete on price
    and differentiation with products that we now or could in the
    future market.

In addition to competing directly with products that are
    marketed by substantial pharmaceutical competitors, AVONEX,
    RITUXAN and TYSABRI also face competition from off-label uses of
    drugs approved for other indications. Some of our current
    competitors are also working to develop alternative formulations
    for delivery of their products, which may in the future compete
    with ours.

30

Table of Contents   

We
    depend on collaborators for both product and royalty revenue and
    the clinical development of future collaboration products, which
    are outside of our full control   

Collaborations between companies on products or programs are a
    common business practice in the biotechnology industry.
    Out-licensing typically allows a partner to collect up front
    payments and future milestone payments, share the costs of
    clinical development and risk of failure at various points, and
    access sales and marketing infrastructure and expertise in
    exchange for certain financial rights to the product or program
    going to the in-licensing partner. In addition, the obligation
    of in-licensees to pay royalties or share profits generally
    terminates upon expiration of the related patents. We have a
    number of collaborators and partners, and have both in-licensed
    and out-licensed several products and programs. These
    collaborations include several risks:

we are not fully in control of the royalty or profit sharing
    revenues we receive from collaborators, and we cannot be certain
    of the timing or potential impact of factors including patent
    expirations, pricing or health care reforms, other legal and
    regulatory developments, failure of our partners to comply with
    applicable laws and regulatory requirements, the introduction of
    competitive products, and new indication approvals which may
    affect the sales of collaboration products;

where we copromote and co-market products with our collaboration
    partners, any failure on their part to comply with applicable
    laws in the sale and marketing of our products could have an
    adverse effect on our revenues as well as involve us in possible
    legal proceedings; and

collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and
    failure to do so effectively could have an impact on product
    sales by our collaborators and partners, as well as an impact on
    the clinical development of shared products or programs under
    joint control.

In addition, the successful development and commercialization of
    new anti-CD20 product candidates in our collaboration with
    Genentech (which also includes RITUXAN) will decrease our
    participation in the operating profits from the collaboration
    (including as to RITUXAN).

We
    depend, to a significant extent, on reimbursement from third
    party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement
    could negatively affect our product sales and
    revenue   

Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the
    availability and extent of reimbursement from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. U.S. and foreign government regulations
    mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to
    our products impact our business and our future results could be
    adversely affected by changes in such regulations.

In the U.S., at both the federal and state levels, the
    government regularly proposes legislation to reform healthcare
    and its cost, any of which may impact our ability to
    successfully commercialize our products. In the last few years,
    there have been a number of legislative changes that have
    affected the reimbursement for our products, including, but not
    limited to, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
    Modernization Act of 2003 and most recently, the Deficit
    Reduction Act of 2005. The Deficit Reduction Act made
    significant changes to the Medicaid prescription drug provisions
    of the Social Security Act, including changes that impose the
    monthly reporting of price information and that may have an
    impact on the Medicaid rebates we pay. In addition, states may
    more aggressively seek Medicaid rebates as a result of
    legislation enacted in 2006, which rebate activity could
    adversely affect our results of operations.

Pricing pressures in the U.S. may increase as a result of
    the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
    of 2003. Managed care organizations as well as Medicaid and
    other government health administration authorities continue to
    seek price discounts. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid
    expenses may continue to increase the use of managed care
    organizations. This may result in managed care organizations
    influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the
    population and a corresponding constraint on prices and
    reimbursement for our products. In addition, some states have
    implemented and other states are considering price controls or
    patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some
    states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to
    broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid
    eligible. Other matters also could be the subject of
    U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that
    could adversely affect our business, including the importation
    of prescription drugs that are marketed outside the
    U.S. and sold at lower prices as a result of drug price
    limitations imposed by the governments of various foreign
    countries.

31

Table of Contents   

We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    other countries. In the EU and some other international markets,
    the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and
    regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or
    reimbursement levels to control costs for the
    government-sponsored health care system. This international
    patchwork of price regulations may lead to inconsistent prices.
    Within the EU and other countries, some third party trade in our
    products occurs from markets with lower prices thereby
    undermining our sales in some markets with higher prices.
    Additionally, certain countries reference the prices in other
    countries where our products are marketed. Thus, inability to
    secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair
    our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and
    potential new markets. This may create the opportunity for the
    third party cross border trade previously mentioned or our
    decision not to sell the product thus affecting our geographic
    expansion plans.

When a new medical product is approved, the availability of
    government and private reimbursement for that product is
    uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be
    reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of
    reimbursement for our product candidates.

If we
    do not successfully execute our strategy of growth through the
    acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products,
    technologies or companies, our future performance could be
    adversely affected   

In addition to the expansion of our pipeline through spending on
    internal development projects, we plan to grow through external
    growth opportunities, which include the acquisition, partnering
    and in-licensing of products, technologies and companies or the
    entry into strategic alliances and collaborations. If we are
    unable to complete or manage these external growth opportunities
    successfully, we will not be able to grow our business in the
    way that we currently expect. The availability of high quality
    opportunities is limited and we are not certain that we will be
    able to identify suitable candidates or complete transactions on
    terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, even if we are
    able to successfully identify and complete acquisitions, we may
    not be able to integrate them or take full advantage of them and
    therefore may not realize the benefits that we expect. If we are
    unsuccessful in our external growth program, we may not be able
    to grow our business significantly and we may incur asset
    impairment charges as a result of acquisitions that are not
    successful.

Our
    business is subject to extensive governmental regulation and
    oversight and changes in laws could adversely affect our
    revenues and profitability   

Our business is in a highly regulated industry. As a result,
    governmental actions may adversely affect our business,
    operations or financial condition, including:

new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new
    interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions,
    related to health care availability, method of delivery and
    payment for health care products and services;

changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes
    that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
    result in lost market opportunity;

changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require
    additional safety monitoring after the introduction of our
    products to market, which could increase our costs of doing
    business and adversely affect the future permitted uses of
    approved products;

new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing
    or marketing; and

changes in the tax laws relating to our operations.

The enactment in the U.S. of the Medicare Prescription Drug
    Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, possible legislation
    which could ease the entry of competing follow-on biologics in
    the marketplace, and importation of lower-cost competing drugs
    from other jurisdictions are examples of changes and possible
    changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. In
    addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of
    2007 included new authorization for the FDA to require
    post-market safety monitoring, along with a clinical trials
    registry, and expanded authority for FDA to impose civil
    monetary penalties on companies that fail to meet certain
    commitments.

32

Table of Contents   

If we
    fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory
    requirements affecting the healthcare industry, we could face
    increased costs, penalties and a loss of business   

Our activities, including the sale and marketing of our
    products, are subject to extensive government regulation and
    oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions.
    Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target
    of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government
    regulation, including claims asserting submission of incorrect
    pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of
    pharmaceutical products, causing false claims to be submitted
    for government reimbursement as well as antitrust violations, or
    other violations related to environmental matters. Violations of
    governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and
    exclusion from participation in government programs. In addition
    to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be
    required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or
    pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have
    miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the
    government Whether or not we have complied with the law, an
    investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our
    expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and
    attention and adversely affect our business.

The federal Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law prohibits
    payments intended to induce any entity either to purchase,
    order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase of healthcare
    products or services paid for under federal health care
    programs. There are similar laws in a number of states. These
    laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional
    activities of manufacturers of drugs and biologics, such as us,
    by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales
    programs, with hospitals, physicians, and other potential
    purchasers of drugs and biologics. Other federal and state laws
    generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly
    presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from
    federal health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, or
    other third party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are
    for items or services that were not provided as claimed.
    Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal
    penalties for noncompliance that can be substantial, including
    the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs
    (including Medicare and Medicaid).

Problems
    with manufacturing or with inventory planning could result in
    our inability to deliver products, inventory shortages or
    surpluses, product recalls and increased costs   

We manufacture and expect to continue to manufacture our own
    commercial requirements of bulk AVONEX and TYSABRI. Our products
    are difficult to manufacture and problems in our manufacturing
    processes can occur. Our inability to successfully manufacture
    bulk product and to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals of
    our manufacturing facilities would harm our ability to produce
    timely sufficient quantities of commercial supplies of AVONEX
    and TYSABRI to meet demand. Problems with manufacturing
    processes could result in product defects or manufacturing
    failures that could require us to delay shipment of products or
    recall or withdraw products previously shipped, which could
    result in inventory write-offs and impair our ability to expand
    into new markets or supply products in existing markets. In the
    past, we have had to write down and incur other charges and
    expenses for products that failed to meet specifications.
    Similar charges may occur in the future. In addition, lower than
    expected demand for our products, including suspension of sales,
    or a change in product mix may result in less than optimal
    utilization of our manufacturing facilities and lower inventory
    turnover, which could result in abnormal manufacturing variance
    charges, facility impairment charges and charges for excess and
    obsolete inventory.

We rely solely on our manufacturing facility in Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina, or RTP, for the production of
    TYSABRI. We plan on applying to the FDA and EMEA for approval of
    a production process, known as a second generation high-titer
    process, which yields much higher concentrations of TYSABRI than
    the process we currently use. If we do not obtain approval for
    that process, to meet anticipated demand for TYSABRI, we would
    need to increase our capital spending to add capacity at our RTP
    manufacturing facility and at the Hillerod, Denmark facility we
    are completing. Such an increase in capital spending would
    affect our business, cash position and results of operations.

If we cannot produce sufficient commercial requirements of bulk
    product to meet demand, we would need to rely on third party
    contract manufacturers, of which there are only a limited number
    capable of manufacturing bulk products of the type we require.
    We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement on reasonable
    terms, if at all,

33

Table of Contents   

with those manufacturers. Even if we were to reach agreement,
    the transition of the manufacturing process to a third party to
    enable commercial supplies could take a significant amount of
    time. Our ability to supply products in sufficient capacity to
    meet demand is also dependent upon third party contractors to
    fill-finish, package and store such products. Any prolonged
    interruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing
    facilities could result in cancellations of shipments or loss of
    product in the process of being manufactured. Because our
    manufacturing processes are highly complex and are subject to a
    lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production
    capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all.

We
    rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, the
    manufacture of the product itself   

We rely on Genentech for all RITUXAN manufacturing. Genentech
    relies on a third party to manufacture certain bulk RITUXAN
    requirements. If Genentech or any third party upon which it
    relies does not manufacture or fill-finish RITUXAN in sufficient
    quantities and on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if
    Genentech or any third party does not obtain and maintain all
    required manufacturing approvals, our business could be harmed.

We also source all of our fill-finish and the majority of our
    final product storage operations, along with a substantial
    portion of our packaging operations of the components used with
    our products, to a concentrated group of third party
    contractors. The manufacture of products and product components,
    fill-finish, packaging and storage of our products require
    successful coordination among us and multiple third party
    providers. Our inability to coordinate these efforts, the lack
    of capacity available at a third party contractor or any other
    problems with the operations of these third party contractors
    could require us to delay shipment of saleable products, recall
    products previously shipped or impair our ability to supply
    products at all. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose
    revenue or market share, diminish our profitability and damage
    our reputation. Any third party we use to fill-finish, package
    or store our products to be sold in the U.S. must be
    licensed by the FDA. As a result, alternative third party
    providers may not be readily available on a timely basis.

Due to the unique nature of the production of our products,
    there are several single source providers of raw materials. We
    make every effort to qualify new vendors and to develop
    contingency plans so that production is not impacted by
    short-term issues associated with single source providers.
    Nonetheless, our business could be materially impacted by long
    term or chronic issues associated with single source providers.

If we
    fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental
    regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur
    substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales   

We and our third party providers are generally required to
    maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or
    cGMP, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable
    agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any
    changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of
    manufacturing require amending our application to the FDA and
    acceptance of the change by the FDA prior to release of product
    to the marketplace. Our inability, or the inability of our third
    party service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance
    could require us to withdraw or recall product and interrupt
    commercial supply of our products. Any delay, interruption or
    other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish,
    packaging, or storage of our products as a result of a failure
    of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third
    parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could
    significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize
    our products. This non-compliance could increase our costs,
    cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our
    reputation.

We
    have made a significant investment in constructing a
    manufacturing facility the success of which depends upon the
    completion and licensing of the facility and continued demand
    for our products   

We are building a large-scale biologic manufacturing facility in
    Hillerod, Denmark, in which we have invested approximately
    $300 million. We anticipate that the facility will be ready
    for commercial production in 2009. If we fail to manage the
    project, or other unforeseen events occur, we may incur
    additional costs to complete the project. Depending on the
    timing of the completion and licensing of the facility, and our
    other estimates and assumptions regarding future product sales,
    the carrying value of all or part of the manufacturing facility
    or other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in
    the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value at the
    time that such

34

Table of Contents   

effects are identified. The recognition of impairment in the
    carrying value, if any, could have a material and adverse affect
    on our results of operations. For example, if the anticipated
    demand for TYSABRI does not materialize, the carrying values of
    our Hillerod, Denmark facility could be impaired, which would
    negatively impact our results of operations.

If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and key
    relationships, the growth of our business could be
    harmed   

Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon our ability to
    attract and retain qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales
    and marketing and executive personnel and our ability to develop
    and maintain relationships with qualified clinical researchers
    and key distributors. Competition for these people and
    relationships is intense and we compete with numerous
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as with
    universities and
     non-profit 
    research organizations. Any inability we experience to continue
    to attract and retain qualified personnel or develop and
    maintain key relationships could have an adverse effect on our
    ability to accomplish our research, development and external
    growth objectives.

Our
    sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally   

We are increasing our presence in international markets, which
    subjects us to many risks, such as:

economic problems that disrupt foreign healthcare payment
    systems;

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

the imposition of governmental controls;

less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;

the inability to obtain any necessary foreign regulatory or
    pricing approvals of products in a timely manner;

restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade
    restrictions;

changes in tax laws and tariffs;

difficulties in staffing and managing international
    operations; and

longer payment cycles.

Our operations and marketing practices are also subject to
    regulation and scrutiny by the governments of the other
    countries in which we operate. In addition, the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits U.S. companies and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or
    retaining business abroad. In many countries, the healthcare
    professionals we regularly interact with meet the definition of
    a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. Additionally, we
    are subject to other U.S. laws in our international
    operations. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws
    could result in various adverse consequences, including possible
    delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls,
    seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market,
     and/or  the
    imposition of civil or criminal sanctions.

A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than
    our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. We recognize
    foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in
    the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result,
    currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the
    currencies in which we do business will affect our operating
    results, often in unpredictable ways.

Our
    operating results are subject to significant
    fluctuations   

Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have
    fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly
    in the future due to the timing of charges and expenses that we
    may take. In recent periods, for instance, we have recorded
    charges that include:

acquired in-process research and development at the time we make
    an acquisition;

impairments that we are required to take with respect to
    investments;

35

Table of Contents   

impairments that we are required to take with respect to fixed
    assets, including those that are recorded in connection with the
    sale of fixed assets;

Inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges
    for excess
     and/or 
    obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write downs
    relating to product suspensions; and

the cost of restructurings.

Additionally, net income may fluctuate due to the impact of
    charges we may be required to take with respect to foreign
    currency hedge transactions. In particular, we may incur higher
    charges from hedge ineffectiveness than we expect or from the
    termination of a hedge relationship.

These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including
    those discussed in these  Risk Factors,  could also
    cause fluctuations in our reported earnings. In addition, our
    operating results during any one quarter do not necessarily
    suggest the anticipated results of future quarters.

If we
    are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual
    property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our
    development efforts or our acquired technology   

We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and
    various other countries seeking protection of inventions
    originating from our research and development, including a
    number of our processes and products. Patents have been issued
    on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to
    various patents and patent applications under licenses with
    third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us.
    The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded
    to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the
    U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and
    is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the
    patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. Our
    patents may not afford us substantial protection or commercial
    benefit. Similarly, our pending patent applications or patent
    applications licensed from third parties may not ultimately be
    granted as patents and we may not prevail if patents that have
    been issued to us are challenged in court. In addition, pending
    legislation to reform the patent system could also reduce our
    ability to enforce our patents. We do not know when, or if,
    changes to the U.S. patent system will become law. If we
    are unable to protect our intellectual property rights and
    prevent others from exploiting our inventions, we will not
    derive the benefit from them that we currently expect.

If our
    products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we
    may incur damages and be required to incur the expense of
    obtaining a license   

A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Competitors
    may have filed applications for, or have been issued patents and
    may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may
    relate to products or processes competitive with or similar to
    our products and processes. Moreover, the patent laws of the
    U.S. and foreign countries are distinct and decisions as to
    patenting, validity of patents and infringement of patents may
    be resolved differently in different countries. In general, we
    obtain licenses to third party patents that we deem necessary or
    desirable for the manufacture, use and sale of our products. We
    are currently unable to assess the extent to which we may wish
    or be required to acquire rights under such patents and the
    availability and cost of acquiring such rights, or whether a
    license to such patents will be available on acceptable terms or
    at all. There may be patents in the U.S. or in foreign
    countries or patents issued in the future that are unavailable
    to license on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain such
    licenses may hinder our ability to manufacture and market our
    products.

Uncertainty
    over intellectual property in the biotechnology industry has
    been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and
    unpredictable   

We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and
    in other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to
    our business. Some of those patents and patent applications
    claim only specific products or methods of making such products,
    while others claim more general processes or techniques useful
    or now used in the biotechnology industry. There is considerable
    uncertainty within the biotechnology industry about the
    validity,

36

Table of Contents   

scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the
    U.S. and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, there is no
    consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in
    biotechnology patents. We cannot currently determine the
    ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to
    third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted
    to be infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products.

There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. Litigation and
    administrative proceedings concerning patents and other
    intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and
    distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of
    delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation,
    including any interference proceedings to determine priority of
    inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or
    litigation against our partners, may be costly and time
    consuming and could harm our business. We expect that litigation
    may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and
    scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be
    necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope
     and/or 
    noninfringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could
    adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other
    proprietary rights, or, conversely, hinder our ability to
    manufacture and market our products.

Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation   

The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical
    studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product
    liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause
    of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or
    may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug
    interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those
    effects until the product or product candidate has been
    administered to patients for a prolonged period of time. For
    example, lawsuits have been filed by patients who have had
    serious adverse events while using TYSABRI, and we may face
    lawsuits with other product liability and related claims by
    patients treated with TYSABRI or other products.

We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any
    pending or future litigation. We may not be successful in
    defending ourselves in the litigation and, as a result, our
    business could be materially harmed. These lawsuits may result
    in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could
    have a negative effect on our financial condition and business.
    Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or
    not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert
    the attention of our management and other resources that would
    otherwise be engaged in managing our business.

We
    have recently incurred substantial indebtedness that could
    adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for
    or respond to changes in our business   

We have recently incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness
    and we may also incur additional debt in the future. This
    indebtedness could have significant consequences to our
    business, for example, it could:

increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
    reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes,
    including business development efforts and mergers and
    acquisitions; and

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that may have less debt.

Our
    business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of
    compliance and the risk of contamination or injury   

Our business and the business of several of our strategic
    partners, including Genentech and Elan, involve the controlled
    use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive
    compounds. Biologics manufacturing is extremely susceptible to
    product loss due to contamination, material equipment failure,
    or vendor or operator error. Although we believe that our safety
    procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply
    with state and

37

Table of Contents   

federal standards, there will always be the risk of accidental
    contamination or injury. In addition, microbial or viral
    contamination may cause the closure of a manufacturing facility
    for an extended period of time. By law, radioactive materials
    may only be disposed of at state-approved facilities. We
    currently store radioactive materials from our California
    laboratory
     on-site 
    because the approval of a disposal site in California for all
    California-based companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and
    when a disposal site is approved, we may incur substantial costs
    related to the disposal of these materials. If we were to become
    liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended
    facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and
    penalties that could harm our business. Biologics manufacturing
    also requires permits from government agencies for water supply
    and wastewater discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate
    permits, or permits for sufficient quantities of water and
    wastewater, we could incur significant costs and limits on our
    manufacturing volumes that could harm our business.

Our
    investments in marketable securities are significant and are
    subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce
    their value   

We maintain a significant portfolio of investments in marketable
    securities. Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes in
    the value of this portfolio. In particular, the value of our
    investments may be adversely affected by increases in interest
    rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds included in the
    portfolio and by other factors which may result in other than
    temporary declines in value of the investments. Each of these
    events may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying
    value of our investment portfolio.

We may
    incur liabilities to tax authorities in excess of amounts that
    have been accrued   

The preparation of our financial statements requires estimates
    of the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the
    jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, we determine our
    estimated liability for federal, state and local taxes (in the
    U.S.) and in many overseas jurisdictions. Our previous tax
    filings may be challenged by any of these taxing authorities
    and, in the event that we are not able to defend our position,
    we may incur unanticipated liabilities and such amounts could be
    significant. The jurisdictions in which we are subject to
    taxation may enact or change laws that would adversely impact
    the rate at which we are taxed in future periods. Such actions
    could result in an additional income tax provision.

Several
    aspects of our corporate governance and our collaboration
    agreements may discourage a third party from attempting to
    acquire us   

Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could
    be viewed as beneficial to stockholders who wish to receive a
    premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example:

we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a
    business combination with an interested stockholder for a period
    of three years after the date of the transaction in which the
    person became an interested stockholder, unless the business
    combination is approved in the manner prescribed in
    Section 203;

our stockholder rights plan is designed to cause substantial
    dilution to a person who attempts to acquire us on terms not
    approved by our board of directors;

our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a
    vote or action of stockholders, up to 8,000,000 shares of
    preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and
    privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to
    the rights of holders of common stock;

our collaboration agreement with Elan provides Elan with the
    option to buy the rights to TYSABRI in the event that we undergo
    a change of control, which may limit our attractiveness to
    potential acquirers;

our amended and restated collaboration agreement with Genentech
    provides that, in the event we undergo a change of control,
    within 90 days Genentech may present an offer to us to
    purchase our rights to RITUXAN. Recently, in an arbitration
    proceeding brought by Biogen Idec relating to the collaboration
    agreement, Genentech alleged for the first time that the
    November 2003 transaction in which Idec acquired Biogen and
    became Biogen Idec constituted such a change of control, an
    assertion with which we strongly disagree. It is our position
    that the Biogen Idec merger did not constitute a change of
    control under our agreement with

38

Table of Contents   

Genentech and that, even if it did, Genentech s rights
    under the change of control provision have long since expired.
    We intend to vigorously assert our position if Genentech
    persists in making this claim. If the arbitrators decide this
    issue in favor of Genentech, or if a change of control were to
    occur in the future and Genentech were to present an offer for
    the RITUXAN rights, we must either accept Genentech s offer
    or purchase Genentech s rights to RITUXAN on the same terms
    as its offer. If Genentech presents such an offer, then they
    will be deemed concurrently to have exercised a right, in
    exchange for a share in the operating profits or net sales in
    the U.S. of any other anti-CD 20 products developed under
    the agreement, to purchase our interest in each such product.

our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the
    entire board from being replaced in any single year; and

advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for
    election as a director and for proposals to be brought before an
    annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

39

Table of Contents   

Item 2.      

Properties   

Cambridge,
    Massachusetts and Surrounding Area   

Our principal executive offices are located in Cambridge,
    Massachusetts. In Cambridge, we own approximately
    510,000 square feet of real estate space, consisting of a
    250,000 square foot building that houses research
    laboratory, office spaces and a cogeneration plant; and an
    approximately 260,000 square foot building that contains
    research, development and quality laboratories. We also have
    development options for an additional 170,000 square feet
    in Cambridge. We lease a total of approximately
    440,000 square feet, consisting of additional office and
    manufacturing space, in all or part of five other buildings in
    Cambridge. In addition, we lease approximately
    36,000 square feet of warehouse space in Somerville,
    Massachusetts, approximately 105,000 square feet of office
    space in Wellesley, Massachusetts, and approximately
    25,000 square feet of office and lab space in Waltham,
    Massachusetts. The lease expiration dates for our leased sites
    in Massachusetts range from 2008 to 2015.

San Diego
    and Oceanside, California   

In San Diego, California, we own approximately
    43 acres of land upon which we have our oncology research
    and development campus. The campus consists of five
    interconnected buildings, which primarily contain laboratory and
    office space, totaling approximately 350,000 square feet.
    In July 2007, we sold two parcels of undeveloped property in
    Oceanside, California, totaling approximately 28 acres of
    land.

Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina   

In Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, we own approximately
    530,000 square feet of real estate space. This includes a
    108,000 square foot biologics manufacturing facility, a
    232,000 square foot large scale manufacturing plant, a
    second large-scale purification facility of 42,000 square
    feet, and a 150,000 square foot laboratory office building.
    We manufacture bulk AVONEX and TYSABRI at this facility. We plan
    to use this facility to manufacture other products in our
    pipeline and to meet any obligation to manufacture AMEVIVE
    resulting from our sale of that product to Astellas. We are
    continuing further upgrades in Research Triangle Park with
    ongoing construction of several projects to increase our
    manufacturing flexibility. In addition, we lease approximately
    44,000 square feet of office space in Durham, North
    Carolina.

International   

We lease space in Zug, Switzerland, our international
    headquarters, the United Kingdom, Germany, Austria, France,
    Belgium, Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Czech Republic, Slovenia,
    Slovak Republic, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Japan, India,
    China, Australia, New Zealand, Brazil and Canada. In addition,
    we own approximately 60 acres of property in Hillerod,
    Denmark. We are constructing a large-scale biologic
    manufacturing facility in Hillerod, Denmark to be used to
    manufacture TYSABRI and other products in our pipeline. An
    administrative building, label and packaging facility and lab
    facility are currently in use. For a discussion of our plans for
    the Hillerod, Denmark large-scale manufacturing facility, see
     Manufacturing and Raw Materials. 

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

On March 2, 2005, we, along with William H. Rastetter, our
    former Executive Chairman, and James C. Mullen, our Chief
    Executive Officer, were named as defendants in a purported class
    action lawsuit, captioned Brown v. Biogen Idec Inc., et al.
    ( Brown ), filed in the U.S. District Court for
    the District of Massachusetts (the  Court ). The
    complaint alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
     Rule 10b-5 
    promulgated thereunder. The action is purportedly brought on
    behalf of all purchasers of our publicly-traded securities
    between February 18, 2004 and February 25, 2005. The
    plaintiff alleges that the defendants made materially false and
    misleading statements regarding potentially serious side effects
    of TYSABRI in order to gain accelerated approval from the FDA
    for the product s distribution and sale. The plaintiff
    alleges that these materially false and misleading statements
    harmed the purported class by artificially inflating our stock
    price during the purported class period and that our insiders
    benefited personally from the inflated price by selling our
    stock. The plaintiff seeks unspecified damages, as well as
    interest, costs and attorneys  fees. Substantially similar
    actions, captioned Grill v. Biogen Idec Inc., et al. and
    Lobel v. Biogen Idec Inc., et al., were filed on
    March 10, 2005 and

40

Table of Contents   

April 21, 2005, respectively, in the same court by other
    purported class representatives. Those actions have been
    consolidated with the Brown case. On October 13, 2006, the
    plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated complaint which, among
    other amendments to the allegations, adds as defendants Peter N.
    Kellogg, our former Chief Financial Officer, William R. Rohn,
    our former Chief Operating Officer, Burt A. Adelman, our former
    Executive Vice President, Portfolio Strategy, and Thomas J.
    Bucknum, our former General Counsel. On September 14, 2007,
    the District Court Judge entered an Order allowing the Motions
    to Dismiss of all defendants. On October 15, 2007, the
    plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court
    of Appeals for the First Circuit. Plaintiff filed its principal
    brief on appeal on February 6, 2008. We have not formed an
    opinion that an unfavorable outcome is either
     probable  or  remote  and do not express an
    opinion at this time as to the likely outcome of the matter or
    as to the magnitude or range of any potential loss. We believe
    that we have good and valid defenses to the complaint and intend
    to vigorously defend the case.

On October 4, 2004, Genentech, Inc. received a subpoena
    from the U.S. Department of Justice requesting documents
    related to the promotion of RITUXAN. We market RITUXAN in the
    U.S. in collaboration with Genentech. Genentech has
    disclosed that it is cooperating with the associated
    investigation which they disclosed that they have been advised
    is both civil and criminal in nature. Genentech has reported
    further that the government has called and is expected to call
    former and current Genentech employees to appear before a grand
    jury in connection with this investigation. We are cooperating
    with the U.S. Department of Justice in its investigation of
    Genentech. The potential outcome of this matter and its impact
    on us cannot be determined at this time.

Along with several other major pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies, Biogen, Inc. (now Biogen Idec MA, Inc., one of our
    wholly-owned subsidiaries) or, in certain cases, Biogen Idec
    Inc., was named as a defendant in lawsuits filed by the City of
    New York and numerous Counties of the State of New York. All of
    the cases   except for cases filed by the County of
    Erie, County of Oswego and County of Schenectady   are
    the subject of a Consolidated Complaint ( Consolidated
    Complaint ), which was filed on June 15, 2005, and
    amended on June 8, 2007, in the U.S. District Court
    for the District of Massachusetts in Multi-District Litigation
    No. 1456 ( the MDL proceedings ). The County of
    Nassau joined in the amended Consolidated Complaint on
    June 8, 2007. On September 17, 2007, the County of
    Erie, County of Oswego and County of Schenectady cases were
    remanded to state court in New York.

All of the complaints in these cases allege that the defendants
    (i) fraudulently reported the Average Wholesale Price for
    certain drugs for which Medicaid provides reimbursement
    ( Covered Drugs  (ii) marketed and promoted the
    sale of Covered Drugs to providers based on the providers 
    ability to collect inflated payments from the government and
    Medicaid beneficiaries that exceeded payments possible for
    competing drugs; (iii) provided financing incentives to
    providers to over-prescribe Covered Drugs or to prescribe
    Covered Drugs in place of competing drugs; and
    (iv) overcharged Medicaid for illegally inflated Covered
    Drugs reimbursements. Among other things, the complaints allege
    violations of New York state law and advance common law claims
    for unfair trade practices, fraud, and unjust enrichment. In
    addition, the amended Consolidated Complaint alleges that the
    defendants failed to accurately report the  best
    price  on the Covered Drugs to the Secretary of Health and
    Human Services pursuant to rebate agreements, and excluded from
    their reporting certain discounts and other rebates that would
    have reduced the  best price. 

On September 7, 2006, a New York State court granted in
    part and denied in part Biogen Idec s motion to
    dismiss the County of Erie complaint. On April 2, 2007, the
    defendants  joint motion to dismiss the original
    Consolidated Complaint and the County of Nassau s second
    amended complaint were granted in part, but certain claims
    against Biogen Idec remained. Biogen Idec s individual
    motion to dismiss these complaints remains pending. We have not
    formed an opinion that an unfavorable outcome is either
     probable  or  remote  and do not express an
    opinion at this time as to the likely outcome of the matter or
    as to the magnitude or range of any potential loss. We believe
    that we have good and valid defenses to these complaints and
    intend to vigorously defend the case.

Along with several other major pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies, we were also named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed
    by the Attorney General of Arizona. The lawsuit was filed in the
    Superior Court of the State of Arizona and transferred to the
    MDL proceedings. The complaint, as amended on March 13,
    2007, is brought on behalf of Arizona consumers and other payors
    for drugs, and alleges that the defendants violated the state
    consumer fraud statute by fraudulently reporting the Average
    Wholesale Price for certain drugs covered by

41

Table of Contents   

various private and public insurance mechanisms and by marketing
    these drugs to providers based on the providers  ability to
    collect inflated payments from third-party payors. Motions to
    dismiss the complaint have not yet been filed and briefed. We
    have not formed an opinion that an unfavorable outcome is either
     probable  or  remote  and do not express an
    opinion at this time as to the likely outcome of the matter or
    as to the magnitude or range of any potential loss. We believe
    that we have good and valid defenses to the complaint and intend
    to vigorously defend the case.

On January 6, 2006, we were served with a lawsuit,
    captioned United States of America ex rel. Paul P.
    McDermott v. Genentech, Inc. and Biogen Idec, Inc., filed
    in the United States District Court of the District of Maine
    ( Court ). The lawsuit was filed under seal on
    July 29, 2005 by a former employee of our co-defendant
    Genentech pursuant to the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C.
    section 3729 et. seq. On December 20, 2005, the
    U.S. government elected not to intervene, and the complaint
    was subsequently unsealed and served. On April 4, 2006, the
    plaintiff filed his first amended complaint alleging, among
    other things, that we directly solicited physicians and their
    staff members to illegally market off-label uses of RITUXAN for
    treating rheumatoid arthritis, provided illegal kickbacks to
    physicians to promote off-label uses, trained our employees in
    methods of avoiding the detection of these off-label sales and
    marketing activities, formed a network of employees whose
    assigned duties involved off-label promotion of RITUXAN,
    intended and caused the off-label promotion of RITUXAN to result
    in the submission of false claims to the government, and
    conspired with Genentech to defraud the government. The
    plaintiff seeks entry of judgment on behalf of the United States
    of America against the defendants, an award to the plaintiff as
    relator, and all costs, expenses, attorneys  fees, interest
    and other appropriate relief. On July 24, 2007, the
    District Court granted Biogen Idec s motion to dismiss on
    the grounds that the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction,
    the complaint fails to state a claim and the claims were not
    pleaded with particularity. Certain of plaintiff s claims
    against Genentech are still pending. On August 14, 2007,
    the plaintiff filed a motion requesting that the Court allow the
    plaintiff to file an interlocutory appeal of the granting of
    Biogen Idec s motion to dismiss. The court denied the
    motion on October 22, 2007. We have not formed an opinion
    that an unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote  and do not express an opinion at this time as
    to the likely outcome of the matter or as to the magnitude or
    range of any potential loss. We believe that we have good and
    valid defenses to the complaint and intend to vigorously defend
    the case.

On June 17, 2006, Biogen Idec filed a Demand for
    Arbitration against Genentech, Inc. with the American
    Arbitration Association ( AAA ), which was amended on
    December 5, 2006 and January 29, 2008. Biogen Idec
    alleges that Genentech breached the parties  Amended and
    Restated Collaboration Agreement dated June 19, 2003 (the
     Collaboration Agreement ), by failing to honor Biogen
    Idec s contractual right to participate in strategic
    decisions affecting the parties  joint development and
    commercialization of certain pharmaceutical products, including
    humanized anti-CD20 antibodies. Genentech filed an Answering
    Statement in response to Biogen Idec s Demand in which
    Genentech denied that it had breached the Collaboration
    Agreement and alleged that Biogen Idec had breached the
    Collaboration Agreement. Genentech also asserted for the first
    time that the November 2003 transaction in which Idec acquired
    Biogen and became Biogen Idec was a change of control under the
    Collaboration Agreement, a position with which we disagree
    strongly. It is our position that the Biogen Idec merger did not
    constitute a change of control under the Collaboration Agreement
    and that, even if it did, Genentech s rights under the
    change of control provision, which must be asserted within
    90 days of the change of control event, have long since
    expired. We have not formed an opinion that an unfavorable
    outcome is either  probable  or  remote  and
    do not express an opinion at this time as to the likely outcome
    of the matter or as to the magnitude or range of any potential
    loss. We believe that we have good and valid defenses to
    Genentech s allegations in the arbitration and intend to
    vigorously defend against these allegations.

On September 12, 2006, the Massachusetts Department of
    Revenue ( DOR ) issued a notice of assessment against
    Biogen Idec MA, Inc. for $38.9 million of corporate excise
    tax for the 2001, 2002 and 2003 tax years, which includes
    associated interest and penalties. On December 6, 2006, we
    filed an abatement application with the DOR, seeking abatements
    for
     2001-2003. 
    The abatement application was denied on July 24, 2007. On
    July 25, 2007, we filed a petition with the Massachusetts
    Appellate Tax Board, seeking abatements of corporate excise tax
    for the
     2001-2003 
    tax years and adjustments in certain credits and credit
    carryforwards for the
     2001-2003 years. 
    Issues before the Board include the computation of Biogen
    MA s sales factor for
     2001-2003, 
    computation of Biogen MA s research credits for those same
    years, and the availability of deductions for certain expenses
    and partnership flow-

42

Table of Contents   

through items. We intend to contest this matter vigorously. We
    believe that the assessment does not impact the level of
    liabilities for income tax contingencies.

On August 10, 2004, Classen Immunotherapies, Inc. filed
    suit against us, GlaxoSmithKline, Chiron Corporation,
    Merck   Co., Inc., and Kaiser-Permanente, Inc. in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland contending
    that we induced infringement of U.S. Patent Nos, 6,420,139,
    6,638,739, 5,728,383, and 5,723,283, all of which are directed
    to various methods of immunization or determination of
    immunization schedules. All Counts asserted against us by
    Classen were dismissed by the Court upon various motions filed
    by the Parties. In early December 2006, Classen filed its
    initial appeal brief with the United States Court of Appeals for
    the Federal Circuit. On March 7, 2007, we filed our brief
    in response. The Court of Appeals held oral argument on
    August 8, 2007. We have not formed an opinion that an
    unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote  and do not express an opinion at this time as
    to the likely outcome of the matter or as to the magnitude or
    range of any potential loss. We believe that we have good and
    valid defenses to the complaint and intend to vigorously defend
    the case.

On January 30, 2007, the Estate of Thaddeus Leoniak commenced a
    civil lawsuit in the Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,
    Pennsylvania, against Biogen Idec, the Fox Chase Cancer Center
    and three physicians. The complaint alleges that Thaddeus
    Leoniak died as a result of taking the drug ZEVALIN, and seeks
    to hold Biogen Idec strictly liable for placing an allegedly
     unreasonably dangerous  product in the stream of
    commerce without proper warnings. The complaint also seeks to
    hold us liable for alleged negligence in the design,
    manufacture, advertising, marketing, promoting, distributing,
    supplying and selling of ZEVALIN. The lawsuit seeks damages for
    pecuniary losses suffered by the decedent s survivors and
    for compensatory damages for decedent s pain and suffering,
    loss of earnings and deprivation of normal activities, all in an
    amount  in excess of $50,000.  On January 31,
    2007, the Plaintiff s counsel demanded $7.0 million to
    settle the lawsuit. We have not formed an opinion that an
    unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote  and do not express an opinion at this time as
    to the likely outcome of the matter or as to the magnitude or
    range of any potential loss. We believe that we have good and
    valid defenses to the complaint and intend to vigorously defend
    the case.

In addition, we are involved in product liability claims and
    other legal proceedings generally incidental to our normal
    business activities. While the outcome of any of these
    additional claims and proceedings cannot be accurately
    predicted, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of any of
    these existing matters would have a material adverse effect on
    our business or financial condition.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.   

Not Applicable.

43

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Market
    Information  

Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the
    symbol  BIIB.  The following table shows the high and
    low sales price for our common stock as reported by The NASDAQ
    Stock Market for each quarter in the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Holders  

As of February 8, 2008, there were approximately 2,912
    stockholders of record of our common stock. In addition, as of
    February 8, 2008, 452 stockholders of record of Biogen,
    Inc. common stock have yet to exchange their shares of Biogen,
    Inc. common stock for our common stock as contemplated by the
    merger of Biogen, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or
    the Merger.

Dividends  

We have not paid cash dividends since our inception. We
    currently intend to retain all earnings, if any, for use in the
    expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate
    paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

We incorporate information regarding the securities authorized
    for issuance under our equity compensation plans into this
    section by reference from the section entitled  Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  in the proxy statement for
    our 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities  

None.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

A summary of issuer repurchase activity for 2007 is as follows:

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

44

Table of Contents   

(a)  

On October 13, 2006 the Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common
    stock. No purchases have been made under this authorization. The
    repurchased stock will provide us with authorized shares for
    general corporate purposes, such as common stock to be issued
    under our employee equity and stock purchase plans. This
    repurchase program does not have an expiration date. We publicly
    announced the repurchase program in our press release dated
    October 31, 2006, which was furnished to the SEC as
    Exhibit 99.1 of our current report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on October 31, 2006. 

(b)  

All of these shares are shares that were used by certain
    employees to pay the exercise price of their stock options in
    lieu of paying cash or utilizing our cashless option exercise
    program. 

(c)  

As more fully described in Note 20, Tender Offer, in the
    accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements in
    Part IV of this report on
     Form 10-K, 
    in July 2007 we consummated a tender offer announced on
    May 29, 2007 whereby we repurchased 56,424,155 shares
    of our common stock at a price of $53.00 per share. 

45

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Consolidated Financial Data   

The following financial data should be read in conjunction with
    our consolidated financial statements and related notes
    appearing elsewhere in this report on
     Form 10-K, 
    beginning on
     page F-1. 

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

(1)  

Included in costs and expenses in 2003 is a charge of
    $823.0 million for in-process research and development
    related to the Merger. 

(2)  

The results of operations of Biogen, Inc. were included from
    November 12, 2003, the date of the Merger. 

(3)  

Included in costs and expenses in 2005 is a charge of
    $118.1 million related to facility impairment charges. 

(4)  

Included in costs and expenses in 2006 is a charge of
    $330.5 million for in-process research and development and
    a net gain of $6.1 million on the settlement of license
    agreements associated with Fumapharm AG, or Fumapharm, and
    Fumedica GmbH, or Fumedica. 

(5)  

In connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-based
    Payments , or SFAS 123(R), we recorded the cumulative effect
    of an accounting change of $3.8 million, net, as of
    January 1, 2006. 

46

Table of Contents   

(6)  

Included in costs and expenses in 2007 is a charge of
    $18.4 million for in-process research and development
    related to the acquisition of Syntonix, Inc., and
    $64.3 million related to our collaborations with Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC and Neurimmune SubOne AG, which we consolidated
    under FASB Interpretation No. 46,  Consolidation of
    Variable Interest Entities , or FIN 46(R). The
    $64.3 million was offset by an equal amount of minority
    interest, resulting in no net impact to the results of the
    operations. 

(7)  

In July 2007, we purchased 56,424,155 shares of our common
    stock pursuant to a tender offer. We funded the transaction
    through existing cash and cash equivalents of
    $1,490.5 million and a short term loan of
    $1,500.0 million. 

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.   

Forward-Looking
    Information  

In addition to historical information, this report contains
    forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties
    that could cause our actual results to differ materially from
    those reflected in our forward-looking statements. You can
    identify our forward-looking statements by our use of words such
    as  anticipate,   believe, 
     estimate,   expect,   forecast, 
     intend,   plan,   project, 
     target,   will  and other words and terms
    of similar meaning. You also can identify them by the fact that
    they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    Reference is made in particular to forward-looking statements
    regarding the anticipated level of future product sales, royalty
    revenues, expenses and profits, regulatory approvals, our
    long-term growth, the development and marketing of additional
    products, the impact of competitive products, the anticipated
    outcome of pending or anticipated litigation and patent-related
    proceedings, our ability to meet our manufacturing needs, the
    value of investments in certain marketable securities, liquidity
    and capital resources and our plans to spend additional capital
    on external business development and research opportunities.
    Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our
    expectations and which could negatively impact our financial
    condition and results of operations are discussed in
    Item 1A in the section entitled  Risk Factors  in
    Part I of this report and elsewhere in this report. Unless
    required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly
    update any forward-looking statements.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our
    consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing
    elsewhere in this
     Form 10-K, 
    beginning on
     page F-1. 

Executive
    Summary  

Biogen Idec Inc. was formed in 2003 upon the acquisition of
    Biogen, Inc. by IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in a merger
    transaction, or the Merger. We are a global biotechnology
    company that creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas
    of high unmet medical needs. We have two licensed biological
    bulk-manufacturing facilities, including our large-scale
    manufacturing plant in Research Triangle Park, NC, which is one
    of the world s largest cell culture facilities. An
    additional large-scale manufacturing plant is under construction
    in Hiller d, Denmark. We maintain research centers of
    excellence in San Diego, CA and Cambridge, MA. We have
    additional offices in Canada, Brazil, Australia, Japan and
    throughout Europe, including our international headquarters in
    Zug, Switzerland and operate a global distribution network,
    which covers over 70 countries. We currently employ
    approximately 4,300 people worldwide.

Results for the year ended December 31, 2007 included total
    revenue of $3,171.6 million, net income of
    $638.2 million and diluted net income per share of $1.99.
    These results reflect an increase in revenue primarily
    attributable to the continued growth in TYSABRI revenue, an
    increase in RITUXAN revenues from our unconsolidated joint
    business arrangement as well as the impact of price increases on
    our AVONEX product. The effect of the increase in revenue was
    partially offset by an increase in research and development
    expense due to new and existing clinical trials and other
    projects and an increase in selling, general and administrative
    expense related to increased personnel to support ongoing
    TYSABRI and AVONEX sales.

In January 2008, we received notice from Icahn Partners LP and
    certain of its affiliates for the nomination of three
    individuals to our Board of Directors at the Company s 2008
    Annual Meeting. The notice also includes a proposal to amend the
    our bylaws to set the size of the Board at 12. Our Board of
    Directors will review the notice and consider it in light of the
    best interests of all shareholders of the Company.

47

Table of Contents   

In October 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors had
    authorized management to evaluate whether third parties would
    have an interest in acquiring us at a price and on terms that
    would represent a better value for our stockholders than having
    us continue to execute our strategy on a stand-alone basis. In
    December 2007, we announced that the board of directors had
    completed this evaluation, it resulted in no definitive offers
    to acquire the company and we will continue as an independent
    company.

In November 2007, we entered into an agreement with Neurimmune
    SubOne AG, or Neurimmune, for the worldwide development and
    commercialization of human antibodies for the treatment of
    Alzheimer s disease (AD). Neurimmune will conduct research
    to identify potential therapeutic antibodies and we will be
    responsible for the development and commercialization of all
    products. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid a
    $2.0 million upfront payment and could pay up to an
    additional $378.0 million if certain milestones are met, as
    well as a royalty on net sales of any products.

In August 2007, an agreement with Cardiokine Biopharma LLC
    became effective for the joint development of lixivaptan, an
    oral compound for the potential treatment of hyponatremia in
    patients with congestive heart failure. We will be responsible
    for the global commercialization of lixivaptan and Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC has an option for limited co-promotion in the
    United States. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid a
    $50.0 million upfront fee and could pay up to an additional
    $170.0 million if certain milestones are met.

In July 2007, we completed a tender offer in which we purchased
    56,424,155 shares of our common stock for a purchase price
    of $2,990.5 million. We funded the transaction in July 2007
    through existing cash and cash equivalents of
    $1,490.5 million and by obtaining a short-term loan for
    $1,500.0 million. We retired all of these shares in July
    2007.

In January 2007, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the
    stock of Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for total initial
    consideration of $44.4 million and contingent payments of
    up to $124.4 million, if certain milestones are achieved.

Marketed
    Products   

We currently have four products:

AVONEX   
    (interferon beta-1a);

RITUXAN   
    (rituximab);

TYSABRI   
    (natalizumab);

FUMADERM   
    (dimethylfumarate and monoethylfumarate salts)

In December 2007, we sold the U.S. marketing, sales, and
    manufacturing and development right of
    ZEVALIN   
    to Cell Therapeutics, Inc., or CTI, for an upfront purchase
    price of $10.0 million and up to an additional
    $20.0 million in milestone payments. In addition, we will
    receive royalty payments on future sales of ZEVALIN. As part of
    the overall agreement, we entered into a supply agreement with
    CTI to sell ZEVALIN product through 2014 and a related services
    and security agreement under which CTI has agreed to reimburse
    us for costs incurred in an ongoing randomized clinical trial
    for ZEVALIN with respect to aggressive non-Hodgkin s
    lymphoma, or NHL. The $10.0 million upfront payment will be
    recognized in our results of operations over the term of the
    supply agreement.

Through April 2006, we recorded product revenues from sales of
    AMEVIVE   
    (alefacept). In April 2006, we sold the worldwide rights to this
    product to Astellas Pharma US, Inc., or Astellas. We will
    continue to manufacture and supply this product to Astellas for
    a period of up to 11 years. Under the terms of the supply
    agreement, we charge Astellas fixed amounts based on volume.
    Such amounts will be recognized as corporate partner revenue and
    are not expected to be significant.

Most of our revenues are currently dependent on AVONEX, TYSABRI,
    and RITUXAN. In the near term, we are dependent on the continued
    sales growth of TYSABRI to grow our overall revenues. In the
    longer term, our revenue growth is dependent on the successful
    clinical development, regulatory approval and launch of current
    pipeline products and other in-licensed or acquired products and
    programs.

48

Table of Contents   

Continued growth of global AVONEX sales is primarily dependent
    on maintaining AVONEX s position as the most prescribed
    multiple sclerosis, or MS, therapy in the U.S. and growing
    AVONEX market share outside the U.S. In both the
    U.S. and globally, we face increasing competition in the MS
    market from currently marketed products and future products in
    late stage development. We continue to generate data showing
    AVONEX to be an effective and safe choice for MS patients and
    physicians.

The majority of RITUXAN sales are currently from use in the
    oncology setting. We believe there is additional room for
    RITUXAN sales growth in the immunology setting, where RITUXAN is
    currently indicated for patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis, or
    RA, with inadequate response to anti-tumor necrosis factor
    therapies, or TNF-IR RA patients. Additional immunology
    indications for RITUXAN that we are investigating include
    earlier stage RA patients with inadequate response to
    disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, or DMARD-IR patients, MS
    and lupus.

In July 2006, we began to ship TYSABRI in the U.S. in
    connection with the re-introduction and internationally for the
    first time. TYSABRI sales are currently for use in the relapsing
    remitting MS setting. Growth in TYSABRI revenue will be
    dependent on the generation of a larger and longer term safety
    database as well as continued acceptance by physicians and MS
    patients. In January 2008, the FDA approved TYSABRI as a
    treatment of certain patients with Crohn s disease.

Clinical
    Studies   

Over the past few years, we have incurred significant
    expenditures related to conducting clinical studies to develop
    new pharmaceutical products and exploring the utility of our
    existing products in treating disorders beyond those currently
    approved in their respective labels. For 2008, we expect to
    continue to incur significant levels of research and development
    expenditures. We have a number of pipeline products in late
    stage clinical trials, including over 15 pipeline products in
    Phase 2 or Phase 3 trials. Pipeline products for which we have
    entered or initiated Phase 3 trials include:

BG-12 for relapsing forms of MS;

Galiximab for NHL; and

RITUXAN for a number of indications, including chronic
    lymphocytic leukemia, RA, primary progressive MS and lupus
    nephritis.

In addition to the expense associated with these late stage
    trials, other pipeline products are in ongoing or are expected
    to enter proof of concept trials in 2008.

Business
    Development   

As part of our business strategy, we plan to consider and, as
    appropriate, make acquisitions of other businesses, products,
    product rights or technologies. Our cash reserves and other
    liquid assets may be inadequate to consummate such acquisitions
    and develop such products
     and/or 
    technologies, and it may be necessary for us to raise
    substantial additional funds in the future to complete future
    transactions. In addition, as a result of our acquisition
    efforts, we may experience significant charges to earnings for
    merger and related expenses that may include transaction costs,
    closure costs or acquired in-process research and development
    charges.

Other   

We may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly results,
    primarily based on the level and timing of:

product revenues;

cost of product sales;

collaboration revenues;

cost of clinical trials, regulatory approvals and product
    approvals;

marketing and other expenses;

49

Table of Contents   

manufacturing or supply disruptions; and

costs associated with the operations of recently-acquired
    businesses and technologies.

We expect to use our cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities for working capital and general corporate purposes,
    including the acquisition of businesses, products, product
    rights or technologies, as well as potential repayment of
    short-term debt. At this time, we cannot accurately predict the
    effect of certain developments on the rate of future revenue
    growth, such as the degree of market acceptance, the impact of
    competition, the effectiveness of our sales and marketing
    efforts and the outcome of our current efforts to develop,
    receive approval for and successfully launch our near-term
    product candidates.

Results
    of Operations  

Revenues   

Revenues were as follows (in millions):

Product
    Revenues   

Product revenues were as follows (in millions):

Cost of
    Sales  

Cost of sales includes the following (in millions):

50

Table of Contents   

Cost
    of Product Revenues   

Cost of product revenues, included in cost of sales, by product
    are as follows (in millions):

Included in cost of product revenues, other, for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 is idle capacity costs of approximately
    $41.7 million pertaining to our Hillerod and RTP facilities.

AVONEX   

Revenues from AVONEX were as follows (in millions):

For 2007 compared to 2006, U.S. sales of AVONEX increased
    $62.8 million, or 6.1%, primarily due to the impact of
    price increases offset by decreased product demand resulting in
    lower volume. For 2007 compared to 2006 and international sales
    of AVONEX increased $98.3 million, or 14.4%, primarily due
    to the impact of exchange rates and higher sales volume.

For 2006 compared to 2005, U.S. sales of AVONEX increased
    $83.5 million, or 8.9%, primarily due to the impact of
    price increases and a reduction in discounts associated with the
    introduction of the Medicare Part D prescription drug
    benefit. These increases were offset by lower volume. For 2006
    compared to 2005, international sales of AVONEX increased
    $80.1 million, or 13.3%, primarily due to increases in
    volume and price, including the impact of patient mix. Foreign
    exchange accounted for a 0.6% increase in reported revenues; on
    a local currency basis, international sales increased 12.7%.

We expect to face increasing competition in the MS marketplace
    in and outside the U.S. from existing and new MS
    treatments, including TYSABRI, which may impact sales of AVONEX.
    We expect future sales of AVONEX to be dependent to a large
    extent on our ability to compete successfully with the products
    of our competitors.

TYSABRI   

Revenues from TYSABRI were as follows (in millions):

51

Table of Contents   

Under the terms of a collaboration agreement with Elan
    Corporation plc, or Elan, we manufacture TYSABRI and collaborate
    with Elan on the product s marketing, commercial
    distribution and on-going development activities. We recognize
    revenue for sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. upon Elan s
    shipment of the product to third party distributors. We
    recognize revenue for sales of TYSABRI outside the U.S. at
    the time of product delivery to our customers.

In November 2004, TYSABRI was approved by the U.S. Food and
    Drug Administration, or FDA, as a treatment for relapsing forms
    of MS to reduce the frequency of clinical relapses. In February
    2005, in consultation with the FDA, we and Elan voluntarily
    suspended the marketing and commercial distribution of TYSABRI,
    and we informed physicians that they should suspend dosing of
    TYSABRI until further notification. In 2005, our net revenue
    associated with sales of TYSABRI was $4.7 million, which
    consisted of revenue of $15.1 million from sales that
    occurred prior to our voluntary suspension, offset by an
    allowance for sales returns of $10.4 million related to
    returns of product sold prior to the suspension.

On June 5, 2006, the FDA approved a supplemental Biologics
    License Application, or sBLA, for the reintroduction of TYSABRI
    as a monotherapy treatment for relapsing forms of MS to slow the
    progression of disability and reduce the frequency of clinical
    relapses. On June 29, 2006, we and Elan announced that the
    European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, had approved TYSABRI as a
    similar treatment. In July 2006, we began to ship TYSABRI in
    both the United States and Europe. In 2006, we recorded revenue
    on sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. and Europe relating to 2006
    activity of $11.9 million and $10.0 million,
    respectively. Prior to the suspension of TYSABRI in 2005, we
    shipped product to Elan in the U.S. and recognized revenue
    in accordance with the policy described above. As a result of
    the suspension of TYSABRI, we had deferred $14.0 million in
    revenue related to TYSABRI product that remained in Elan s
    ending inventory. This amount was paid by Elan during 2005 and
    was subsequently recognized as revenue during 2006, when the
    uncertainty about the ultimate disposition of the product was
    eliminated. In 2007, we have recorded revenue on sales of
    TYSABRI in the U.S. and Europe of $104.4 million and
    $125.5 million, respectively. The increase in 2007 sales
    over 2006 sales is primarily due to an increase in the number of
    patients using TYSABRI and increased volumes, as the product was
    being shipped for the entire 12 months during 2007.

During 2007 and 2006, we had product on hand that had been fully
    written-off in 2005 due to the uncertainties surrounding the
    TYSABRI suspension but which is available to fill future orders.
    As we sold TYSABRI in 2007 and 2006, we realized lower than
    normal cost of sales and, therefore, higher margins, as we
    shipped the inventory that had been previously written-off. For
    2007 and 2006, cost of sales was approximately
    $12.6 million and $2.6 million, respectively, lower
    due to the sale of TYSABRI that had been previously written-off.
    All TYSABRI inventory that had been previously written-off had
    been shipped as of December 31, 2007.

FUMADERM   

FUMADERM was produced by Fumapharm, which we acquired in June
    2006. In December 2006, we acquired the right to distribute
    FUMADERM in Germany from Fumedica, beginning on May 1,
    2007. In connection with the acquisition of the FUMADERM
    distribution rights in Germany, we committed to the repurchase
    of any inventory Fumedica had not sold by May 1, 2007. As a
    result of this provision, we deferred the recognition of revenue
    on shipments made to Fumedica through April 30, 2007. We
    resumed recognizing revenue on sales of FUMADERM into the German
    market in May 2007. Sales of FUMADERM for 2007 and 2006 were
    $21.5 million and $9.5 million, respectively. The
    increase in 2007 sales over 2006 sales is primarily due to
    increased volumes.

ZEVALIN   

In 2007, 2006 and 2005 sales of ZEVALIN were $16.9 million,
    $17.8 million and $20.7 million, respectively, of
    which $13.9 million, $16.4 million, and
    $19.4 million respectively, were generated in the
    U.S. The decrease in total ZEVALIN sales in 2007 compared
    to 2006 was primarily due to the reduction in sales and
    marketing efforts in 2007 as we prepared for the sale of our
    rights to market, sell, manufacture and develop ZEVALIN in the
    U.S., which was completed in December 2007.

52

Table of Contents   

AMEVIVE   

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, sales of AMEVIVE were $0.7 million,
    $11.5 million and $48.5 million, respectively, of
    which $0.3 million, $5.0 million and
    $34.9 million, respectively, were generated in the
    U.S. The decrease in total AMEVIVE sales for 2007 compared
    to 2006 and for 2006 compared to 2005 was due to the sale, in
    April 2006, of our worldwide rights and infrastructure related
    to sales, production, and marketing of AMEVIVE.

Although we sold the rights to this product, we continue to
    report a small amount of product revenues related to shipments
    made by certain of our overseas joint ventures, which we
    consolidate.

Provisions
    for Discounts and Allowances  

Revenues from product sales are recognized when product is
    shipped and title and risk of loss has passed to the customer,
    typically upon delivery. Revenues are recorded net of applicable
    allowances for trade term discounts, wholesaler incentives,
    Medicaid rebates, Veteran s Administration, or VA, rebates,
    managed care rebates, product returns, other applicable
    allowances and, in 2006 and 2005, patient assistance and patient
    replacement goods. The estimates we make with respect to these
    allowances represent significant judgments.

Effective January 1, 2007, we changed the manner in which
    we administer our patient assistance and patient replacement
    goods programs. Prior to January 1, 2007, AVONEX product
    shipped for these programs was invoiced and recorded as gross
    product revenue and an offsetting provision for discount and
    returns was recorded for expected credit requests from the
    distributor that administers these programs on our behalf.
    Effective January 1, 2007, we entered into a new
    arrangement with a distributor, which established a consignment
    sales model. Under the new sales model, gross revenue is not
    recorded for product shipped to satisfy these programs, and cost
    of sales is recorded when the product is shipped.

Provisions for discounts and allowances reduced gross product
    revenues as follows (in millions):

53

Table of Contents   

An analysis of the amount of, and change in, reserves is as
    follows (in millions):

Our product revenue reserves are based on estimates of the
    amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. These
    estimates take into consideration our historical experience,
    current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known
    market events and trends and forecasted customer buying
    patterns. If actual results vary, we may need to adjust these
    estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the period
    of the adjustment.

Product revenue reserves are categorized as follows: discounts,
    contractual adjustments and returns.

Discount reserves include trade term discounts, wholesaler
    incentives and, in 2006 and 2005, patient assistance. For 2007
    compared to 2006, discounts decreased $57.2 million, or
    55.6%, resulting from a $67.5 million reduction related to
    the change of patient assistance to a consignment model, offset
    by increases in trade term discounts and wholesaler incentives.
    For 2006 compared to 2005, discounts decreased
    $3.6 million, or 3.4%, reflecting lower amounts of AVONEX
    distributed through our patient assistance program.

Contractual adjustment reserves relate to Medicaid, VA and
    managed care rebates and other applicable allowances. For 2007
    compared to 2006, contractual adjustments increased
    $11.9 million, or 12.8%, primarily due to the impact of
    higher reserves for managed care (associated with higher level
    of activity with respect to rebates) and Medicaid and VA
    programs (associated with price increases). For 2006 compared to
    2005, contractual adjustments were consistent reflecting more
    activity in the managed care markets, offset by a reduction in
    Medicaid activity due to the introduction of Medicare
    Part D, the expanded prescription drug benefit program.

Product return reserves are established for returns made by
    wholesalers and our patient replacement goods program in 2006
    and 2005. In accordance with contractual terms, wholesalers are
    permitted to return product for reasons such as damaged or
    expired product. We also accept returns from our patients for
    various reasons. For 2007

54

Table of Contents   

compared to 2006, returns decreased $16.6 million, or
    42.9%, primarily due to a $15.0 million decrease related to
    the change to a consignment sales model for patient replacement
    goods. For 2006 compared to 2005, returns increased
    $12.7 million, or 48.8%, as a result of an adjustment of
    $6.9 million to increase reserve levels to correct prior
    period errors, and higher return experience in 2006. These
    increases were offset by the impact of returns made in
    connection with the suspension of TYSABRI in 2005.

Reserves for product returns are recorded in the period the
    related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to
    product sales. The majority of wholesaler returns are due to
    product expiration. Expired product return reserves are
    estimated through a comparison of historical return data to
    their related sales on a production lot basis. Historical rates
    of return are determined for each product and are adjusted for
    known or expected changes in the marketplace specific to each
    product.

Unconsolidated
    Joint Business Revenues  

We copromote RITUXAN in the U.S. in collaboration with
    Genentech, Inc., or Genentech, under a collaboration agreement
    between the parties. Under the collaboration agreement, we
    granted Genentech a worldwide license to develop, commercialize
    and market RITUXAN in multiple indications. In exchange for
    these worldwide rights, we have copromotion rights in the
    U.S. and a contractual arrangement under which Genentech
    shares a portion of the pretax U.S. copromotion profits of
    RITUXAN with us. This collaboration was created through a
    contractual arrangement, not through a joint venture or other
    legal entity. In June 2003, we amended and restated our
    collaboration agreement with Genentech to include the
    development and commercialization of one or more anti-CD20
    antibodies targeting B-cell disorders, in addition to RITUXAN,
    for a broad range of indications.

In the U.S., we contribute resources to selling and the
    continued development of RITUXAN. Genentech is responsible for
    worldwide manufacturing of RITUXAN. Genentech also is
    responsible for the primary support functions for the
    commercialization of RITUXAN in the U.S. including selling
    and marketing, customer service, order entry, distribution,
    shipping and billing. Genentech also incurs the majority of
    continuing development costs for RITUXAN. Under the arrangement,
    we have a limited sales force as well as limited development
    activity.

Under the terms of separate sublicense agreements between
    Genentech and F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., or Roche,
    commercialization of RITUXAN outside the U.S. is the
    responsibility of Roche, except in Japan where Roche copromotes
    RITUXAN in collaboration with Zenyaku Kogyo Co Ltd., or Zenyaku.
    There is no direct contractual arrangement between us and Roche
    or Zenyaku.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consists of our
    share of pretax copromotion profits, which is calculated by
    Genentech, and includes consideration of our RITUXAN-related
    sales force and development expenses, and royalty revenue from
    sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. by Roche and Zenyaku.
    Pre-tax copromotion profit consists of U.S. sales of
    RITUXAN to third-party customers net of discounts and allowances
    less the cost to manufacture RITUXAN, third-party royalty
    expenses, distribution, selling and marketing expenses, and
    joint development expenses incurred by Genentech and us.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist of the
    following (in millions):

55

Table of Contents   

Copromotion profits consist of the following (in millions):

Net sales of RITUXAN to third-party customers in the
    U.S. recorded by Genentech for 2007 were
    $2,284.8 million compared to $2,071.2 million in 2006
    and $1,831.5 million in 2005. The increase in 2007 from
    2006 was primarily due to increased unit sales in treatments of
    B-cell NHLs and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (an unapproved use
    of RITUXAN), increased utilization for RA and increases in the
    wholesale price of RITUXAN. The increase in 2006 from 2005 was
    primarily due to the approval by the FDA of RITUXAN for two new
    indications, RA and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and an
    increase in wholesale prices.

For 2007 compared to 2006, reimbursements of selling and
    development expenses decreased $2.6 million, or 4.2%. For
    2006 compared to 2005, such reimbursements increased
    $13.5 million, or 28.3%. This increase was primarily due to
    the expansion of the oncology sales force and development costs
    we incurred related to the development of RITUXAN for RA.

Our royalty revenue on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. is
    based on Roche and Zenyaku s net sales to third-party
    customers and is recorded on a cash basis. Royalty revenues in
    2007 compared to 2006 increased $56.8 million, or 29.3% due
    to increased sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. Royalty
    revenues in 2006 compared to 2005 increased $46.5 million,
    or 31.5%, primarily due to increased market penetration and an
    increase in prices. The royalty period with respect to all
    products is 11 years from the first commercial sale of such
    product on a country by country basis. RITUXAN was launched in
    1998 in most European countries and in 2001 in Japan.

Under the amended and restated collaboration agreement, our
    current pretax copromotion profit-sharing formula, which resets
    annually, is as follows:

Biogen Idec s Share 

Copromotion Operating Profits 

of Copromotion Profits 

First $50 million

30

%

Greater than $50 million

40

%

In 2007, 2006, and 2005, the 40% threshold was met during the
    first quarter.

For each calendar year or portion thereof following the approval
    date of the first new anti-CD20 product, the pretax copromotion
    profit-sharing formula for RITUXAN and other anti-CD20 products
    sold by us and Genentech will change. Additionally, under the
    amended and restated collaboration agreement, we will receive
    lower royalty revenue from Genentech on sales by Roche and
    Zenyaku of new anti-CD20 products, if and when commercially
    available, as compared to royalty revenue received on sales of
    RITUXAN. (See Note 16, Unconsolidated Joint Business
    Arrangement, for further detail).

Other
    Revenue  

Other revenues consist of the following (in millions):

56

Table of Contents   

Royalty
    Revenues   

We receive revenues from royalties on sales by our licensees of
    a number of products covered under patents that we control. Our
    royalty revenues on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. are
    included in revenues from unconsolidated joint business in the
    accompanying consolidated statements of income.

For 2007 compared to 2006, royalty revenues increased
    $15.9 million, or 18.4%, primarily due to an increase in
    sales levels of products under license partially offset by the
    expiration of royalties under certain contracts. For 2006
    compared to 2005, royalty revenue decreased $7.0 million,
    or 7.5%, primarily due to a decrease in sales levels of products
    under license and to the expiration of certain contracts.

We anticipate that total royalty revenues in future years will
    continue to represent a lower proportion of our total revenues.
    Royalty revenues may fluctuate as a result of fluctuations in
    sales levels of products sold by our licensees from quarter to
    quarter due to the timing and extent of major events such as new
    indication approvals or government-sponsored programs.

Corporate
    Partner Revenues   

Corporate partner revenues represent contract revenues and
    license fees.

Costs and
    Expenses  

Costs and expenses are as follows (in millions):

Inventory
    Write-Offs   

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value. If the actual
    net realizable value is less than that estimated by us, or if it
    is determined that inventory utilization will further diminish
    based on estimates of demand, additional inventory write-downs
    may be required. Additionally, our products are subject to
    strict quality control and monitoring which we perform
    throughout the manufacturing process. Periodically, certain
    batches or units of product may no longer meet quality
    specifications or may expire. As a result, included in product
    cost of revenues were write-downs of commercial inventory that
    did not meet quality specifications or that became obsolete due
    to expiration. In all cases product inventory was written-down
    to its estimated net realizable value.

We closely monitor levels of inventory in our distribution
    channel. At both December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had
    approximately 2 weeks of inventory with wholesalers in our
    distribution channel. The shelf life associated with our
    products is generally between 15 and 48 months, depending
    on the product. Obsolescence due to dating

57

Table of Contents   

expiration has not been a historical concern, given the rapidity
    in which our products move through the channel. Changes due to
    our competitors  price movements have not adversely
    affected us. We do not provide incentives to our distributors to
    assume additional inventory levels beyond what is customary in
    their ordinary course of business.

We have written-down the following inventory, which was charged
    to cost of sales (in millions):

The write-downs were the result of the following (in millions):

Research
    and Development Expenses   

Research and development expenses totaled $925.2 million in
    2007 compared to $718.4 million in 2006 and
    $747.7 million in 2005.

For 2007 compared to 2006, research and development expenses
    increased $206.8 million, or 28.8%, primarily due to
    approximately $65.5 million of expense for the development
    of lixivaptan, (including a $50 million upfront payment to
    Cardiokine Biopharma LLC), a $12.4 million increase for
    ADENTRI projects, a $32.6 million increase for lumiliximab
    projects, a $15.2 million increase for BG-12 projects, a
    $13.5 million increase for HSP90i projects, a
    $12.4 million increase for IGF-1R projects, a
    $27.6 million increase for baminercept-alfa (LTBR-Fc)
    projects and $18.4 million of research and development
    costs related to Syntonix projects.

For 2006 compared to 2005, research and development expenses
    decreased $29.3 million, or 3.9%, primarily due to a
    $61.5 million reduction in salary and benefits arising from
    headcount reductions in 2005, a $20.0 million decrease
    related to the NIMO facility that was sold in the second quarter
    of 2005, and a $23.0 million decrease for clinical trials,
    primarily related to TYSABRI and AMEVIVE. These decreases were
    offset by a $11.2 million increase for new collaborations
    during the year, a $10.8 million increase for higher
    clinical manufacturing, and the $51.5 million impact of
    share-based compensation recognized under Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards (revised 2004) No. 123R,
     Share-based Payments , or SFAS 123(R), in 2006.

We expect that research and development expenses will increase
    in 2008 for a number of reasons, including our expected clinical
    trial costs, costs incurred with our collaborative development
    efforts, and pursuit of additional research opportunities.

Selling,
    General and Administrative Expenses   

Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled
    $776.1 million in 2007 compared to $685.0 million in
    2006 and $644.8 million in 2005.

58

Table of Contents   

For 2007 compared to 2006, selling, general and administrative
    expenses increased $91.1 million, or 13.3%, primarily due
    to a $65.0 million increase in sales and marketing
    activities for TYSABRI, primarily in international sales and
    marketing, a $25.5 million net increase in salaries and
    benefits related to increased headcount in general and
    administrative personnel, a $19.0 million increase in fees
    and services related to general and administrative matters
    offset by a $12.1 million decrease in sales and marketing
    activities for ZEVALIN due to decreased commercial efforts due
    to the planned divestiture of this product line.

For 2006 compared to 2005, selling, general and administrative
    expenses increased $40.2 million, or 6.2%, primarily due to
    $21.5 million of higher expenses related to sales of
    RITUXAN in RA, $20.3 million of increased sales expenses
    for the re-launch of TYSABRI, $4.3 million of lower
    reimbursements related to collaboration agreements and
    $45.2 million of higher expenses related to share-based
    compensation recognized under SFAS 123(R) in 2006. These
    increases were offset by $31.0 million of lower expenses
    related to sales of AMEVIVE due to its divestiture and a
    $20.0 million decrease in expenses related to sales of
    ZEVALIN, due in part to the planned divestiture, and also due to
    the impact of a charge taken in 2005 related to a write-down of
    remaining prepaid expense associated with our arrangement with
    MDS Nordion.

We anticipate that total selling, general, and administrative
    expenses in 2008 will be higher than 2007 due to sales,
    marketing and other general and administrative expenses to
    primarily support AVONEX and TYSABRI, especially in the
    international market.

Severance
    and Other Restructuring Costs   

Severance and other restructuring costs totaled
    $1.8 million in 2007 as compared to $3.6 million in
    2006 and $31.4 million in 2005. These costs are included in
    selling, general and administrative expense in our consolidated
    statements of income. At December 31, 2007, there are no
    remaining material severance or restructuring accruals on our
    consolidated balance sheets.

For 2006, $3.6 million of restructuring charges were
    included in selling, general and administrative expenses,
    including $1.2 million in severance costs associated with
    the acquisition of Conforma during 2006 and $1.7 million
    related in headcount reductions related to the planned
    disposition of our ZEVALIN product line. Costs not yet paid as
    of December 31, 2006, were $2.1 million, and are
    included in accrued expenses and other on our consolidated
    balance sheet. See Note 22, Severance and Other
    Restructuring Costs, of the consolidated financial statements,
    for details on the change in reserve levels related to severance.

In September 2005, we consolidated or eliminated certain
    internal management layers and staff functions, resulting in a
    17% reduction of our workforce at that time. These adjustments
    took place across company functions, departments and sites, and
    were substantially implemented by the end of 2005. We recorded
    restructuring charges of $31.4 million in connection with
    these activities, of which $28.3 million related to
    severance and other employee termination costs, including health
    benefits, outplacement and bonuses. Other costs were
    $3.1 million and included write-downs of certain research
    assets that will no longer be utilized, consulting costs in
    connection with the restructuring effort, and costs related to
    the acceleration of restricted stock, offset by the reversal of
    previously recognized compensation due to unvested restricted
    stock cancellations.

Effective December 31, 2005, our former Executive Chairman
    and Chairman of the Board retired and resigned. The charges
    related to this retirement amounted to $7.1 million and
    were all paid in 2005.

We may have additional charges in future periods. The amount of
    those future charges cannot be determined at this time.

Amortization
    of Intangible Assets   

For 2007, 2006, and 2005, amortization expense was
    $257.5 million, $267.0 million and
    $302.3 million, respectively.

Our most significant intangible asset is the core technology
    related to our AVONEX product. Our amortization policy for our
    core technology intangible asset is based on the principles of
    Statement of Financial Standards No. 142,  Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets,  or SFAS 142, which requires
    the amortization of intangible assets to

59

Table of Contents   

reflect the pattern in which the economic benefits of the
    intangible asset are consumed. Every year during the third
    quarter we complete our long range planning cycle, which
    includes an analysis of the anticipated product sales of AVONEX.
    The results of this forecast serve as the basis for our
    assumptions used in the economic consumption amortization model
    for our core technology intangible asset. We also establish
    minimum annual amortization amounts to ensure amortization
    charges are not unreasonably deferred to future periods. See
    Note 1, Business Overview and Significant Accounting
    Policies, for a detailed description of our accounting policy
    for amortization of intangible assets.

For 2007 compared to 2006, amortization expense decreased
    $9.5 million, or 3.6%, primarily due to the changes in
    estimate of the future revenue of AVONEX, which serves as the
    basis in our calculation of economic consumption for core
    technology.

For 2006 compared to 2005, amortization expense decreased
    $35.3 million, or 11.7%, primarily due to the changes in
    estimate of the future revenue of AVONEX, which serves as the
    basis for our calculation of economic consumption for core
    technology. Additionally, in 2005, a $7.9 million
    impairment charge was recorded to write-down certain core
    technology intangible assets related to AVONEX to their fair
    value.

We review our intangible assets for impairment when events or
    changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an
    asset may not be recoverable. If future events or circumstances
    indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be
    recoverable, we may be required to record additional charges to
    our results of operations.

In-Process
    Research and Development (IPR D)   

IPR D charges totaled $84.2 million in 2007, compared
    with $330.5 million in 2006. No IPR D charges were
    taken in 2005.

During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded
    IPR D charges of $84.2 million. The principal
    components of this amount are as follows: $18.4 million
    related to the acquisition of Syntonix, approximately
    $30 million related to the collaboration with Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC, and $34.3 million related to the
    collaboration with Neurimmune. In 2006, we recorded
    $207.4 million and $123.1 million in IPR D
    related to the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, or Fumapharm, and
    Conforma, respectively. See Note 2, Acquisitions and
    Dispositions, and Note 15, Research Collaborations of the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cardiokine Biopharma LLC and Neurimmune are variable interest
    entities, as defined in FIN 46(R). The consolidation of
    these entities resulted in IPR D charges. The IPR D
    charges have been recorded as a component of operating income.
    However, because the IPR D charges relate to the fair value
    of the underlying technology retained by the parent companies of
    Cardiokine Biopharma LLC and Neurimmune, these amounts were
    allocated to the respective minority interests. Consequently,
    minority interest of $64.3 million was recorded as a
    component of non-operating income.

Facility
    Impairments and (Gain) Loss on Disposition, net   

In 2007, we sold approximately 28 acres of land in
    Oceanside, California for $16.5 million. We recorded a
    pre-tax gain of approximately $7.2 million on the sale,
    which is included in other income (expense) on the accompanying
    consolidated statement of income, as this land was not utilized
    in our operations.

In December 2006, we completed the sale of one of the buildings
    in our Cambridge, Massachusetts facility, known as Bio 1.
    Proceeds from the sale were approximately $39.5 million. We
    recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $15.6 million on
    the sale. We continued to occupy a minor portion of the building
    under a leasing arrangement. In February 2006, we sold our
    clinical manufacturing facility in Oceanside, California, known
    as NICO. The assets associated with the facility were included
    in assets held for sale on our consolidated balance sheet as of
    December 31, 2005. Total consideration was
    $29.0 million. In 2005, we recorded impairment charges
    totaling $28.0 million to reduce the carrying value of NICO
    to its net realizable value. No additional loss resulted from
    completion of the sale.

In June 2005, we sold our large-scale biologics manufacturing
    facility in Oceanside, California, known as NIMO, along with
    approximately 60 acres of real property located in
    Oceanside, California upon which NIMO is

60

Table of Contents   

located, together with improvements, related property rights,
    and certain personal property intangibles and contracts at or
    related to the real property. Total consideration for the sale
    was $408.1 million. The loss from this transaction was
    $83.5 million which consisted primarily of the write-down
    of NIMO to net selling price, sales and transfer taxes, and
    other associated transaction costs. After our voluntary
    suspension of TYSABRI, we reconsidered our construction plans
    and determined that we would proceed with the bulk manufacturing
    component of our large-scale biologic manufacturing facility in
    Hiller d, Denmark, but determined that we would no longer
    proceed with the fill-finish component of the facility. As a
    result, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately
    $6.2 million in 2005 related to the fill-finish component
    that had previously been capitalized.

Gain
    on Settlement of License Agreements, net   

In 2006, we recorded a net gain on settlement of license
    agreements, net of $6.1 million.

Fumapharm  

During 2006, we recorded a gain of $34.2 million coincident
    with the acquisition of Fumapharm in accordance with
     EITF 04-1, 
     Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between the Parties
    to a Business Combination,  or
     EITF 04-1. 
    The gain related to the settlement of a preexisting
    collaboration agreement between Fumapharm and us. The
    collaboration agreement was entered into in October 2003 and
    required payments to Fumapharm of certain royalty amounts. The
    market rate for such payments was higher at the acquisition
    date, primarily due to the increased technical feasibility of
    BG-12. The gain relates to the difference between the royalty
    rates at the time the agreement was entered into as compared to
    the rates at the time the agreement was effectively settled by
    virtue of our acquisition of Fumapharm.

Fumedica  

During 2006, we recorded a charge of $28.1 million in
    connection with a settlement agreement with Fumedica
    Arzneimittel AG and Fumedica Arzneimittel GmbH, collectively
    Fumedica. The charge related to the settlement of the agreement
    with Fumedica under which we were contingently obligated to make
    royalty payments with respect to a successful launch of BG-12
    for psoriasis in Germany. Under the terms of the settlement
    agreement, we will not be required to make any royalty payments
    to Fumedica if BG-12 is successfully launched for psoriasis in
    Germany. The $28.1 million was expensed in 2006, as it
    related to a product that has not reached technological
    feasibility.

Share-based
    Compensation Expense   

In the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded
    share-based compensation expense of $123.1 million
    associated with SFAS 123(R). In the year ended
    December 31, 2006, we recorded share-based compensation
    expense of $126.8 million associated with SFAS 123(R),
    which is net of a cumulative effect pre-tax adjustment of
    $5.6 million, or $3.8 million after-tax. The
    cumulative effect results from the application of an estimated
    forfeiture rate for current and prior period unvested restricted
    stock awards.

Our share-based compensation programs consist of share-based
    awards granted to employees including stock options, restricted
    stock, performance share units and restricted stock units, or
    RSUs, as well as our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP.

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123(R).
    This Statement requires compensation cost relating to
    share-based awards to be recognized in the financial statements
    using a fair-value measurement method. Under the fair value
    method, the estimated fair value of awards is charged against
    income over the requisite service period, which is generally the
    vesting period. We selected the modified prospective method as
    prescribed in SFAS 123(R) and, therefore, prior periods
    were not restated. Under the modified prospective method, this
    Statement was applied to awards granted subsequent to
    January 1, 2006, as well as to the unvested portion of
    previously granted equity-based awards for which the requisite
    service had not been rendered as of December 31, 2005. The
    fair value of performance based stock units is based on the
    market price of our stock on the date of grant and assumes that
    the performance criteria will be met and the target payout level
    will be achieved. Compensation expense is adjusted for
    subsequent changes in the outcome of performance-related
    conditions until the vesting date.

61

Table of Contents   

Other
    Income (Expense), Net   

Other income (expense), net, is as follows (in millions):

Interest
    Income   

For 2007 compared to 2006, interest income increased
    $2.4 million, or 2.4%, primarily due to higher yields
    offset by a reduction in cash and cash equivalents due to the
    funding of our tender offer in July 2007. For 2006 compared to
    2005, interest income increased $38.5 million, or 61.4%,
    primarily due to higher levels of cash and marketable securities.

Minority
    Interest   

For 2007 compared to 2006, minority interest increased
    $65.2 million, primarily due to the consolidation of
    Cardiokine Biopharma LLC in August 2007, and Neurimmune in
    November 2007. The minority interest related to Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC and Neurimmune offset an equal charge to
    IPR D, which resulted in no net impact to our results of
    operations for these IPR D and minority interest charges.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense was $40.5 million, $0.9 million and
    $9.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

For 2007 compared to 2006, interest expense increased
    $39.6 million, primarily due to the increased debt levels
    relating to our tender offer funded in July 2007 (see
    Note 20, Tender Offer). For 2006 compared to 2005, interest
    expense decreased $8.7 million, or 90.6%, primarily due to
    the repurchase of our senior notes due in 2032 in the second
    quarter of 2005.

Other,
    net   

Other, net, included the following (in millions):

The impairment of investments is primarily due to the other than
    temporary decline in value in our strategic investments
    portfolio. We may incur additional impairment charges on these
    investments in the future.

62

Table of Contents   

Income
    Tax Provision  

Our effective tax rate was 29.9%, 56.6% and 37.3% on pre-tax
    income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. Our effective tax rate for 2007 was lower
    than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the effect of
    lower income tax rates (less than the U.S. statutory tax
    rate) in certain
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    in which we operate. Our effective rate for 2006 was higher than
    the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the write-off of
    non-deductible IPR D in connection with the acquisitions of
    Conforma and Fumapharm, (offset by the gain on settlement of the
    Fumapharm license agreement), and the impact of
    acquisition-related intangible amortization related to foreign
    jurisdictions and state taxes, offset by the effect of lower
    income tax in certain
     non-U.S. jurisdictions. 
    Our effective tax rate for 2005 varied from the
    U.S. federal statutory rate and prior years primarily due
    to the acquisition-related intangible amortization arising from
    purchase accounting related to foreign jurisdictions and a
    one-time tax charge related to the repatriation of a portion of
    the accumulated earnings of our foreign subsidiary offset, in
    part, by the effect of lower income tax rates (less than 35%
    U.S. statutory tax rate) in certain
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    in which we operate, tax credits allowed for research and
    experimentation expenses in the U.S., and the new domestic
    manufacturing deduction.

Financial
    Condition and Liquidity  

Our financial condition is summarized as follows (in millions):

The reduction in working capital at December 31, 2007 as
    compared to December 31, 2006, primarily reflects payments
    made to fund our tender offer as discussed in Note 20,
    Tender Offer, offset by cash generated from operations in 2007.

Until required for use in the business, we invest our cash
    reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial
    paper, corporate notes, foreign and U.S. government
    instruments, asset backed securities and other readily
    marketable debt instruments in accordance with our investment
    policy as described in Note 1, Business Overview and
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Our investments are
    highly rated and, to date, have not been materially impacted by
    the disruption of capital markets in 2007. Additionally, we lend
    our marketable securities to third parties to enhance investment
    returns through our securities lending program as described in
    Note 1, Business Overview and Significant Accounting
    Policies.

We have financed our operating and capital expenditures
    principally through cash flows from our operations. We financed
    the tender offer through issuance of short-term debt and use of
    existing cash. We expect to refinance our short-term debt
    through the offering of long-term debt securities in 2008. We
    expect to finance our current and planned operating requirements
    principally through cash from operations, as well as existing
    cash resources including liquidation of marketable securities.
    We believe that these funds will be sufficient to meet our
    operating requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we
    may, from time to time, seek additional funding through a
    combination of new collaborative agreements, strategic alliances
    and additional equity and debt financings or from other sources.

See Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors  of this form 10-K
    for risk factors that could negatively impact our cash position
    and ability to fund future operations.

63

Table of Contents   

Operating
    activities   

Cash provided by operations is primarily driven by our net
    income and adjusted for non-cash charges. In 2007, 2006 and
    2005 net cash provided by operations was
    $1,020.6 million, $841.3 million and
    $889.5 million, respectively.

Cash provided by operations increased $179.4 million, or
    21.3%, in 2007 compared to 2006, is primarily due to higher
    earnings. Movements in working capital accounts, which were a
    use of funds of $77.9 million in 2007 as compared to a use
    of funds of $103.3 million in 2006, also contributed to
    this increase.

For 2006 compared to 2005, net cash provided by operations
    decreased $48.2 million or 5.4%. The decrease in cash
    provided by operations is primarily attributable to movements in
    working capital accounts which were a use of funds of
    $103.3 million in 2006 as compared to a source of funds of
    $139.8 million in 2005.

Investing
    activities   

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, net cash provided by (used in) investing
    activities was $(286.6) million, $(599.8) million and
    $417.7 million, respectively.

In 2007, net proceeds from sales of marketable securities were
    $209.0 million, which was used to partially fund the tender
    offer described in Note 20, Tender Offer. Purchases of
    property, plant and equipment totaled $284.1 million in
    2007. Payments made for acquisitions were $95.8 million in
    2007, which primarily related to our acquisition of Syntonix for
    $42.3 million, and our collaboration payments to Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC for $50.0 million and Neurimmune of
    $2.0 million. The change in balance of collateral received
    under securities lending is reflected as a use of cash in
    investing activities offset by a source of cash from financing
    activities. Additionally, in 2007 we sold our position in a
    strategic investment for $99.5 million.

In 2006, net cash used to purchase marketable securities was
    $162.8 million. Purchases of property, plant and equipment
    totaled $198.3 million for 2006. Payments made for
    acquisitions were $363.3 million in 2006, which related to
    our acquisitions of Fumapharm and Conforma. Proceeds from the
    sale of product lines were $59.8 million in 2006, which
    related to the sale of AMEVIVE.

In 2005 our major sources of cash consisted of
    $408.1 million of proceeds from the sale of our Oceanside,
    California manufacturing facility. Additionally, approximately
    $447.9 million of proceeds was provided from net sales of
    marketable securities, which was used to fund the repurchase of
    our senior notes, as discussed below. Purchases of property
    plant and equipment totaled $318.4 million, including our
    research and development and administration campus in
    San Diego, and our manufacturing facility in Oceanside.
    Additionally, in 2005, we purchased positions in strategic
    investments of $119.9 million relating to PDL BioPharma
    Inc., Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and other strategic
    investments.

Financing
    activities   

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, net cash used in financing activities
    was $735.2 million, $148.4 million and
    $948.5 million, respectively.

In 2007, the primary use of cash related to the repurchase of
    treasury stock via the tender offer of $2,990.5 million.
    This repurchase was partially funded with cash proceeds from a
    short-term note of $1,500.0 million. This transaction is
    described in Note 20, Tender Offer. Additionally, cash
    proceeds from issuance of stock for our share based compensation
    arrangements were $489.2 million, which was primarily
    attributable to the exercise of stock options and participation
    in our ESPP plan. The charge in balance of collateral received
    under securities lending is reflected as a use of cash in
    investing activities offset by a source of cash from financing
    activities.

In 2006, the primary use of cash was $320.3 million for the
    purchase of treasury stock, offset by $147.0 million in
    proceeds from issuance of stock for our share based compensation
    arrangements.

The primary uses of cash in 2005 were for the repurchase of
    long-term debt of $746.4 million and repurchases of
    treasury stock of $322.6 million, offset by
    $119.6 million cash proceeds from the issuance of stock for
    our share based compensation arrangements.

64

Table of Contents   

Borrowings   

At December 31, 2007, we have a note payable of
    approximately $44.6 million relating to the acquisition of
    distribution rights of FUMADERM. Additionally, one of our
    international joint ventures maintained a loan that had a
    carrying value of $17.5 million as of December 31,
    2007.

In January and July 2007, we issued a total of 3.0 million
    shares of common stock for $75.0 million in face value and
    $39.0 million in carrying value of our 2019 subordinated
    notes to the holders that elected to convert into common stock.

In June 2007, in connection with the tender offer described in
    Note 20, Tender Offer, we entered into a
    $1,500.0 million term loan facility, which is due in June
    2008. On July 2, 2007, in connection with the funding of
    the tender offer, we borrowed the full $1,500.0 million
    available under this facility. We expect to repay this term loan
    facility in 2008 with proceeds from an offering of long term
    debt securities.

In June 2007, we also entered into a five year
    $400.0 million Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility,
    which we may use for working capital and general corporate
    purposes. As of December 31, 2007, there were no borrowings
    outstanding under this credit facility.

In May 2007, holders of the senior notes due 2032 with an
    aggregate principal amount at maturity of $10.1 million,
    exercised their right to require us to repurchase the notes. We
    paid $6.6 million in cash to repurchase substantially all
    of the senior notes.

Tender
    Offer   

On June 27, 2007, pursuant to the terms of a modified
     Dutch Auction  tender offer, we accepted for payment
    56,424,155 shares of our common stock at a price of $53.00
    per share for a purchase price of $2,990.5 million. We
    funded the tender offer through existing cash and cash
    equivalents of $1,490.5 million and $1,500.0 million
    by our term loan facility as described in Note 7,
    Indebtedness. All of the shares repurchased were retired in July
    2007.

Commitments   

In August 2004, we restarted construction of our large-scale
    biologic manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark. In
    March 2005, after our voluntary suspension of TYSABRI, we
    reconsidered our construction plans and determined that we would
    proceed with the bulk-manufacturing component, add a labeling
    and packaging component but would no longer proceed with the
    fill-finish component of that facility. As of December 31,
    2007, we have substantially completed this phase of the project,
    including the partial construction of the bulk manufacturing
    facility and installation of major equipment. We are proceeding
    with the second phase of the project, the completion of a large
    scale bulk manufacturing component and construction of a
    warehouse. In October 2006, our Board of Directors approved this
    phase of the project, which is expected to cost an additional
    $225.0 million. As of December 31, 2007, we had
    contractual commitments of approximately $207 million for
    the second phase, of which approximately $117 million had
    been paid. This second phase of the project is expected to be
    licensed for commercial production in 2010.

Share
    Repurchase Programs   

In October 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common
    stock. This repurchase program expired October 4, 2006.
    During 2006, we repurchased 7.5 million shares at a cost of
    $320.3 million. During 2005, we repurchased
    7.5 million shares at a cost of $324.3 million under
    this program. In October 2006, our Board of Directors authorized
    the repurchase of up to an additional 20.0 million shares
    of our common stock. This repurchase program does not have an
    expiration date. No shares have been repurchased under the
    program as of December 31, 2007.

Contractual
    Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

At December 31, 2007, we have funding commitments of up to
    approximately $28.3 million as part of our investment in
    biotechnology oriented venture capital funds. In addition, we
    have committed to make potential

65

Table of Contents   

future milestone payments to third-parties of up to
    approximately $1.55 billion as part of our various
    collaborations including licensing and development programs.
    Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable
    only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory
     and/or 
    commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these
    milestones had not occurred as of December 31, 2007, such
    contingencies have not been recorded in our financial
    statements. We expect to make approximately $52 million of
    milestone payments in 2008.

At December 31, 2007, we have several clinical studies in
    various clinical trial stages. Our most significant clinical
    trial expenditures are to clinical research organizations, or
    CROs. The contracts with CROs are generally cancellable at our
    option. We have recorded accrued expenses of $15.5 million
    recorded in accrued expenses on our consolidated balance sheet
    for work done by CROs at December 31, 2007. We have
    approximately $254 million in cancellable future
    commitments based on existing CRO contracts at December 31,
    2007.

We do not have any significant relationships with entities often
    referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities,
    which would have been established for the purpose of
    facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not
    exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that
    could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. We
    consolidate entities within the scope of FIN 46(R) if we
    are the primary beneficiary.

The following summarizes our contractual obligations (excluding
    funding and contingent milestone payments as described above and
    construction commitments disclosed above under
     Commitments ) at December 31, 2007, and the
    effects such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity
    and cash flows in future periods (in millions):

This table also excludes any liabilities pertaining to uncertain
    tax positions as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the
    period of cash settlement with the respective taxing
    authorities. In connection with the adoption of FASB
    Interpretation No. 48  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109 , or FIN 48, we reclassified approximately
    $113 million in reserves for uncertain tax positions from
    current taxes payable to long term liabilities. At
    December 31, 2007, we have approximately $253 million
    of long term liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions.

Legal
    Matters  

See Note 18, Litigation, to the consolidated financial
    statements for a discussion of legal matters as of
    December 31, 2007.

Critical
    Accounting Estimates  

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and
    results of operations is based on our financial statements,
    which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
    The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
    make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
    of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent
    assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements
    and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
    reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its
    critical estimates and judgments, including, among others, those
    related to revenue recognition, investments, inventory, research
    and development expenses, purchase accounting, goodwill
    impairment, stock-based compensation, and income taxes. Those
    critical estimates and assumptions are based on

66

Table of Contents   

our historical experience, our observance of trends in the
    industry, and various other factors that are believed to be
    reasonable under the circumstances and form the basis for making
    judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities
    that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
    may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
    conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting estimates affect
    our more significant judgments and estimates used in the
    preparation of our consolidated financial statements:

Revenue
    Recognition and Accounts Receivable  

Product
    Revenues   

We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met:
    persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has
    occurred or services have been rendered; the seller s price
    to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is
    reasonably assured.

Revenues are recorded net of applicable reserves for trade term
    discounts, wholesaler incentives, Medicaid rebates, VA rebates,
    managed care rebates, product returns and other applicable
    allowances. Our product revenue reserves are based on estimates
    of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales.
    These estimates take into consideration our historical
    experience, current contractual and statutory requirements,
    specific known market events and trends and forecasted customer
    buying patterns. If actual results vary, we may need to adjust
    these estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the
    period of the adjustment. These estimates we make with respect
    to these allowances represent the most significant judgments
    that we make with regard to revenue recognition.

Royalties   

We receive royalty revenues under license agreements with a
    number of third parties that sell products based on technology
    developed by us or to which we have rights. The license
    agreements provide for the payment of royalties to us based on
    sales of the licensed product. We record these revenues based on
    estimates of the sales that occurred during the relevant period.
    The relevant period estimates of sales are based on interim data
    provided by licensees and analysis of historical royalties paid
    to us, adjusted for any changes in facts and circumstances, as
    appropriate. We maintain regular communication with our
    licensees in order to gauge the reasonableness of our estimates.
    Differences between actual royalty revenues and estimated
    royalty revenues are reconciled and adjusted for in the period
    which they become known, typically the following quarter.
    Historically, adjustments have not been material based on actual
    amounts paid by licensees.

Investments   

We invest in various types of securities, including:

short-term and long-term marketable securities, principally
    corporate notes and government securities, in which our excess
    cash balances are invested;

equity securities in certain publicly-traded biotechnology
    companies with which we have collaborative agreements; and

equity securities of certain companies whose securities are not
    publicly traded and where fair value is not readily available.

These investments are accounted for in accordance with Statement
    of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115,  Accounting
    for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities , or
    SFAS 115, or APB No. 18,  The Equity Method of
    Accounting for Investments in Common , or APB 18, as
    appropriate.

In accounting for investments, we evaluate if a decline in the
    fair value of a marketable security below our cost basis is
     other-than-temporary, 
    and if so, we record an impairment charge in our consolidated
    statement of income. The factors that we consider in our
    assessments include the fair market value of the security, the
    duration of the security s decline, prospects for the
    investee, including favorable clinical trial results, new
    product initiatives, new

67

Table of Contents   

collaborative agreements and our intent and ability to hold to
    recovery. The determination of whether a loss is other than
    temporary is highly judgmental and can have a material impact on
    our results.

Inventory   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost
    determined under the
     first-in, 
    first-out, or FIFO, method. Included in inventory are raw
    materials used in the production of pre-clinical and clinical
    products, which are expensed as research and development costs
    when consumed.

Our policy is to capitalize inventory costs associated with our
    products prior to regulatory approval, when, based on
    management s judgment, future commercialization is
    considered probable and the future economic benefit is expected
    to be realized. Our accounting policy addresses the attributes
    that should be considered in evaluating whether the costs to
    manufacture a product have met the definition of an asset as
    stipulated in FASB Concepts Statement No. 6,  Elements of
    Financial Statements   A Replacement of FASB Concepts
    No. 3 , or FASB Concepts Statement No. 6. We assess
    the regulatory approval process and where the particular product
    stands in relation to that approval process including any known
    constraints and impediments to approval, including safety,
    efficacy and potential labeling restrictions. We evaluate our
    anticipated research and development initiatives and constraints
    relating to the product and the indication in which it will be
    used. We consider our manufacturing environment including our
    supply chain in determining logistical constraints that could
    possibly hamper approval or commercialization. We consider the
    shelf life of the product in relation to the expected timeline
    for approval and we consider patent related or contract issues
    that may prevent or cause delay in commercialization. We are
    sensitive to the significant commitment of capital to scale up
    production and to launch commercialization strategies. We also
    base our judgment on the viability of commercialization, trends
    in the marketplace and market acceptance criteria. Finally, we
    consider the reimbursement strategies that may prevail with
    respect to the product and assess the economic benefit that we
    are likely to realize.

There is a risk inherent in these judgments and any changes we
    make in these judgments may have a material impact on our
    results in future periods.

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value. If the actual
    net realizable value is less than that estimated by us, or if
    there are any further determinations that inventory will not be
    marketable based on estimates of demand, additional inventory
    write-downs will be required. Additionally, our products are
    subject to strict quality control and monitoring throughout the
    manufacturing process. Periodically, certain batches or units of
    product may no longer meet quality specifications or may expire.
    As a result, included in costs of goods sold are write-downs of
    commercial inventory that do not meet quality specifications or
    became obsolete due to expiration.

Research
    and Development Expenses   

Research and development expenses consist of upfront fees and
    milestones paid to collaborators and expenses incurred in
    performing research and development activities including
    salaries and benefits, facilities expenses, overhead expenses,
    clinical trial and related clinical manufacturing expenses,
    contract services and other outside expenses. Research and
    development expenses are expensed as incurred. The timing of
    upfront fees and milestone payments in the future may cause
    variability in future research and development expense. Clinical
    trial expenses include expenses associated with contract
    research organizations, or CROs. The invoicing from CROs for
    services rendered can lag several months. We accrue the cost of
    services rendered in connection with CRO activities based on our
    estimate of site management, monitoring costs, and project
    management costs. We maintain regular communication with our CRO
    vendors to gauge the reasonableness of our estimates.
    Differences between actual clinical trial expenses and estimated
    clinical trial expenses recorded have not been material and are
    adjusted for in the period in which they become known.

68

Table of Contents   

Valuation
    of Acquired Intangible Assets and In-process Research and
    Development Expenses   

We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, intangible
    assets primarily through the acquisition of biotechnology
    companies. These intangible assets primarily consist of
    technology associated with human therapeutic products and
    in-process product candidates. When significant identifiable
    intangible assets are acquired, an independent third-party
    valuation firm is generally engaged to assist in determining the
    fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date.
    Management will determine the fair value of less significant
    identifiable intangible assets as acquired. Discounted cash flow
    models are typically used in these valuations, and these models
    require the use of significant estimates and assumptions
    including but not limited to:

estimating the timing of and expected costs to complete the
    in-process projects;

projecting regulatory approvals;

estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from
    completed products and in-process projects; and

developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by
    project.

We believe the fair values assigned to the intangible assets
    acquired are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions
    given available facts and circumstances as of the acquisition
    dates.

FIN 46(R)   

Under FIN 46(R) , we consolidate variable interest
    entities for which we are the primary beneficiary. In
    determining whether we are the primary beneficiary, we consider
    a number of factors, including determining the expected losses
    and residual returns of the technologies being developed
    pursuant to collaborations and other economic risk and reward of
    such collaborations. Discounted cash flow models are typically
    used in these analyses and these models require the use of
    significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited
    to:

assuming that the research and development efforts will result
    in an approved commercial product;

estimating the timing of and expected costs to complete the
    in-process projects;

projecting timing of regulatory approvals;

estimating future cash inflows from product sales or funding
    from partners resulting from completed products and in-process
    projects; and

developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by
    project.

For such consolidated entities that we own less than a 100%
    interest, we record minority interest in our statement of income
    for the current results allocated to the outside equity
    interests. FIN 46(R) impacts the way we account for certain
    collaborations and future events may result in our consolidation
    of companies or related entities with which we have a
    collaborative arrangement. The consolidation of variable
    interest entities may have a material effect on our financial
    condition
     and/or 
    results of operation in future periods.

Goodwill   

We annually assess our goodwill balance to determine whether any
    impairment in this asset may exist and, if so, the extent of
    such impairment. To do this, in the case of goodwill we estimate
    the fair value of each of our reporting units and compare it to
    the book value of their net assets. Calculating fair value
    involves identifying future cash flows, which requires that we
    make a number of critical legal, economic, market and business
    assumptions that reflect our best estimates as of the testing
    date. We believe the methods we use to determine these
    underlying assumptions and estimates are reasonable.
    Notwithstanding this, our assumptions and estimates may differ
    significantly from actual results, or circumstances could change
    that would cause us to conclude that an impairment now exists or
    that we previously understated the extent of impairment.

69

Table of Contents   

Share-based
    Compensation   

We make certain assumptions in order to value and expense our
    share-based compensation. In connection with valuing stock
    options and our employee stock purchase plan, we use the
    Black-Scholes model, which requires us to estimate certain
    subjective assumptions. The key assumptions we make are: the
    expected volatility of our stock; the expected term of the
    award; and the expected forfeiture rate. In connection with our
    restricted stock programs, we make assumptions principally
    related to the forfeiture rate.

We review our valuation assumptions periodically and, as a
    result, we may change our valuation assumptions used to value
    share-based awards granted in future periods. Such changes may
    lead to a significant change in the expense we recognize in
    connection with share-based payments.

Income
    Taxes   

In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate
    our income tax liability in each of the jurisdictions in which
    we operate by estimating our actual current tax expense together
    with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing
    treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes.
    These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities,
    which are included in our consolidated balance sheets.
    Significant management judgment is required in assessing the
    realizability of our deferred tax assets. In performing this
    assessment, we consider whether it is more likely than not that
    some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
    realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is
    dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during
    the periods in which those temporary differences become
    deductible. In making this determination, under the applicable
    financial accounting standards, we are allowed to consider the
    scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future
    taxable income, and the effects of viable tax planning
    strategies. Our estimates of future taxable income include,
    among other items, our estimates of future income tax deductions
    related to the exercise of stock options. In the event that
    actual results differ from our estimates, we adjust our
    estimates in future periods we may need to establish a valuation
    allowance, which could materially impact our financial position
    and results of operations.

Adoption
    of FASB Interpretation No. 48   

Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48.
    FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
    taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in
    accordance with FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for
    Income Taxes,  or SFAS 109. FIN 48 also prescribes
    a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the
    financial statement recognition and measurement of each tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As a
    result of the adoption of FIN 48, we recognized a reduction
    in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of
    $14.2 million, which was recorded as a $1.8 million
    reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of our accumulated
    deficit, a $9.1 million reduction in goodwill and a
    $3.3 million increase in our deferred tax liability.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in millions):

Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at
    December 31, 2007 and January 1, 2007, are
    $110.5 million and $98.2 million (net of the federal
    benefit on state issues), respectively, of unrecognized tax
    benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective income
    tax rate in any future periods.

New
    Accounting Standards  

See Note 26, New Accounting Pronouncements, for a
    discussion of new accounting standards.

70

Table of Contents   

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting  

Controls
    and Procedures   

We have carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and the
    participation of our management, including our principal
    executive officer and principal financial officer, of the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the
    Securities Exchange Act), as of December 31, 2007. Based
    upon that evaluation, our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer concluded that, as of the end of
    that period, our disclosure controls and procedures are
    effective in providing reasonable assurance that (a) the
    information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that
    we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded,
    processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
    specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and (b) such
    information is accumulated and communicated to our management,
    including our principal executive officer and principal
    financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
    regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating our
    disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized
    that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed
    and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving
    the desired control objectives, and our management necessarily
    was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the
    cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us
    to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls
    over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and
    to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of
    our internal control over financial reporting in all annual
    reports. There were no changes in our internal control over
    financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31,
    2007 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
    materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management s
    Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting   

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
    control over financial reporting is defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act as a process designed by, or
    under the supervision of, a company s principal executive
    and principal financial officers and effected by a
    company s board of directors, management and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. Our internal control
    over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
    that:

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
    detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
    dispositions of our assets;

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
    that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in
    accordance with authorizations of our management and
    directors; and

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our
    assets that could have a material effect on the financial
    statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007.
    In making this assessment, management used the criteria set
    forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework.

Based on our assessment, our management has concluded that, as
    of December 31, 2007, our internal control over financial
    reporting is effective based on those criteria.

71

Table of Contents   

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2007 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included
    herein.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

We have operations in Europe, Japan, Australia and Canada in
    connection with the sale of AVONEX and TYSABRI. We also receive
    royalty revenues based on worldwide product sales by our
    licensees and through Genentech on sales of RITUXAN outside of
    the U.S. As a result, our financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows can be affected by market fluctuations
    in foreign currency exchange rates (primarily Euro, Danish
    krone, Swedish krona, British pound, Japanese yen, Canadian
    dollar and Swiss franc).

We use foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign
    currency risk but do not engage in currency speculation. We use
    these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted transactions
    denominated in foreign currencies. A hypothetical adverse 10%
    movement in foreign exchange rates compared to the
    U.S. dollar across all maturities (for example, a
    strengthening of the Euro) would result in a hypothetical loss
    in fair value of approximately $48.7 million. Our use of
    this methodology to quantify the market risk of such instruments
    should not be construed as an endorsement of its accuracy or the
    accuracy of the related assumptions. The quantitative
    information about market risk is necessarily limited because it
    does not take into account operating transactions.

Certain of our debt instruments are variable rate instruments
    and our interest expense associated with these instruments is,
    therefore, subject to changes in market interest rates. A 100
    basis-point adverse movement (increase in LIBOR) would increase
    annual interest expense by approximately $12.2 million.

In addition, the fair value of our marketable securities is
    subject to change as a result of potential changes in market
    interest rates. The potential change in fair value for interest
    rate sensitive instruments has been assessed on a hypothetical
    100 basis point adverse movement across all maturities. We
    estimate that such hypothetical adverse 100 basis point
    movement would result in a hypothetical loss in fair value of
    approximately $18.3 million to our interest rate sensitive
    instruments.

The returns from cash and marketable securities will vary as
    short-term interest rates change. A 100 basis-point adverse
    movement (decrease) in short-term interest rates would decrease
    interest income by approximately $11.5 million.

We are exposed to equity price risks on the marketable portion
    of equity securities included in our portfolio of investments
    entered into for the promotion of business and strategic
    objectives. These investments are generally in small
    capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. We
    regularly review the market prices of these investments for
    impairment purposes. A hypothetical adverse 10% movement in
    market values would result in a hypothetical loss in fair value
    of approximately $1.7 million.

Item 8.      

Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

The information required by this Item 8 is contained on
    pages F-1 through F-65 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

Not applicable.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

The information required by this Item is contained in the
    section of Item 7 entitled  Disclosure Controls and
    Procedures and Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
    beginning on page 71 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

Not applicable.

72

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information concerning our executive officers is set forth
    in Part I of this
     Form 10-K. 
    The text of our code of business conduct, which includes the
    code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer,
    principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or
    controller, and persons performing similar functions, is posted
    on our website, www.biogenidec.com, under the  Corporate
    Governance  subsection of the  Company  section
    of the site. Disclosure regarding any amendments to, or waivers
    from, provisions of our code of business conduct, if required,
    will be included in a Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    within four business days following the date of the amendment or
    waiver, unless website posting of such amendments or waivers is
    permitted by the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. Our
    corporate governance principles (also posted on
    www.biogenidec.com) prohibit our Board of Directors from
    granting any waiver of the code of ethics for any of our
    directors or executive officers. We include our website address
    in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be
    an active link to our website.

The response to the remainder of this item is incorporated by
    reference from the discussion responsive thereto in the sections
    labeled  Proposal 1   Election of
    Directors   Information about our Board of Directors
    and its Committees  and  Stock Ownership  
    Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  contained in the proxy statement for our 2008
    annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the section labeled
     Executive Compensation and Related Information 
    contained in the proxy statement for our 2008 annual meeting of
    stockholders.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections labeled
     Stock Ownership  and  Disclosure with Respect to
    our Equity Compensation Plans  contained in the proxy
    statement for our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections labeled
     Proposal 1   Election of
    Directors   Information about our Board of Directors
    and its Committees,   Executive Compensation and
    Related Information   Potential Payments Upon
    Termination or Change in Control Arrangements,  and
     Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions 
    contained in the proxy statement for our 2008 annual meeting of
    stockholders.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the section labeled
     Proposal 2   Ratification of the Selection
    of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    contained in the proxy statement for our 2008 annual meeting of
    stockholders.

73

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules   

a. (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements: 

The Financial Statements required to be filed by Item 8 of
    this Annual Report on Form
     10-K,  and
    filed in this Item 15, are as follows:

Page Number 

in This 

Financial Statements 

Form 10-K 

Consolidated Statements of Income

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-65

(2)  Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or are
    not required, or because the information is included in the
    consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

(3)  Exhibits: 

The following exhibits are referenced or included in this
     Form 10-K. 

74

Table of Contents   

75

Table of Contents   

76

Table of Contents   

Reference to  our  in these cross-references mean
    filings made by Biogen Idec and filings made by IDEC
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation prior to the merger with Biogen, Inc.

77

Table of Contents   

(23)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with Biogen,
    Inc. s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2001, File
     No. 0-12042.  

(24)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2003. 

(25)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on September 29, 2004. 

(26)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. 

(27)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on January 6, 2005. 

(28)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on October 3, 2005. 

(29)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. 

(30)  

Incorporated by reference from an appendix filed with our
    Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on
    April 15, 2005. 

(31)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on September 15, 2005. 

(32)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on December 22, 2005. 

(33)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004. 

(34)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. 

(35)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on February 10, 2006. 

(36)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2005. 

(37)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. 

(38)  

Incorporated by reference from an appendix filed with our
    Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on
    April 15, 2006. 

(39)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. 

(40)  

Incorporated by reference from an exhibit filed with our Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on July 2, 2007. 

78

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

BIOGEN IDEC INC.

By: 

/s/   James
    C. Mullen 

James C. Mullen

Chief Executive Officer and President

Date: February 14, 2008

Pursuant to the requirements the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
    behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
    indicated.

Name 

Capacity 

Date 

/s/   James
    C. Mullen 

James
    C. Mullen

Director, Chief Executive Officer and President (principal
    executive officer)

February 14, 2008

/s/   Paul
    J. Clancy 

Paul
    J. Clancy

Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief 
    Financial Officer (principal 
    financial officer)

February 14, 2008

/s/   Michael
    F. MacLean 

Michael
    F. MacLean

Senior Vice President, Chief 
    Accounting Officer and Controller (principal accounting officer)

February 14, 2008

/s/   Bruce
    R. Ross 

Bruce
    R. Ross

Director; Chairman of the Board of Directors

February 14, 2008

/s/   Lawrence
    C. Best 

Lawrence
    C. Best

Director

February 14, 2008

/s/   Marijn
    E. Dekkers 

Marijn
    E. Dekkers

Director

February 14, 2008

/s/   Alan
    B. Glassberg 

Alan
    B. Glassberg, M.D.

Director

February 14, 2008

/s/   Thomas
    F. Keller 

Thomas
    F. Keller, Ph.D.

Director

February 14, 2008

/s/   Nancy
    L. Leaming 

Nancy
    L. Leaming

Director

February 14, 2008

/s/   Robert
    W. Pangia 

Robert
    W. Pangia

Director

February 14, 2008

79

Table of Contents   

80

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Page 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders 
    Equity 

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-7

F-1

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-2

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS   

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

See Note 1, Business Overview and Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies, for a discussion of non-cash securities
    lending activities that occurred during the period.

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY   (Continued)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS  

1.    

Business
    Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  

Overview   

Biogen Idec Inc. is an international biotechnology company that
    creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high
    unmet medical needs. We currently market four products:
    AVONEX   ,
    RITUXAN   ,
    TYSABRI   
    and
    FUMADERM   .

Principles
    of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements reflect our financial
    statements, those of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and of our
    joint ventures in Italy and Switzerland. In accordance with FASB
    Interpretation No. 46,  Consolidation of Variable
    Interest Entities , or FIN 46(R), we consolidate
    variable interest entities in which we are the primary
    beneficiary. For such consolidated entities in which we own less
    than a 100% interest, we record minority interest in our
    statement of income for the ownership interest of the minority
    owner. All material intercompany balances and transactions have
    been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
    requires our management to make estimates and judgments that may
    affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
    expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and
    liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates,
    including those related to revenue recognition and related
    allowances, marketable securities, derivatives and hedging
    activities, inventory, impairments of long-lived assets,
    including intangible assets, impairments of goodwill, income
    taxes including the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets,
    valuation of long-lived assets and investments, research and
    development, contingencies and litigation, and share-based
    payments. We base our estimates on historical experience and on
    various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable,
    the results of which form the basis for making judgments about
    the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results
    may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
    conditions.

Translation
    of Foreign Currencies   

The functional currency for most of our foreign subsidiaries is
    their local currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at
    current rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Income and
    expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for
    the period. Adjustments resulting from the translation of the
    financial statements of our foreign operations into
    U.S. dollars are excluded from the determination of net
    income and are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
    income, a separate component of shareholders  equity.

Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses are included in
    the results of operations in other income (expense), net. We had
    net foreign exchange gains of $3.0 million and
    $4.9 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and foreign
    exchange losses of $8.7 million in 2005.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

We consider only those investments which are highly liquid,
    readily convertible to cash and that mature within three months
    from date of purchase to be cash equivalents.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments   

The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance
    sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, due
    from unconsolidated joint business, other current assets,
    accounts payable, and accrued expenses and other, approximate
    fair value due to their short-term maturities. Our marketable
    securities and strategic investments, substantially all of which
    are available-for-sale, are carried at fair value based on
    quoted market prices.

F-7

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The fair values of our foreign currency forward contracts are
    based on quoted market prices or pricing models using current
    market rates.

Inventory   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost
    determined under the
     first-in, 
    first-out, or FIFO, method. Included in inventory are raw
    materials used in the production of pre-clinical and clinical
    products,which are charged to research and development expense
    when consumed.

The components of inventories are as follows (in millions):

Capitalization
    of Inventory Costs  

We capitalize inventory costs associated with our products prior
    to regulatory approval when, based on management s
    judgment, future commercialization is considered probable and
    the future economic benefit is expected to be realized. We
    consider numerous attributes in evaluating whether the costs to
    manufacture a particular product should be capitalized as an
    asset. We assess the regulatory approval process and where the
    product stands in relation to that approval process including
    any known constraints and impediments to approval, including
    safety, efficacy and potential labeling restrictions. We
    evaluate our anticipated research and development initiatives
    and constraints relating to the particular product and the
    indication in which it will be used. We consider our
    manufacturing environment including our supply chain in
    determining logistical constraints that could possibly hamper
    approval or commercialization. We consider the shelf life of the
    product in relation to the expected timeline for approval and we
    consider patent related or contract issues that may prevent or
    cause delay in commercialization. We are sensitive to the
    significant commitment of capital to scale up production and to
    launch commercialization strategies. We also base our judgment
    on the viability of commercialization, trends in the marketplace
    and market acceptance criteria. Finally, we consider the
    reimbursement strategies that may prevail with respect to the
    product and assess the economic benefit that we are likely to
    realize. We expense previously capitalized costs related to
    pre-approval inventory upon a change in such judgment, due to,
    among other potential factors, a denial or delay of approval by
    necessary regulatory bodies. As of December 31, 2007 and
    2006, the carrying value of our inventory did not include any
    costs associated with products that had not yet received
    regulatory approval.

In 2007 and 2006, we conducted process validation runs in our
    facility in Cambridge, MA to establish manufacturing
    capabilities for the ZEVALIN product. In connection with those
    process validation runs, we have capitalized approximately
    $12.9 million of ZEVALIN product costs in our Consolidated
    Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2007, based on our
    expectation that the FDA will approve the manufacturing process
    and related inventory.

TYSABRI  

We manufactured TYSABRI during the first and second quarters of
    2005 and completed our scheduled production of TYSABRI during
    July 2005. Because of the uncertain future commercial
    availability of TYSABRI at the time, and our inability to
    predict to the required degree of certainty that TYSABRI
    inventory would be realized in commercial sales prior to the
    expiration of its shelf life, we expensed $23.2 million of
    costs related to the manufacture of TYSABRI to cost of sales. At
    the time of production, the inventory was believed to be
    commercially

F-8

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

saleable. As we worked with clinical investigators to understand
    the possible risks of progressive multifocal
    leukoencephalopathy, or PML, we charged the costs related to the
    manufacture of TYSABRI to research and development expense. As a
    result, we expensed $21.5 million related to the
    manufacture of TYSABRI to research and development expense
    during 2005. At December 31, 2005, there was no carrying
    value of TYSABRI inventory on our consolidated balance sheet.

In the first quarter of 2006, in light of expectations of the
    re-introduction of TYSABRI, we began a new manufacturing
    campaign. The costs associated with this campaign were
    capitalized in accordance with our policy. On June 5, 2006,
    the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approved the
    reintroduction of TYSABRI as a monotherapy treatment for
    relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, or MS, to slow the
    progression of disability and reduce the frequency of clinical
    relapses. On June 29, 2006, we and Elan Corporation plc, or
    Elan, announced the European Medicines Agency s, or
    EMEA s, approval of TYSABRI as a similar treatment. In July
    2006, we began to ship TYSABRI in both the United States and
    Europe.

We had product on hand that was written-down in 2005 due to the
    uncertainties surrounding the TYSABRI suspension, but which was
    subsequently used to fill orders in 2007 and 2006. As a result,
    in 2007 and 2006, we recognized lower than normal cost of sales
    and, therefore, higher margins. For 2007 and 2006, cost of sales
    was approximately $12.6 million and $2.6 million lower
    due to the sale of TYSABRI inventory that had been written-off.
    All TYSABRI inventory that had been previously written-off had
    been shipped at December 31, 2007.

Inventory
    Write-Offs  

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value. If the actual
    realizable value is less than that estimated by us, or if it is
    determined that inventory utilization will further diminish
    based on estimates of demand, additional inventory write-downs
    may be required.

Our products are subject to strict quality control and
    monitoring which we perform throughout the manufacturing
    process. Periodically, certain batches or units of product may
    no longer meet quality specifications or may expire. As a
    result, included in cost of sales were write-downs of commercial
    inventory that did not meet quality specifications or that
    became obsolete due to dating expiration. In all cases product
    inventory is written-down to its estimated net realizable value.

We have written-down the following unmarketable inventory, which
    was charged to cost of sales (in millions):

F-9

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The write-downs were the result of the following (in millions):

Marketable
    Securities and Investments   

Marketable
    Securities, including Strategic Investments  

Until required for use in the business, we invest our cash
    reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial
    paper, corporate notes, foreign and U.S. government
    instruments, asset backed securities and other readily
    marketable debt instruments. We limit the amount of investment
    exposure as to institution, maturity and investment type. At
    December 31, 2007, substantially all of these securities
    were classified as  available-for-sale  in accordance
    with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115,
     Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
    Securities , or SFAS 115. All available-for-sale
    securities are recorded at fair market value and unrealized
    gains and losses, to the extent deemed temporary, are included
    in accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders 
    equity, net of related tax effects. Realized gains and losses
    are reported in other income (expense) net. Declines in value
    judged to be other than temporary on available for sale
    securities are reported in other income (expense) net. This
    includes losses due to changes in credit quality or interest
    rates judged to be other-than-temporary, including changes
    resulting from the disruption in the capital markets during 2007
    (which were not significant). Valuation of available-for-sale
    securities for purposes of determining the amount of gains and
    losses is based on the specific identification method.

As part of our strategic product development efforts, we invest
    in equity securities of certain biotechnology companies with
    which we have collaborative agreements. Such investments are
    known as strategic investments and are classified as available
    for sale and accounted for as marketable securities. When
    assessing whether a decline in the fair value of a strategic
    investment below our cost basis is other-than-temporary, we
    consider the fair market value of the security, the duration of
    the security s decline, and prospects for the underlying
    business, including favorable clinical trial results, new
    product initiatives and new collaborative agreements.

Non-Marketable
    Securities  

We also invest in equity securities of companies whose
    securities are not publicly traded and where fair value is not
    readily available. These investments are recorded using either
    the cost method or the equity method of accounting, depending on
    our percentage ownership interest and other factors which may
    indicate the existence of significant influence, as required by
    Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18,  The Equity
    Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock,  or APB
    18. We monitor these investments to evaluate whether any decline
    in their value has occurred that would be other than temporary,
    based on the implied value from any recent rounds of financing
    completed by the investee, market prices of comparable public
    companies, and general market conditions.

Securities
    lending  

We loan certain securities from our portfolio to other
    institutions. Such securities are classified as loaned
    securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
    Collateral for the loaned securities, consisting of cash or
    other securities is maintained at a rate of approximately 102%
    of the market value of each loaned security. We held cash as
    collateral in the amount of $208.2 million as of
    December 31, 2007. The cash collateral is recorded as

F-10

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

cash collateral received for loaned securities on the
    consolidated balance sheet. We have a current obligation to
    return the collateral which is reflected as collateral received
    on loaned securities on the accompanying consolidated balance
    sheet. Income received from lending securities is recorded in
    other income (expense), net.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, subject to
    review for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may
    not be recoverable. Depreciation is generally calculated on the
    straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
    assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of
    the useful life or the term of the respective lease. Maintenance
    costs are expensed as incurred. Buildings and building
    components are depreciated over estimated useful lives ranging
    from 15 to 40 years, machinery and equipment from 6 to
    15 years, furniture and fixtures for 7 years and
    computer software and hardware from 3 to 5 years. Interest
    costs incurred during the construction of major capital projects
    are capitalized in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 34,  Capitalization of Interest
    Costs,  or SFAS 34. The interest is capitalized until
    the underlying asset is ready for its intended use, at which
    point the interest cost is amortized as interest expense over
    the life of the underlying asset. We capitalize certain direct
    and incremental costs associated with the validation effort
    required for licensing by the FDA of manufacturing equipment for
    the production of a commercially approved drug. These costs
    include primarily direct labor and material and are incurred in
    preparing the equipment for its intended use. The validation
    costs are amortized over the life of the related equipment.

Intangible
    Assets, excluding Goodwill   

Our intangible assets consist of patents, trademarks and
    tradenames, core technology, licenses, assembled workforce and
    distribution rights, the majority of which arose in connection
    with the Merger. These intangible assets were recorded at fair
    value and are stated net of accumulated amortization and
    impairments.

Intangible assets related to patents, core technology, licenses,
    assembled workforce and distribution rights are amortized over
    their remaining estimated useful lives, ranging from 2 to
    20 years. Our amortization policy for intangible assets is
    based on the principles in Statement of Financial Standards
    No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , or
    SFAS 142, which requires the amortization of intangible
    assets reflect the pattern that the economic benefits of the
    intangible asset are consumed. We believe the economic benefit
    of our core technology is consumed as revenue is generated from
    our AVONEX product. Every year during the third quarter we
    complete our long range planning cycle, which includes an
    analysis of the anticipated product sales of AVONEX. The results
    of this forecast serve as the basis for our assumptions used in
    the economic consumption amortization model for our core
    technology intangible assets. Although we believe our process
    has allowed us to reliably determine our best estimate of the
    pattern in which we will consume the economic benefits of the
    core technology intangible assets, we also believe that this
    model could result in deferring amortization charges to future
    periods in certain instances, including the impact of continued
    sales of the product at a nominal level after patent expiration.
    Consequently, in establishing our methodology, we considered
    models that would prevent deferring amortization charges to
    future periods such as the model described in paragraph 8
    of Statement of Financial Standards No. 86,  Accounting
    for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or
    Otherwise Marketed,  or SFAS 86. In order to ensure
    amortization charges are not unreasonably deferred to future
    periods, we use the straight-line method to determine the
    minimum annual amount of amortization expense, or the minimum.
    The long range planning process determines whether amortization
    will be based on an economic consumption or the minimum and,
    thus, the amount of amortization for the next four quarters.

Intangible assets related to trademarks and tradenames have
    indefinite lives, and as a result are not amortized, but are
    subject to review for impairment. We review our intangible
    assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, as of
    October 31, and whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be
    recoverable.

F-11

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets   

Long-lived assets to be held and used, including property plant
    and equipment, intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment
    whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
    carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Conditions
    that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a
    significant decline in the observable market value of an asset,
    a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset
    is used, or a significant adverse change that would indicate
    that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets is not
    recoverable. Determination of recoverability is based on an
    estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the
    use of the asset and its eventual disposition. In the event that
    such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the
    carrying amount of the assets, the assets are written-down to
    their estimated fair values. Long-lived assets to be disposed of
    are carried at fair value less costs to sell.

Goodwill   

Goodwill relates largely to amounts that arose in connection
    with the Merger and represents the difference between the
    purchase price and the fair value of the identifiable tangible
    and intangible net assets when accounted for using the purchase
    method of accounting. Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject
    to periodic review for impairment. Goodwill is reviewed
    annually, as of October 31, and whenever events or changes
    in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the
    goodwill might not be recoverable.

Income
    Taxes   

The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, local
    and foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the
    liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
    recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of
    temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
    amounts and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
    apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary
    differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We evaluate
    the realizability of our deferred tax assets and establish a
    valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or
    a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized.

We account for uncertain tax positions in accordance with FASB
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109 , or FIN 48. FIN 48 prescribes a
    recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial
    statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
    expected to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance
    on various related matters such as derecognition, interest and
    penalties, and disclosure. We also recognize interest and
    penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in
    income tax expense.

Derivatives
    and Hedging Activities   

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,
     or SFAS 133, requires that all derivatives be
    recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in
    the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in
    current earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss), depending on whether a derivative is designated as part
    of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge
    transaction. We assess, both at inception and on an on-going
    basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging
    transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes in
    cash flows of hedged items. We also assess hedge ineffectiveness
    on a quarterly basis and record the gain or loss related to the
    ineffective portion to current earnings to the extent
    significant. If we determine that a forecasted transaction is no
    longer probable of occurring, we discontinue hedge accounting
    for the affected portion of the hedge instrument, and any
    related unrealized gain or loss on the contract is recognized in
    current earnings.

F-12

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Comprehensive
    Income (Loss)   

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130,
     Reporting Comprehensive Income,  or SFAS 130,
    requires us to display comprehensive income (loss) and its
    components as part of our financial statements. Comprehensive
    income (loss) is comprised of net income and other comprehensive
    income (loss). Other comprehensive income (loss) includes
    changes in equity that are excluded from net income, such as
    foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized holding
    gains and losses on available-for-sale marketable securities and
    certain derivative instruments, and, effective December 31,
    2006, the unfunded amount of our postretirement and pension
    plans. All of these changes in equity are reflected net of tax.

Segment
    Information   

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131,
     Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
    Information,  or SFAS 131, establishes standards for
    reporting information on operating segments in interim and
    annual financial statements. We operate in one segment, which is
    the business of development, manufacturing and commercialization
    of novel therapeutics for human health care. Our chief operating
    decision-maker reviews our operating results on an aggregate
    basis and manages our operations as a single operating segment.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Product
    Revenues  

We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met:
    persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has
    occurred or services have been rendered; the seller s price
    to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is
    reasonably assured.

Revenues from product sales are recognized when title and risk
    of loss have passed to the customer, which is typically upon
    delivery. However, sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. are
    recognized on the  sell-through  model, that is, upon
    shipment of the product by Elan to its third party distributor
    rather than upon shipment to Elan. The timing of distributor
    orders and shipments can cause variability in earnings.

Revenues are recorded net of applicable allowances for trade
    term discounts, wholesaler incentives, Medicaid rebates,
    Veteran s Administration, or VA, rebates, managed care
    rebates, product returns and other applicable allowances.

TYSABRI  

Subsequent to the re-introduction of TYSABRI for sale in the
    U.S. and approval for sale in Europe, we began to ship
    TYSABRI into both regions in the third quarter of 2006. We
    manufacture TYSABRI and collaborate with Elan on the
    product s marketing, distribution and on-going development
    activities. The collaboration agreement with Elan is designed to
    effect an equal sharing of profits and losses generated by the
    activities of the collaboration between us and Elan. Under our
    agreement with Elan, however, in the event that sales of TYSABRI
    exceed specified thresholds, Elan is required to make milestone
    payments to us in order to continue sharing equally in the
    collaboration s results.

In the U.S., we sell TYSABRI to Elan who sells the product to
    third party distributors. We and Elan co-market the product. The
    sales price to Elan in the U.S. is set at the beginning of
    each quarterly period to effect an equal sharing of the gross
    margin between Elan and us. In addition, both parties share
    equally in the operating costs, which include research and
    development, selling, general and administrative expenses and
    other similar costs. Elan s reimbursement of TYSABRI
    operating costs is reflected as a reduction of the respective
    costs within our consolidated statement of income. Sales of
    TYSABRI to Elan are reported as revenues and are recognized upon
    Elan s shipment of the product to third party distributors,
    at which time all revenue recognition criteria have been

F-13

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

met. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had deferred
    revenue of $9.0 million and $5.0 million,
    respectively, for shipments to Elan that remained in Elan s
    ending inventory.

For sales outside the U.S., we are responsible for distributing
    TYSABRI to customers and are primarily responsible for all
    operating activities. Both parties share equally in the
    operating results of TYSABRI operations outside the
    U.S. Sales of TYSABRI are reported as revenue and are
    recognized at the time of shipment of product to our customer,
    as all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Payments to
    or from Elan for their share of collaboration net operating
    profits or losses relating to sales outside the U.S. are
    reflected in the collaboration profit (loss) sharing line in our
    consolidated statement of income. For 2007 and 2006, we provided
    and received net payments of $14.1 million and
    ($9.7) million, respectively, related to reimbursements
    made in connection with this arrangement.

Prior to the suspension of TYSABRI in 2005, we shipped product
    to Elan in the U.S. and recognized revenue in accordance
    with the policy described above. As a result of the suspension
    of TYSABRI, we deferred $14.0 million in revenue from Elan
    related to TYSABRI product that Elan had not yet shipped to
    third party distributors. This amount was paid by Elan during
    2005 and was recognized as revenue during 2006, when the
    uncertainty about the ultimate disposition of the product was
    eliminated.

Reserves
    for Discounts and Allowances   

We establish reserves for trade term discounts, wholesaler
    incentives, Medicaid rebates, VA rebates, managed care rebates,
    product returns and other applicable allowances and in 2006 and
    2005, patient assistance and patient replacement goods. Such
    reserves are classified as reductions of accounts receivable (if
    the amount is payable to our customer) or a liability (if the
    amount is payable to a party other than our customer).

Effective January 1, 2007, we changed the manner in which
    we administer our patient assistance and patient replacement
    goods programs. Prior to January 1, 2007, AVONEX product
    shipped for these programs was invoiced and recorded as gross
    product revenue and an offsetting provision for discount and
    returns was recorded for expected credit requests from the
    distributor that administers these programs on our behalf.
    Effective January 1, 2007, we entered into a new
    arrangement with a distributor, which established a consignment
    sales model. Under the new arrangement, gross revenue is not
    recorded for product shipped to satisfy these programs, and cost
    of sales is recorded when we ship the product.

An analysis of the amount of, and change in, reserves is as
    follows (in millions):

F-14

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The total reserves above were included in the consolidated
    balance sheet as follows (in millions):

The reserves are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to
    be claimed on the related sales. These estimates take into
    consideration our historical experience, current contractual and
    statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends
    and forecasted customer buying patterns. If actual future
    results vary, we may need to adjust these estimates, which could
    have an effect on earnings in the period of the adjustment.

Product revenue reserves are categorized as follows: discounts,
    contractual adjustments and returns.

Discounts  

Discount reserves include trade term discounts, wholesaler
    incentives and, in 2006 and 2005, patient assistance.

Trade term discounts and wholesaler incentive reserves primarily
    relate to estimated obligations for credits to be granted to
    wholesalers for remitting payment on their purchases within
    established incentive periods and credits to be granted to
    wholesalers for compliance with various contractually-defined
    inventory management practices, respectively. We determine these
    reserves based on our experience, including the timing of
    customer payments.

In 2006 and 2005, patient assistance reserves were established
    to cover no-charge product that we distribute to qualifying
    patients under our indigent program, Patient Access. The program
    is administered through one of our distribution partners, who
    ship product for qualifying patients from their own inventory
    that was purchased from us. In 2006 and 2005, the distributor
    received a credit at the end of each period for product that was
    administered during the period. An accrual was established
    through a reduction of product revenues for sales made to the
    distributor which we estimated may be used to administer our
    patient assistance program. We determined this reserve based on
    our experience with the activity under the program. Effective
    January 1, 2007, gross revenue and the related reserves are
    not recorded on product shipped under this program.

F-15

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Contractual
    Adjustments  

Contractual adjustment reserves relate to Medicaid, VA and
    managed care rebates and other applicable allowances.

Medicaid rebates reserves relate to our estimated obligations to
    states under established reimbursement arrangements. Rebate
    accruals are recorded in the same period the related revenue is
    recognized resulting in a reduction of product sales revenue and
    the establishment of a liability. Rebate amounts are generally
    determined at the time of claim to the state, and we generally
    make cash payments for such amounts within a few weeks of
    receiving billings from the state.

VA rebates or chargeback reserves represent our estimated
    obligations resulting from contractual commitments to sell
    products to qualified healthcare providers at prices lower than
    the list prices we charge the wholesalers which provide those
    products. The wholesaler charges us for the difference between
    what the wholesaler pays for the products and the ultimate
    selling price to the qualified healthcare providers. Rebate
    accruals are established in the same period as the related
    revenue is recognized resulting in a reduction in product sales
    revenue. Chargeback amounts are generally determined at the time
    of resale to the qualified healthcare provider, and we generally
    issue credits for such amounts within a few weeks of receiving
    notification from the wholesaler.

Managed care rebates reserves represent our estimated
    obligations to third parties, primarily pharmacy benefit
    managers. Rebate accruals are recorded in the same period the
    related revenue is recognized resulting in a reduction to
    product sales revenue and the establishment of a liability which
    is included in other accrued liabilities. These rebates result
    from performance-based offers that are primarily based on
    attaining contractually specified sales volumes and growth. The
    calculation of the accrual for these rebates is based on an
    estimate of the customer s buying patterns and the
    resulting applicable contractual rebate rate(s) to be earned
    over a contractual period.

Returns  

Allowances for product returns are established for returns made
    by wholesalers and patients. In accordance with contractual
    terms, wholesalers are permitted to return product for reasons
    such as damaged or expired product. We also accept returns from
    our patients for various reasons.

Reserves for product returns are recorded in the period the
    related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to
    product sales revenue. The patient return program is
    administered by the same distribution partner as the patient
    assistance program. As noted above, in 2006 and 2005, revenue
    related to product sold to this distribution partner that is
    used to satisfy patient returns was fully reserved. The majority
    of wholesaler returns are due to product expiration. Expired
    product return reserves are estimated through a comparison of
    historical return data to their related sales on a production
    lot basis. Historical rates of return are determined for each
    product and are adjusted for known or expected changes in the
    marketplace specific to each product. As noted above, in 2007,
    pursuant to the change in the way we administered our patient
    assistance program, revenue is no longer recorded under this
    program.

During the second quarter of 2006, we recorded an increase in
    our allowance for expired products of $12.3 million to
    correct for prior period errors. This increase in the allowance
    was recorded through an out of period reduction in net product
    revenue of $6.9 million and an increase in goodwill of
    $5.4 million. We identified and quantified the errors
    through an analysis of the historical rate for returns based on
    volumes of returns and the amount of credit granted to the
    returning distributors in past periods. At the time of the
    Merger with Biogen, Inc. in 2003, Biogen, Inc. had understated
    its allowance for expired product by an estimated
    $5.4 million due to an incorrect methodology applied in
    calculating its reserve balance. Had we identified this error at
    the time of the Merger, the recorded goodwill would have been
    approximately $5.4 million higher than has been previously
    reflected. Biogen, Inc. s methodology was in error because
    it did not utilize known information in determining critical
    assumptions used in the basis of calculation. Our application of
    this incorrect methodology in the post-Merger period resulted in
    understating this reserve by an additional $6.9 million. In
    all cases, the correctly

F-16

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

calculated rate of return is less than one percent of related
    gross product revenues. We have determined that the out of
    period correction of this error in 2006 is not material to our
    reported results. Additionally, we have determined that the
    error at the merger date is not material to any prior period
    balance sheet amounts and the error in the post-merger period is
    not material to any prior period reported results.

Other  

Bad debt reserves are based on our estimated uncollectible
    accounts receivable. Given our historical experiences with bad
    debts, combined with our credit management policies and
    practices, we do not presently maintain significant bad debt
    reserves. The amount of such reserves as of December 31,
    2007, and 2006, was $0.8 million, and $1.7 million,
    respectively.

We have various contracts with distributors that provide for
    discounts and rebates. These discounts and rebates are
    classified as a reduction of revenue. We also maintain select
    customer service contracts with distributors and other customers
    in the distribution channel. We have established the fair value
    of these services and classified these customer service
    contracts as sales and marketing expense. If we had concluded
    that sufficient evidence of the fair value did not exist for
    these services, we would have been required to classify these
    costs as a reduction of revenue.

Revenues
    from Unconsolidated Joint Business   

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist of our share
    of the pretax copromotion profits generated from our copromotion
    arrangement with Genentech, Inc., or Genentech, reimbursement
    from Genentech of our RITUXAN-related sales force and
    development expenses and royalties from Genentech for sales of
    RITUXAN outside the U.S. by F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.,
    or Roche, and Zenyaku Kogyo Co. Ltd., or Zenyaku. Under the
    copromotion arrangement, all U.S. sales of RITUXAN and
    associated costs and expenses are recognized by Genentech and we
    record our share of the pretax copromotion profits as defined in
    our amended and restated collaboration agreement with Genentech.
    Pretax copromotion profits under the copromotion arrangement are
    derived by taking U.S. net sales of RITUXAN to third-party
    customers less cost of sales, third-party royalty expenses,
    distribution, selling and marketing expenses and joint
    development expenses incurred by Genentech and us. We record
    royalty revenue on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. on a
    cash basis.

Royalty
    Revenues   

We receive royalty revenues under license agreements with a
    number of third parties that sell products based on technology
    we have developed or to which we have rights. The license
    agreements provide for the payment of royalties to us based on
    sales of the licensed product. We record these revenues based on
    estimates of the sales that occurred during the relevant period.
    The relevant period estimates of sales are based on interim data
    provided by licensees and analysis of historical royalties we
    have been paid (adjusted for any changes in facts and
    circumstances, as appropriate). We maintain regular
    communication with our licensees in order to gauge the
    reasonableness of our estimates. Differences between actual
    royalty revenues and estimated royalty revenues are reconciled
    and adjusted for in the period in which they become known,
    typically the following quarter. Historically, adjustments have
    not been material based on actual amounts paid by licensees.
    There are no future performance obligations on our part under
    these license agreements. To the extent we do not have
    sufficient ability to accurately estimate revenue, we record it
    on a cash basis.

Research
    and Development Expenses   

Research and development expenses consist of upfront fees and
    milestones paid to collaborators and expenses incurred in
    performing research and development activities including
    salaries and benefits, facilities expenses, overhead expenses,
    clinical trial and related clinical manufacturing expenses,
    contract services and other outside expenses. Research and
    development expenses are expensed as incurred. We have entered
    into certain research agreements in which we share expenses with
    our collaborator. We have entered into other collaborations
    where we

F-17

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

are reimbursed for work performed on behalf of our collaborative
    partners. We record the expenses for such work as research and
    development expenses. If the arrangement is a cost-sharing
    arrangement and there is a period during which we receive
    payments from the collaborator, we record payments by the
    collaborator for their share of the development effort as a
    reduction of research and development expense. If the
    arrangement is a reimbursement of research and development
    expenses, we record the reimbursement as corporate partner
    revenue.

FIN 46(R)   

Under FIN 46(R) ,  we consolidate variable interest
    entities for which we are the primary beneficiary. For such
    consolidated entities in which we own less than a 100% interest,
    we record minority interest in our statement of income for the
    current results allocable to the outside equity interests.
    FIN 46(R) impacts the way we account for certain
    collaborations and future events may result in our consolidation
    of companies or related entities with which we have a
    collaborative arrangement. The consolidation of variable
    interest entities may have a material effect on our financial
    condition
     and/or 
    results of operation in future periods.

Acquired
    In-Process Research and Development   

IPR D represents the fair value assigned to research and
    development projects that we acquire that have not been
    completed at the date of acquisition and which have no future
    alternative use. Accordingly, the fair value of such projects is
    recorded as in process research and development expense as of
    the acquisition date.

The value assigned to acquired IPR D is determined by
    estimating the costs to develop the acquired technology into
    commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash
    flows from the projects, and discounting the net cash flows to
    present value. The revenue and costs projections used to value
    IPR D were, as applicable, reduced based on the probability
    of developing a new drug. Additionally, the projections
    considered the relevant market sizes and growth factors,
    expected trends in technology, and the nature and expected
    timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors.
    The resulting net cash flows from such projects are based on
    management s estimates of cost of sales, operating
    expenses, and income taxes from such projects. The rates
    utilized to discount the net cash flows to their present value
    were commensurate with the stage of development of the projects
    and uncertainties in the economic estimates used in the
    projections described above.

If these projects are not successfully developed, the sales and
    profitability of the company may be adversely affected in future
    periods. Additionally, the value of other acquired intangible
    assets may become impaired. We believe that the foregoing
    assumptions used in the IPR D analysis were reasonable at
    the time of the respective acquisition. No assurance can be
    given, however, that the underlying assumptions used to estimate
    expected project sales, development costs or profitability, or
    the events associated with such projects, will transpire as
    estimated.

Earnings
    per Share   

We calculate earnings per share in accordance with Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,  Earnings per
    Share , or SFAS 128, and
     EITF 03-06, 
     Participating Securities and the Two  
    Class Method Under SFAS 128,  or
     EITF 03-06. 
    SFAS 128 and
     EITF 03-06 
    together require the presentation of  basic  earnings
    per share and  diluted  earnings per share.

Basic earnings per share is computed using the two-class method.
    Under the two-class method, undistributed net income is
    allocated to common stock and participating securities based on
    their respective rights to share in dividends. We have
    determined that our preferred shares meet the definition of
    participating securities, and have allocated a portion of net
    income to our preferred shares on a pro rata basis. Net income
    allocated to preferred shares is excluded from the calculation
    of basic earnings per share. For basic earnings per share, net
    income available to holders of common stock is divided by the
    weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding.
    For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, net
    income is adjusted for the after-tax amount of interest
    associated with convertible debt and net income allocable to
    preferred shares, and the denominator includes both

F-18

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

the weighted average number of shares of common stock
    outstanding and potential dilutive shares of common stock from
    stock options, unvested restricted stock awards, restricted
    stock units and other convertible securities, to the extent they
    are dilutive.

Accounting
    for Share-based Compensation   

Our share-based compensation programs consist of share-based
    awards granted to employees including stock options, restricted
    stock, performance and time-vested restricted stock units, as
    well as our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP.

Until December 31, 2005, we applied APB Opinion
    No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  or
    APB 25, in accounting for our plans and applied Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,  Accounting for
    Stock Issued to Employees,  or SFAS 123, as amended by
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148,
     Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  
    Transition and Disclosure,  or SFAS 148, for disclosure
    purposes only. The SFAS 123 disclosures included pro forma
    net income and earnings per share as if the fair value-based
    method of accounting had been used. Stock-based compensation
    issued to non-employees was accounted for in accordance with
    SFAS 123 and related interpretations.

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),
     Share-Based Payments,  or SFAS 123(R), which replaced
    SFAS 123 and superseded APB 25. SFAS 123(R) requires
    compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions
    to be recognized in the financial statements using a fair-value
    measurement method. Under the fair value method, the estimated
    fair value of awards is charged against income over the
    requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period.
    We selected the modified prospective method as prescribed in
    SFAS 123(R) and, therefore, prior periods were not
    restated. Under the modified prospective application,
    SFAS 123(R) was applied to new awards granted in 2006, as
    well as to the unvested portion of previously granted
    share-based awards for which the requisite service had not been
    rendered as of December 31, 2005. Where awards are made
    with non-substantive vesting periods (for instance, where a
    portion of the award vests upon retirement eligibility), we
    estimate and recognize expense based on the period from the
    grant date to the date on which the employee is retirement
    eligible. For our ESPP, we apply a graded vesting approach
    because the ESPP provides for multiple purchase periods and is,
    in substance, a series of linked awards.

The fair value of the stock option grants is based on estimates
    as of the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation
    model. The fair value of all time vested restricted units and
    restricted stock is based on the market value of our stock on
    the date of grant. Compensation expense for restricted stock and
    restricted stock units, including the effect of forfeitures, is
    recognized over the applicable service period. The fair value of
    performance based stock units is based on the market price of
    our stock on the date of grant and assumes that the performance
    criteria will be met and the target payout level will be
    achieved. Compensation cost is adjusted for subsequent changes
    in the outcome of performance-related conditions until the
    vesting dates. For certain performance based stock units, we
    apply a graded vesting approach and the fair value is based on
    the market price on the date of the vesting.

Change
    in Accounting Principle Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of
    Share-based Payment Awards   

In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
    FAS 123(R)   3,  Transition Election Related to
    Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-based Payment Awards,  or
    FSP FAS 123(R)   3. In accordance with FSP
    FAS 123(R)   3, entities can choose to follow
    either the transitional guidance of SFAS 123(R) or the
    alternative transition method described in FSP
    FAS 123(R)   3. Effective in the fourth quarter
    of 2006, we elected to adopt the alternative transition method
    for calculating the tax effects of stock-based compensation
    pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method
    includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance
    of the additional paid-in capital pool, or APIC pool or
    windfall, related to the tax effects of employee stock-based
    compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC
    pool and consolidated statements of cash flows of the tax
    effects of employee-stock based compensation awards that are
    outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). Electing the

F-19

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

alternative transition method constitutes a change in accounting
    principle, which requires retrospective application to the 2006
    quarterly financial statements.

As a result of the adoption of FSP FAS 123(R)  
    3, the presentation of income taxes in the consolidated
    statement of cash flows and stockholders equity has changed.

The retrospective application to prior period financial
    statements had the effect of changing the amounts of cash flows
    from operations and from financing from those previously
    reported in our
     Forms 10-Q. 
    Specifically, for the nine months ended September 30, 2006,
    both cash flows from operating activities, and cash used in
    financing activities would have been lower by $9.2 million.
    For the six months ended by June 30, 2006 both cash flows
    from operating activities, and cash used in financing activities
    would have been lower by $8.0 million. The change to the
    amounts reported in the
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ending March 31, 2006, was not material.

Consistent with the election to use the alternative method, we
    have excluded the impact of pro forma deferred tax assets in
    determining the assumed proceeds under the treasury method for
    purposes of calculating earnings per share.

Assets
    Held for Sale   

We consider certain real property and certain other
    miscellaneous assets as held for sale when they meet the
    criteria set out in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
    Long-Lived Assets , or SFAS 144.

As of December 31, 2007, there were no assets held for sale
    on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. As of
    December 31, 2006, assets held for sale were
    $9.3 million that comprised certain land and real property
    in San Diego, CA. that was sold in 2007, as described in
    Note 24, Facility Impairments and Loss (Gain) on
    Dispositions. Assets held for sale are included in other current
    assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

2.    

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

Syntonix
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   

In January 2007, we acquired 100% of the stock of Syntonix
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Syntonix, a privately held
    biopharmaceutical company based in Waltham, Massachusetts.
    Syntonix focuses on discovering and developing long-acting
    therapeutic products to improve treatment regimens for chronic
    diseases, and is engaged in multiple pre-clinical programs in
    hemophilia. The purchase price was $44.4 million, including
    transaction costs, and could increase to as much as
    $124.4 million if certain development milestones with
    respect to Syntonix s lead product, long acting recombinant
    Factor IX, a proprietary long-acting factor IX product for the
    treatment of hemophilia B, are achieved. The purpose of the
    acquisition was to enhance our pipeline and to expand into
    additional specialized markets.

The acquisition was funded from our existing cash on hand and
    was accounted for as an asset acquisition as Syntonix is a
    development-stage company. As a result of the acquisition we
    obtained the rights to the in-process technology of the
    Fc-fusion technology platform. Syntonix has two programs in
    development using the Fc-fusion platform, long acting
    recombinant Factor IX and long acting recombinant Factor VIII.
    Syntonix s lead product, long acting recombinant Factor IX,
    is a proprietary long-acting factor IX product for the treatment
    of hemophilia B. Syntonix filed an investigational new drug
    application with the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for
    long acting recombinant Factor IX in 2007. Long acting
    recombinant Factor VIII is a product for the treatment of
    hemophilia A and is approximately two years from filing of the
    investigational new drug application with the FDA.

F-20

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The results of operations of Syntonix are included in our
    consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition.
    We have completed our purchase price allocation for the
    acquisition as set out below (in millions):

The purchase price included $2.0 million in loan
    forgiveness and $0.7 million in transaction fees. In
    addition, $0.3 million of severance charges were accrued as
    a result of the acquisition.

The amount allocated to IPR D relates to the development of
    long acting recombinant Factor IX and long acting recombinant
    Factor VIII, which are in a development stage. We expect to
    incur an additional $37.5 million to complete long acting
    recombinant Factor IX and an additional $43.8 million to
    complete long acting recombinant Factor VIII. The estimated
    revenues from long acting recombinant Factor IX and long acting
    recombinant Factor VIII are expected to be recognized beginning
    in 2012 and 2014, respectively. A discount rate of 13% was used
    to value these projects, which we believe to be commensurate
    with the stage of development and the uncertainties in the
    economic estimates described above. At the date of acquisition,
    these compounds had not reached technological feasibility and
    had no alternative future use. Accordingly, $18.4 million
    in IPR D was expensed upon acquisition.

Upon acquisition, we recognized a deferred tax asset of
    $27.8 million.. The deferred tax asset included
    approximately $12.8 million of net operating loss and
    research credit carryovers that will be utilized prior to
    applicable expiration dates, as well as approximately
    $15.3 million of other deferred tax assets primarily
    related to
     start-up  and
    research expenditures that have been capitalized for tax
    purposes and will be amortized over the next several years.

Future contingent consideration payments, if any, will be
    recorded as IPR D. The total revenue, operating income
    (loss) and net income (loss) pro forma impacts of the
    acquisition for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
    were not material.

Zevalin   

In December 2007, we sold the U.S. marketing, sales,
    manufacturing and development rights of ZEVALIN to Cell
    Therapeutics, Inc., or CTI, for an upfront purchase price of
    $10.0 million and up to an additional $20.0 million in
    milestone payments. In addition, we also will receive royalty
    payments on future sales of ZEVALIN. As part of the overall
    arrangement, we have entered into a contract with CTI to supply
    ZEVALIN product through 2014 and a related services and security
    agreement under which CTI has agreed to reimburse us for costs
    incurred in an ongoing randomized clinical trial for ZEVALIN
    with respect to aggressive non-Hodgkin s lymphoma. The
    $10.0 million upfront payment will be recognized in our
    results of operations over the term of the supply agreement.

Fumapharm   

In June 2006, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the stock
    of Fumapharm, a privately held pharmaceutical company based in
    Switzerland that develops therapeutics derived from fumaric acid
    esters. As part of the acquisition, we acquired FUMADERM, a
    commercial product available in Germany for the treatment of
    psoriasis, and BG-12, a clinical-stage compound being studied
    for the treatment of MS and psoriasis that was being jointly
    developed by Fumapharm and us. The purpose of this acquisition
    was to support our goal of developing innovative therapeutic
    options for people living with MS.

F-21

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

As part of the acquisition, we agreed to pay
    $220.0 million, of which $218.0 million was paid at
    closing and $2.0 million will be retained until
    July 31, 2008 as partial coverage for any losses incurred
    as a result of any breach of representations and warranties. We
    agreed to additional payments of $15.0 million upon
    achievement of certain regulatory approvals, and additional
    payments in the event that annual and cumulative sales targets,
    as defined, are achieved.

The acquisition was funded from our existing cash on hand and
    has been accounted for as a business combination. Assets and
    liabilities assumed have been recorded at their fair values as
    of the date of acquisition. The results of operations for
    Fumapharm are included from the date of acquisition. Our
    purchase price allocation for the acquisition is set forth below
    (in millions):

The purchase price allocation was completed during the fourth
    quarter of 2006.

The amount allocated to IPR D projects relates to the
    development of BG-12. BG-12 had recently received positive
    results from a Phase 2 study of its efficacy and safety for
    patients with relapsing-remitting MS and, subsequent to the
    acquisition, we initiated Phase 3 clinical trials. Since the
    acquisition in June of 2006, we have incurred $56.3 million
    in research and development costs. We expect to incur
    approximately an additional $111 million to complete the
    development of BG-12. The estimated revenues from BG-12 are
    expected to be recognized beginning in 2011. A discount rate of
    12% was used to value the project, which we believe to be
    commensurate with the stage of development and the uncertainties
    in the economic estimates described above. At the date of
    acquisition, the development of BG-12 had not yet reached
    technological feasibility, and the research and development in
    progress had no alternative future use. Accordingly,
    $207.4 million in IPR D was expensed in 2006.

The fair value of intangible assets was based on valuations
    using an income approach, with estimates and assumptions
    determined by management. The core technology asset represents a
    combination of Fumapharm s processes and procedures related
    to the design and development of its application products. The
    developed technology relates to processes and procedures related
    to products that have reached technological feasibility. Core
    technology is being amortized over approximately 12 years
    and the developed technology over approximately 3 years.
    The excess of purchase price over tangible assets, identifiable
    intangible assets and assumed liabilities represents goodwill.
    None of the goodwill or intangible assets acquired is deductible
    for income tax purposes. As a result, we recorded a deferred tax
    liability of $2.8 million, based on the tax effect of the
    amount of the acquired intangible assets other than goodwill
    with no tax basis.

F-22

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

In addition to the assets acquired, a gain of $34.2 million
    was recognized coincident with the acquisition of Fumapharm in
    accordance with
     EITF 04-1, 
     Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between the Parties
    to a Business Combination.  The gain related to the
    settlement of a preexisting license agreement between Fumapharm
    and us. The license agreement in question had been entered into
    in October 2003 and required us to make payments to Fumapharm of
    certain royalty amounts. The market rate for such payments was
    determined to have increased due, principally, to the increased
    technical feasibility of BG-12. The gain primarily relates to
    the difference between i) the royalty rates at the time the
    agreement was entered into as compared to ii) the expected
    higher royalty rates that would result at the time the agreement
    was effectively settled by virtue of our acquisition of
    Fumapharm.

Future contingent consideration payments, if any, will be
    accounted for as increases to goodwill. The total revenue,
    operating income (loss) and net income (loss) impacts of the
    acquisition for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005
    were not material.

Conforma   

In May 2006, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the stock
    of Conforma, a privately-held development stage
    biopharmaceutical company based in California that focused on
    the design and development of drugs for the treatment of cancer.
    The goal of this acquisition was to enable us to broaden our
    therapeutic opportunities in the field of oncology.

We acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of the
    capital stock of Conforma for $150.0 million, paid at
    closing. Of this amount, $15.0 million has been escrowed by
    the sellers pending satisfaction of customary representations
    and warranties made by Conforma. Up to an additional
    $100.0 million could be payable to the sellers upon the
    achievement of certain future development milestones.
    Additionally, $0.5 million in transaction costs were
    incurred and loans of approximately $2.3 million were made
    to certain non-officer employees of Conforma, which are included
    in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
    Such loans are fully collateralized and were made for the
    purpose of assisting the employees in meeting their tax
    liabilities.

The acquisition was funded from our existing cash on hand and
    was accounted for as an asset acquisition as Conforma is a
    development-stage company. As a result of the acquisition, we
    obtained the rights to two compounds in Phase 1 clinical trials:
    CNF1010, a proprietary form of the geldanamycin derivative
     17-AAG;  and
    CNF2024, or HSP90i, a totally synthetic, orally bioavailable
    heat shock protein 90 inhibitor.

The results of operations of Conforma are included in our
    results from the date of acquisition. Our completed purchase
    price allocation for the acquisition is set forth below (in
    millions):

The amount allocated to IPR D relates to the development of
    HSP90i, which is in Phase 1 clinical trials. Since the
    acquisition in June of 2006, we have incurred $22.9 million
    in research and development costs. We expect to incur
    approximately an additional $98 million to complete the
    development of HSP90i. The estimated revenues from HSP90i, if
    any, are expected to be recognized beginning in 2011. A discount
    rate of 12% was used to value the project, which we believe to
    be commensurate with the stage of development and the
    uncertainties in the economic estimates described above. At the
    date of acquisition, this compound had not reached technological
    feasibility and had no alternative future use. Accordingly,
    $123.1 million in IPR D was expensed in 2006.

F-23

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Upon acquisition, we recognized a deferred tax asset of
    $24.0 million relating to US federal and state net
    operating losses and tax credit carryforwards that we acquired
    from Conforma. The amount allocated to deferred tax assets does
    not include certain tax attributes, such as net operating losses
    and research credits, that may not be realized because they are
    subject to annual limitations under the Internal Revenue Code
    due to a cumulative ownership change of more than 50% which
    occurred in connection with our acquisition of Conforma.

Future contingent consideration payments, if any, will be
    recorded as IPR D. The total revenue, operating income
    (loss) and net income (loss) impacts of the acquisition for the
    years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were not material.

Fumedica
    Agreements   

In December 2006, we entered into an agreement with Fumedica.
    Fumedica is a privately held pharmaceutical company based in
    Germany and Switzerland that maintains distribution rights to
    FUMADERM and to whom we were contingently obligated to make
    royalty payments with respect to a successful launch of BG-12
    for psoriasis in Germany. Fumedica had the rights to distribute
    FUMADERM in Germany through April 2009. Under the terms of the
    agreement, we have obtained all distribution and marketing
    rights to FUMADERM effective May 2007. No royalty payments were
    due under the agreement and under the terms of the transition
    agreement, we will not be required to make any royalty payments
    to Fumedica if BG-12 is successfully launched for psoriasis in
    Germany.

In connection with this transaction, we committed to total
    payments of 61.4 million Swiss Francs ($50.5 million),
    which will be paid to Fumedica in varying amounts from June 2008
    through June 2018. The present value of these payments was
    $39.2 million. The fair value of the acquired FUMADERM
    distribution rights was approximately $11.1 million. This
    amount has been capitalized and included in intangible assets
    and will be amortized over approximately two years beginning in
    May 2007, based on the remaining term of the distribution
    agreement. The fair value of terminating the pre-existing
    agreement was approximately $28.1 million. This amount has
    been expensed as it relates to a product that has not reached
    technological feasibility.

The present value of the payments due under the agreements will
    be accreted to future value at an interest rate of 5.75%, our
    incremental borrowing rate at the time of the acquisition.

The total revenue, operating income (loss) and net income (loss)
    impacts of the acquisition for the years ended December 31,
    2006 and 2005 were not material.

3.    

Financial
    Instruments  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to
    concentrations of credit risk are accounts receivable and
    marketable securities. Wholesale distributors and large
    pharmaceutical companies account for the majority of our
    accounts receivable and collateral is generally not required
    from these customers. To mitigate credit risk, we monitor the
    financial performance and credit worthiness of our customers.

F-24

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Marketable
    Securities, including Strategic Investments   

The following is a summary of marketable securities and
    investments (in millions):

The tables above include our loaned securities. In the years
    ended December 31, 2007 and 2005, we recognized
    $7.5 million and $3.1 million, respectively, in
    charges for the impairment of available-for-sale securities,
    other than strategic investments, that were determined to be
    other-than-temporary following a decline in value. No such
    charges were recognized in 2006.

Unrealized losses relate to various debt securities, including
    U.S. Government issues, corporate bonds and asset-backed
    securities. The unrealized losses on these securities were
    primarily caused by a rise in interest rates subsequent to
    purchase. We believe that these unrealized losses are temporary,
    and we have the intent and ability to hold these securities to
    recovery, which may be at maturity.

F-25

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities,
    excluding strategic investments, which were primarily
    reinvested, and resulting realized gains and losses were as
    follows (in millions):

The estimated fair value and amortized cost of securities,
    excluding strategic investments, available-for-sale by
    contractual maturity are as follows (in millions):

The average maturity of our marketable securities at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006 was 15 months and
    18 months, respectively.

Strategic
    Investments   

In 2007, we sold our share in one strategic investment for
    $99.5 million, which resulted in an $17.2 million
    gain. In 2006 and 2005, we did not sell any portion of strategic
    investments. Strategic investments are included in investments
    and other assets on the accompanying balance sheet.

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recognized $16.0 million,
    $30.5 million and $13.8 million in charges,
    respectively, for the impairment of strategic investments for
    declines in value that were determined to be
    other-than-temporary.

We hold other investments in equity securities of certain
    privately held biotechnology companies or biotechnology oriented
    venture capital funds. The cost basis of these securities at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006 is $52.9 million and
    $32.6 million, respectively. These securities are included
    in investments and other assets on the accompanying consolidated
    balance sheet.

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recorded $2.4 million,
    $3.9 million and $1.6 million, respectively, in
    charges for the impairment for certain of those investments that
    were determined to be other than temporary.

Forward
    Contracts   

We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge specific
    forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies. All
    foreign currency forward contracts in effect at
    December 31, 2007 had durations of 1 to 12 months.
    These contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges and
    accordingly, to the extent effective, any unrealized gains or
    losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are reported
    in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Realized gains
    and losses for the effective portion are recognized with the
    completion of the underlying hedge transaction. To the extent
    ineffective, hedge transaction gains and losses are reported in
    other income (expense).

The notional settlement amount of the foreign currency forward
    contracts outstanding at December 31, 2007 was
    approximately $409.2 million. The fair value of these
    contracts was a loss of $6.4 million and was included in
    other current liabilities at December 31, 2007. The
    notional settlement amount of the foreign currency forward

F-26

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

contracts outstanding at December 31, 2006 was
    approximately $293.2 million. The fair value of these
    contracts was a loss of $0.2 million and is included in
    other current liabilities at December 31, 2006.

In 2007, there was $2.6 million recognized in earnings as a
    loss due to hedge ineffectiveness. We recognized
    $13.1 million of losses in product revenue and no losses in
    royalty revenue for the settlement of certain effective cash
    flow hedge instruments through December 31, 2007. These
    settlements were recorded in the same period as the related
    forecasted transactions affecting earnings.

In 2006, there was $0.6 million recognized in earnings as a
    loss due to hedge ineffectiveness and $0.9 million
    recognized in earnings as a loss as a result of the
    discontinuance of cash flow hedge accounting because it was no
    longer probable that the hedge forecasted transaction would
    occur. We recognized $11.2 million of losses in product
    revenue for the settlement of certain effective cash flow hedge
    instruments through December 31, 2006. These settlements
    were recorded in the same period as the related forecasted
    transactions affecting earnings.

In 2005, there was $1.0 million recognized in earnings as a
    gain due to hedge ineffectiveness and $0.3 million
    recognized in earnings as a gain as a result of the
    discontinuance of cash flow hedge accounting because it was no
    longer probable that the hedge forecasted transaction would
    occur. We recognized $0.1 million of losses in product
    revenue and $0.2 million of losses in royalty revenue for
    the settlement of certain effective cash flow hedge instruments
    through December 31, 2005. These settlements were recorded
    in the same period as the related forecasted transactions
    affecting earnings.

4.    

Earnings
    per Share  

Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows
    (in millions):

F-27

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following amounts were not included in the calculation of
    net income per share because their effects were anti-dilutive
    (in millions):

As a result of the tender offer described in Note 20,
    Tender Offer, earnings per share for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 reflects on a weighted average basis the
    repurchase of 56,424,155 shares as of June 27, 2007,
    the date the obligation was incurred, in accordance with FASB
    Statement No. 150,  Accounting for Certain Financial
    Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and
    Equity , or SFAS 150.

5.    

Share-based
    Payments  

Share-based
    compensation expense   

For 2007, we recorded pre-tax share-based compensation expense
    of $123.1 million. For 2006, we recorded pre-tax share
    based compensation expense of $126.8 million. The expense
    for 2006 is net of a cumulative effect pre-tax adjustment of
    $5.6 million, or $3.8 million after-tax, resulting
    from the application of an estimated forfeiture rate for
    pre-2006 unvested restricted stock awards.

For 2007 and 2006 share based compensation expense reduced
    our results of operations as follows (in millions except for
    earnings per share):

F-28

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Share-based compensation expense and cost for 2007 and 2006 is
    as follows (in millions):

For 2007, we capitalized total costs of $4.7 million
    associated with share-based compensation costs to inventory and
    fixed assets. For 2006, we capitalized total costs of
    $3.3 million associated with share-based compensation costs
    to inventory and fixed assets.

In accordance with SFAS 123(R), windfall tax benefits from
    vesting of stock awards, exercises of stock options and ESPP
    participation of $69.7 million and $31.7 million were
    recorded as cash inflows from financing activities in our
    consolidated statement of cash flows for 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. This amount has been calculated in accordance with
    the alternative transition method described in FSP
    FAS 123(R)   3, which we adopted effective the
    fourth quarter of 2006.

The total amount of tax benefit realized during 2007 was
    $103.6 million. Cash received from the exercise of stock
    options in 2007 was approximately $471 million. The total
    amount of tax benefit realized during 2006 was
    $42.8 million. Cash received from the exercise of stock
    options in 2006 was approximately $131.8 million.

At December 31, 2007, unrecognized compensation costs
    relating to unvested share-based compensation was approximately
    $160 million. We expect to recognize the cost of these
    unvested awards over a weighted-average period of one year. In
    accordance with SFAS 123(R), deferred share-based
    compensation is no longer reflected as a separate component of
    shareholders  equity in the consolidated balance sheet. As
    a result, we reclassified our deferred share-based compensation
    of $42.9 million at December 31, 2005 to additional
    paid in capital during the first quarter of 2006.

Share-based
    Compensation Plans   

We have three share-based compensation plans pursuant to which
    awards are currently being made: (i) the Biogen Idec Inc.
    2006 Non-Employee Directors Equity Plan, or the
    2006 Directors Plan; (ii) the Biogen Idec Inc. 2005
    Omnibus Equity Plan, or the 2005 Omnibus Plan; and
    (iii) the Biogen Idec Inc. 1995 Employee Stock Purchase
    Plan, or ESPP. We have four share-based compensation plans
    pursuant to which outstanding awards have been made, but from
    which no further awards can or will be made: (i) the Idec
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation 1993 Non-Employee Directors Stock
    Option Plan, or the 1993 Directors Plan; (ii) the Idec
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan;
    (iii) the Biogen, Inc. 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option
    Plan; and (iv) the Biogen, Inc. 1987 Scientific Board Stock
    Option Plan. In addition, we have the Biogen Idec Inc. 2003
    Omnibus Equity Plan, or the 2003 Omnibus Plan, pursuant to which
    outstanding awards have been made. We have not made any awards
    from the 2003 Omnibus Plan since our stockholders approved the
    2005 Omnibus Plan and do not intend to make any awards from the
    2003 Omnibus Plan in the future.

F-29

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Directors Plan:   In May 2006, our stockholders
    approved the 2006 Directors Plan for share-based awards to
    our directors. Awards granted from the 2006 Directors Plan
    may include options, shares of restricted stock, restricted
    stock units, stock appreciation rights and other awards in such
    amounts and with such terms and conditions as may be determined
    by a committee of our Board of Directors, subject to the
    provisions of the plan. We have reserved a total of
    850,000 shares of common stock for issuance under the
    2006 Directors Plan. The 2006 Directors Plan provides
    that awards other than stock options and stock appreciation
    rights will be counted against the total number of shares
    reserved under the plan in a 1.5-to-1 ratio.

Omnibus Plans:   In June 2005, our stockholders
    approved the 2005 Omnibus Plan for share-based awards to our
    employees. Awards granted from the 2005 Omnibus Plan may include
    options, shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units,
    performance shares, shares of phantom stock, stock bonuses,
    stock appreciation rights and other awards in such amounts and
    with such terms and conditions as may be determined by a
    committee of our Board of Directors, subject to the provisions
    of the plan. Shares of common stock available for issuance under
    the 2005 Omnibus Plan consist of 15.0 million shares
    reserved for this purpose, plus shares of common stock that
    remained available for issuance under the 2003 Omnibus Plan on
    the date that our stockholders approved the 2005 Omnibus Plan,
    plus shares that are subject to awards under the 2003 Omnibus
    Plan which remain unissued upon the cancellation, surrender,
    exchange or termination of such awards. The 2005 Omnibus Plan
    provides that awards other than stock options and stock
    appreciation rights will be counted against the total number of
    shares available under the plan in a 1.5-to-1 ratio.

Stock
    Options   

All stock option grants to employees are for a ten-year term and
    generally vest one-fourth per year over four years on the
    anniversary of the date of grant, provided the employee remains
    continuously employed with us. Stock option grants to directors
    are for ten-year terms and generally vest as follows:
    (i) grants made on the date of a director s initial
    election to our Board of Directors vest one-third per year over
    three years on the anniversary of the date of grant, and
    (ii) grants made for service on our Board of Directors vest
    on the first anniversary of the date of grant, provided in each
    case that the director continues to serve on our Board of
    Directors through the vesting date. Options granted under all
    plans are exercisable at a price per share not less than the
    fair market value of the underlying common stock on the date of
    grant. The estimated fair value of options, including the effect
    of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the options 
    vesting periods. The fair value of the stock option grants
    awarded in 2007 and 2006 was estimated as of the date of grant
    using a Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the
    following weighted-average assumptions:

Expected volatility is based upon implied volatility for our
    exchange-traded options and other factors, including historical
    volatility. After assessing all available information on either
    historical volatility, implied volatility, or both, we have
    concluded that a combination of both historical and implied
    volatility provides the best estimate of expected volatility.
    The expected term of options granted is derived using assumed
    exercise rates based on historical exercise patterns and
    represents the period of time that options granted are expected
    to be outstanding. The risk-free interest rate used is
    determined by the market yield curve based upon risk-free
    interest rates established by the Federal Reserve, or non-coupon
    bonds that have maturities equal to the expected term. The
    dividend yield of zero is based upon the fact that we have not
    historically granted cash dividends, and do not expect

F-30

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

to issue dividends in the foreseeable future. Stock options
    granted prior to January 1, 2006 were valued based on the
    grant date fair value of those awards, using the Black-Scholes
    option pricing model, as previously calculated for pro-forma
    disclosures under SFAS 123. For 2007, we recorded
    $30.7 million of stock compensation cost related to stock
    options.

A summary of stock option activity is presented in the following
    table (shares are in thousands):

The total intrinsic values of options exercised in 2007, 2006
    and 2005 were $226.7 million, $92.5 million and $97.0
    million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic values of options
    outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006, were
    $102.7 million and $30.9 million, respectively. The
    weighted average remaining contractual terms for options
    outstanding at December 31, 2007 was 5.5 years.

Of the options outstanding, 12.3 million were exercisable
    at December 31, 2007. The exercisable options had a
    weighted-average exercise price of $50.54. The aggregate
    intrinsic value of options exercisable as of December 31,
    2007 and 2006 was $78.5 million and $11.6 million,
    respectively. The weighted average remaining contractual term
    for options outstanding and exercisable at December 31,
    2007 was 4.8 years.

Time-Vested
    Restricted Stock Units   

Time-vested restricted stock units, or RSUs, awarded to
    employees vest no sooner than one-third per year over three
    years on the anniversary of the date of grant, or upon the third
    anniversary of the date of the grant, provided the employee
    remains continuously employed with us. Shares of our common
    stock will be delivered to the employee upon vesting, subject to
    payment of applicable withholding taxes. Time-vested RSUs
    awarded to directors for service on our Board of Directors vest
    on the first anniversary of the date of grant, provided in each
    case that the director continues to serve on our Board of
    Directors through the vesting date. Shares of our common stock
    will be delivered to the director upon vesting. The fair value
    of all time-vested RSUs is based on the market value of our
    stock on the date of grant. Compensation expense, including the
    effect of forfeitures, is recognized over the applicable service
    period. For 2007, we recorded $75.2 million of stock
    compensation cost related to time-vested RSUs.

F-31

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

A summary of time-vested RSU activity is presented in the
    following table (shares are in thousands):

The weighted average remaining contractual term for the
    time-vested RSUs was 1.0 years at December 31, 2007.

Performance-Based
    Restricted Stock Units   

In the first quarter of 2007, our Board of Directors awarded
    30,000 RSUs to our President, Research and Development, under
    the 2005 Omnibus Plan, subject to certain performance criteria.
    The RSUs will convert into shares of our common stock, subject
    to attainment of certain performance goals and the
    employee s continued employment through December 31,
    2007. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2007, our Board
    of Directors awarded 90,000 RSUs to our President, Research and
    Development, under the 2005 Omnibus Plan, subject to certain
    performance criteria. We apply graded vesting when accounting
    for these RSU s and the fair value will be based on the
    market price on the date of vesting. These RSUs will vest
    annually in equal increments of 30,000 shares over three
    years and convert into shares of our common stock, subject to
    attainment of certain performance goals and the employee s
    continued employment through the three performance periods,
    which end December 31, 2008, December 31, 2009 and
    September 30, 2010, respectively.

In the first quarter of 2006, our Board of Directors awarded
    100,000 RSUs to our CEO, under the 2005 Omnibus Plan, subject to
    certain 2006 financial performance criteria. In February 2007,
    our Board of Directors determined that the performance criteria
    had been attained and that 100,000 RSUs would convert into
    shares of our common stock. A total of 58,250 shares were
    issued, reflecting the fact that certain shares were withheld
    for income tax purposes.

During the third quarter of 2005, we granted 1.18 million
    performance-based RSUs, to be settled in shares of our common
    stock, to a group of approximately 200 senior employees
    excluding our CEO. The grants were made under the 2005 Omnibus
    Plan as part of an initiative to retain certain key personnel.
    On September 14, 2006, 70% of the RSUs for all employees
    still in active employment, or 758,262 shares, vested as
    the required performance goals had been determined to have been
    achieved. A total of 510,859 shares were issued, reflecting
    the fact that certain shares were withheld for income tax
    purposes.

On March 14, 2007, the remaining 30% of the RSUs granted
    during the third quarter of 2005 were scheduled to vest and
    convert into shares if the performance goals were attained and
    the employee was still in active employment.. On March 14,
    2007, 258,387 shares vested based on the determination by
    our Board of Directors that approximately 83% of these RSUs had
    been earned. A total of 172,054 shares were issued,
    reflecting the fact that certain shares were withheld for income
    tax purposes.

F-32

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

For 2007, we recorded stock compensation cost of approximately
    $5.0 million related to performance-based restricted stock
    units. For 2006, we recorded compensation charges of
    approximately $33.6 million related to performance-based
    restricted stock units. Compensation cost is adjusted quarterly
    for subsequent changes in the outcome of performance-related
    conditions until the vesting date.

A summary of performance-based RSU activity is presented in the
    following table (shares are in thousands):

The weighted average remaining contractual term for the
    performance-based RSUs was 1.5 years at December 31,
    2007.

Restricted
    Stock Awards   

In 2005, we awarded restricted common stock to our employees
    under the 2005 Omnibus Plan and the 2003 Omnibus Plan at no cost
    to the employees. The restricted stock awards, or RSAs, granted
    under the 2003 Omnibus Plan will vest in full on the third
    anniversary of the date of grant, provided the employee remains
    continuously employed with us. The restricted stock awards, or
    RSAs, granted under the 2005 Omnibus Plan will vest at a rate of
    approximately one-third per year over three years on the
    anniversary of the date of grant, provided the employee remains
    continuously employed with us. During the vesting period, the
    recipient of the restricted stock has full voting rights as a
    stockholder, even though the restricted stock remains subject to
    transfer restrictions and will generally be forfeited upon
    termination of employment by the recipient prior to vesting.

For 2006, we recorded $21.9 million of stock compensation
    cost related to restricted stock awards, prior to a first
    quarter pre-tax cumulative effect
     catch-up 
    credit of $5.6 million, or $3.8 million after-tax,
    resulting from the application of an estimated forfeiture rate
    for prior period unvested restricted stock awards. For 2007, we
    recorded $11.7 million of stock compensation charges
    related to restricted stock awards. The fair value of all
    time-vested RSAs is based on the market value of our stock on
    the date of grant. Compensation expense, including the effect of
    forfeitures, is recognized over the applicable service period.

F-33

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

A summary of restricted stock award activity is presented in the
    following table (shares are in thousands):

The weighted average remaining contractual term for the RSAs was
    0.04 years at December 31, 2007.

ESPP  

Under the terms of the ESPP, employees can elect to have up to
    ten percent of their annual compensation (subject to certain
    dollar limits) withheld to purchase shares of our common stock.
    The purchase price of the common stock is equal to 85% of the
    lower of the fair market value of the common stock on the
    enrollment or purchase date under a look-back provision. In June
    2005, our stockholders approved the amendment and restatement of
    the ESPP, including an increase in the number of shares
    available for issuance under the ESPP from 4.2 million to
    6.2 million shares. At December 31, 2007, a total of
    4.9 million shares of our common stock were available for
    issuance. During 2007, 2006, and 2005, 0.5 million,
    0.5 million and 0.6 million shares, respectively, were
    issued under the ESPP. We utilize the Black-Scholes model to
    calculate the fair value of these discounted purchases. The fair
    value of the look-back provision plus the 15% discount amount is
    recognized as compensation expense over the purchase period. We
    apply a graded vesting approach because the plan provides for
    multiple purchase periods and is, in substance, a series of
    linked awards. In 2007 and 2006, we recorded stock compensation
    cost of approximately $5.2 million and $5.2 million,
    respectively.

Cash received under the ESPP in 2007 was approximately
    $18.2 million. Cash received under the ESPP in 2006 was
    approximately $15.2 million.

F-34

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Pro-forma
    Disclosure   

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and
    earnings per share if we were to have applied the fair-value
    based method to account for all stock-based awards for 2005 (in
    millions, except per share amounts).

The fair value of each option granted under our stock-based
    compensation plans and each purchase right granted under our
    employee stock purchase plan is estimated on the date of grant
    using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
    weighted average assumptions:

The effects of applying SFAS 123 in this pro forma
    disclosure are not indicative of future amounts. SFAS 123
    did not apply to awards prior to 1995, and additional awards in
    future years are anticipated.

Other   

On December 6, 2005, our Board of Directors approved the
    acceleration of vesting of unvested stock options then
    outstanding having an exercise price per share of $55.00 or
    higher, granted under our stock option plans that were held by
    current employees, including executive officers. Shares of
    common stock acquired by our executive officers upon the
    exercise of stock options whose vesting was so accelerated
    generally are subject to transfer restrictions until such time
    as the stock options otherwise would have vested. Options held
    by our non-employee directors were excluded from this vesting
    acceleration. As a result, the vesting of options granted
    predominantly from 2001 to 2005 with respect to approximately
    4,518,809 shares of our common stock was accelerated.

F-35

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The purpose of this acceleration was to eliminate future
    compensation expense that we would otherwise have recognized in
    our results of operation upon adoption of SFAS 123(R) in
    2006. The approximate future expense eliminated by the
    acceleration, based on a Black-Scholes calculation, was
    estimated to be approximately $93.1 million between 2006
    and 2009 on a pre-tax basis. The acceleration did not result in
    any compensation expense being recorded in 2005.

6.    

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

The accumulated balances in comprehensive income (loss) were as
    follows (in millions):

See Note 12, Employee Benefit Plans, for discussion of
    unfunded status of pension and postretirement benefit plans.

7.    

Indebtedness  

Notes payable consists of the following (in millions):

In June 2007, in connection with the tender offer described in
    Note 20, Tender Offer, we entered into a
    $1,500.0 million term loan facility. On July 2, 2007,
    in connection with the funding of the tender offer, we borrowed
    the full $1,500.0 million available under this facility. We
    expect to repay this term loan facility in 2008 with proceeds
    from an offering of long term debt securities.

F-36

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

In June 2007, we also entered into a five year $400 million
    Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility, which we may use for
    working capital and general corporate purposes. No amounts have
    been drawn under this facility.

In May 2007, holders of the senior notes due 2032 with an
    aggregate principal amount at maturity of $10.1 million,
    exercised their right under the indenture governing the senior
    notes to require us to repurchase the notes. We paid
    $6.6 million in cash to repurchase substantially all of the
    senior notes.

In January and July 2007, holders of the subordinated notes due
    2019 with an aggregate principal amount at maturity of
    $70.5 million and $4.5 million, respectively,
    exercised their right under the indenture governing the notes to
    require us to issue shares of common stock. We issued
    2.8 million and 0.2 million, shares of common stock,
    respectively.

During 2006 we completed the following significant financing
    transactions:

In October 2006, Biogen-Dompe SRL a consolidated joint venture
    in which we are a 50% partner, obtained a 24 million Euros
    line of credit from us and Domp  Farmaceutici SpA, our
    partner.

In December 2006, in connection with the settlement of various
    agreements associated with Fumedica, we entered into two notes
    payable, the aggregate amount of which, at present value, was
    47.7 million Swiss Francs ($39.2 million).

The following is a summary description of our principal
    indebtedness as of December 31, 2007.

Term
    loan facility   

In June 2007, in connection with the tender offer described in
    Note 20, Tender Offer, we entered into a
    $1,500.0 million term loan facility. The term loan facility
    has a term of 364 days and bears interest at a rate of
    LIBOR plus 45 basis points or a rate based on the prime
    lending rate of the agent bank at our option. The rate in effect
    on December 31, 2007 was 5.54%. The terms of this term loan
    facility include various covenants, including financial
    covenants that require us to meet a maximum leverage ratio and
    under certain circumstances, an interest coverage ratio. As of
    December 31, 2007 we were in compliance with these
    covenants. We expect to repay this term loan facility in 2008
    with proceeds from an offering of long-term debt securities.

Revolving
    credit facility   

In June 2007, we entered into a five year $400 million
    Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility, which we may use for
    working capital and general corporate purposes. This credit
    facility bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis
    points or a rate based on the prime lending rate of the agent
    bank, at our option. The terms of this revolving credit facility
    include various covenants, including financial covenants that
    require us to meet a maximum leverage ratio and under certain
    circumstances, an interest coverage ratio. Since the inception
    of the credit facility, there have been no borrowings
    outstanding under this credit facility and we were in compliance
    with these covenants.

Subordinated
    notes   

As of December 31, 2007, we have $0.2 million of the
    subordinated notes due 2019 outstanding, representing an
    aggregate principal amount at maturity of $0.4 million. The
    subordinated notes are zero coupon and were priced with a yield
    to maturity of 5.5%. Each $1,000 aggregate principal face value
    subordinated note is convertible at the holder s option at
    any time through maturity into 40.404 shares of our common
    stock. The remaining holders of the subordinated notes may
    require us to purchase the subordinated notes on
    February 16, 2009 or 2014 at a price equal to the issue
    price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of
    purchase with us having the option to repay the subordinated
    notes plus accrued original issue discount in cash, common stock
    or a combination of cash and stock. We have the right to redeem,
    at a price equal to the issue price plus the accrued original
    issue discount to the date of redemption, all or a portion of
    the subordinated notes for cash at any time.

F-37

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Biogen-Dompe   

As of December 31, 2007, Biogen-Dompe SRL, a consolidated
    joint venture, has a loan balance of 12 million Euros
    ($17.5 million). This balance represents a line of credit
    from us and Domp  Farmaceutici SpA of 24 million
    Euros, half of which has been eliminated as it is an
    intercompany loan for purposes of presenting our consolidated
    financial position. Borrowings are to be made equally between
    the partners, and any repayments are to be paid in a similar
    manner. The interest rate of the line of credit is at a rate of
    3 month Euro LIBOR plus 25 basis points, and was 5.10%
    at December 31, 2007. The interest rate is reset quarterly
    and payable quarterly in arrears. Any borrowings on the line of
    credit are due, in full, June 1, 2009.

Notes
    Payable to Fumedica   

As of December 31, 2007, the notes payable to Fumedica have
    a present value of 50.5 million Swiss Francs ($44.6 million).
    The notes, which were entered into in connection with the
    settlement of various agreements associated with Fumedica, are
    non-interest bearing, have been discounted for financial
    statement presentation purposes and are being accreted at a rate
    of 5.75% and are payable in series of payments over the period
    from 2008 to 2018. See Note 2, Acquisitions and
    Dispositions.

Debt
    Maturity   

As of December 31, 2007, our total debt matures as follows
    (in millions):

Fair
    Values   

At December 31, 2007, the fair values of our debt
    instruments were as follows (in millions):

The fair value of the debt is estimated based on market prices
    for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered
    for debt of the same maturity.

F-38

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

8.    

Intangible
    Assets and Goodwill  

Intangible assets and goodwill, net of accumulated amortization,
    impairment charges and adjustments, are as follows (in millions):

Intangibles,
    other than Goodwill   

In 2007, assembled workforce increased by $0.7 million as a
    result of the acquisition of Syntonix.

In 2006, core/developed technology increased by
    $26.4 million as a result of the acquisition of Fumapharm.
    The assembled workforce intangible asset increased
    $1.4 million as a result of the acquisition of Conforma and
    we obtained $11.1 million of distribution rights in
    connection with the buy out of an agreement with Fumedica. See
    Note 2, Acquisitions and Dispositions, for further
    discussion of these transactions.

During 2005, we recorded impairment charges of $7.9 million
    related to certain core technology and related to AVONEX in
    Japan and $5.7 million related to ZEVALIN patents. The
    AVONEX charge arose as a result of our decision to terminate
    certain clinical trials. As a result of the annual impairment
    analysis, the ZEVALIN patents were determined to be impaired. In
    both cases the charge reduced our carrying value to estimated
    net realizable value and was recorded as additional amortization
    expense.

Amortization expense was $257.5 million,
    $267.0 million, and $302.3 million for 2007, 2006, and
    2005, respectively.

Amortization on intangible assets is expected to be in the range
    of approximately $234.8 million to $262.4 million for
    each of the next five years.

Goodwill   

Goodwill decreased $17.4 million in 2007, primarily as a
    result of certain tax adjustments. Approximately
    $9.1 million of the adjustments relate to the adoption of
    FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty
    in Income Taxes ,  an Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109 , or FIN 48. (See Note 14, Income
    Taxes, for discussion on income tax). Goodwill increased
    $18.5 million in 2006, due to the acquisition of Fumapharm.
    We also recorded an increase to goodwill of $5.4 million to
    correct reserves for product returns at the time of the Merger
    in 2003. See discussion of our revenue recognition policy in
    Note 1, Business Overview and Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies, for additional discussion of this
    adjustment.

F-39

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

9.    

Property,
    Plant and Equipment  

Property, plant and equipment consists of the following (in
    millions):

Depreciation expense was $122.6 million,
    $108.4 million, and $135.8 million for 2007, 2006, and
    2005, respectively.

During 2007 and 2006, we capitalized to construction in progress
    approximately $10.1 million and $2.1 million,
    respectively, of interest costs primarily related to the
    development of our large-scale biologic manufacturing facility
    in Hiller d, Denmark.

At December 31, 2007, $300.4 million of the
    construction in progress balance was related to construction of
    Hiller d, Denmark. The first phase is complete and involved
    the construction of an administrative building, partial
    construction of a bulk manufacturing facility, a labeling and
    packaging facility and a facility to provide utilities to the
    Hiller d campus. The administrative building was in use in
    2006, and the label and packaging facility and lab facility and
    a portion of the utilities facility were placed into service in
    the first quarter of 2007. The second phase of the project
    involves the completion and fit out of a large-scale
    manufacturing facility and construction of a warehouse, and is
    expected to be ready for commercial production in 2009. The
    utilities facility is expected to be in full use upon completion
    of the second phase.

See Note 24, Facility Impairments and Loss (Gain) on
    Disposition, of details of impairment charges taken.

10.    

Other
    current assets  

Other current assets consist of the following (in millions):

F-40

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

11.    

Accrued
    expenses and other  

Accrued expenses and other consists of the following (in
    millions):

12.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

401(k)
    Employee Savings Plan   

We maintain a 401(k) Savings Plan, or 401(k) Plan, which is
    available to substantially all U.S. regular employees over
    the age of 21. Participants may make voluntary contributions. We
    make matching contributions according to the 401(k) Plan s
    matching formula. The matching contributions vested over four
    years of service by the employee. Beginning in January 2008, all
    past and current matching contributions will vest immediately.
    Participant contributions vest immediately. The 401(k) Plan also
    holds certain transition contributions on behalf of participants
    who previously participated in the Biogen, Inc. Retirement Plan.
    Employer contributions for 2007, 2006 and 2005 totaled
    $17.8 million, $12.0 million, and $16.8 million,
    respectively.

Deferred
    Compensation Plan   

We maintain a non-qualified deferred compensation plan that
    allows a select group of management and highly compensated
    U.S. employees to defer a portion of their compensation and
    that provides for certain company credits, known as the
    Restoration Match, to participants  accounts. This
    arrangement is known as the Supplemental Savings Plan, or SSP.
    The deferred compensation amounts are accrued when earned. Such
    deferred compensation is distributable in cash in accordance
    with the rules of the SSP. Deferred compensation amounts under
    such plan at December 31, 2007 and 2006, totaled
    approximately $50.3 million and $47.8 million,
    respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities in
    the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The SSP also holds
    certain transition contributions on behalf of participants who
    previously participated in the Biogen Inc. Retirement Plan. The
    Restoration Match and transition contributions vested over four
    and seven years of service, respectively, by the employee.
    Beginning in 2008, the company credits vest immediately.
    Participant contributions vest immediately. Distributions to
    participants can be either in one lump sum payment or annual
    installments as elected by the participants.

Retiree
    Medical Plan   

In 2003, we began to provide medical plan benefits to retirees
    under the age of 65. Net periodic (benefit) cost for 2007, 2006,
    and 2005, was $(6.7) million, $1.4, million and
    $2.0 million, respectively. In 2007, we recognized a
    benefit, which was primarily related to a modification of the
    plan in 2007. In 2006 and 2005, the majority of the expense was
    related to service cost. Our liability at December 31, 2006
    related to this benefit arrangement was approximately
    $6.8 million. The plan terms were modified in 2007 and
    accordingly, no liability remained at December 31, 2007.

F-41

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Pension
    Plan   

We currently maintain two retiree benefit plans: a Supplemental
    Employee Retirement Plan and a defined benefit plan for certain
    employees in Germany.

The obligations under the remaining plans totaled
    $5.0 million and $4.9 million at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

Net periodic pension cost for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was
    $1.3 million, $1.2 million, and $1.0 million,
    respectively. The majority of the net period pension costs
    related to service cost.

Accounting
    Policy Change   

In connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
    for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
    88, 106, and 132(R) , or SFAS 158, we recorded an
    increase to the liability for the pension and post-retirement
    medical plans of $1.2 million in 2006, with a corresponding
    increase in accumulated other comprehensive income.

13.    

Other
    Income (Expense), Net  

Total other income (expense), net, consists of the following (in
    millions):

Other, net included the following (in millions):

F-42

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Income
    tax expense   

The components of income before income taxes and of income tax
    are as follows (in millions):

Deferred
    tax assets and liabilities   

Deferred tax assets (liabilities) are comprised of the following
    (in millions):

F-43

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Tax
    Rate   

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to
    the effective tax rate is as follows:

At December 31, 2007, we had net operating losses and
    general business credit carryforwards for federal income tax
    purposes of approximately $72.1 million and
    $3.2 million, respectively, which begin to expire in 2020.
    Additionally, for state income tax purposes, we had net
    operating loss carryforwards of approximately
    $49.4 million, which have no prescribed expiration date.
    For state income tax purposes, we also had research credit
    carryforwards of approximately $3.5 million, of which
    approximately $1.2 million will begin to expire in 2015 and
    the remainder have no prescribed expiration date.

In assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets, we
    have considered whether it is more likely than not that some
    portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
    The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent
    upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods
    in which those temporary differences become deductible. In
    making this determination, under the applicable financial
    reporting standards, we are allowed to consider the scheduled
    reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable
    income, and tax planning strategies. Our estimates of future
    taxable income take into consideration, among other items, our
    estimates of future income tax deductions related to the
    exercise of stock options. Based upon the level of historical
    taxable income and income tax liability and projections for
    future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred tax
    assets are utilizable, we believe it is more likely than not
    that we will realize the benefits of our entire deferred tax
    assets. In the event that actual results differ from our
    estimates or we adjust our estimates in future periods, we may
    need to establish a valuation allowance, which could materially
    impact our financial position and results of operations.

As of December 31, 2007, undistributed foreign earnings of
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    included in consolidated retained earnings aggregated
    approximately $1,111 million, exclusive of earnings that
    would result in little or no net income tax expense under
    current U.S. tax law. We intend to reinvest these earnings
    indefinitely in operations outside the U.S. It is not
    practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might
    be payable if such earnings were remitted to the U.S.

On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of
    2004, or the Act, was signed into law. The Act created a
    temporary incentive, which expired on December 31, 2005,
    for U.S. multinational companies to repatriate accumulated
    income earned outside the U.S. at an effective tax rate
    that could be as low as 5.25%. On December 21, 2004, the
    FASB issued FASB staff position
     109-2, 
     Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings
    Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of
    2004 , or FSP
     FAS 109-2. 
    FSP
     FAS 109-2 
    allowed companies additional time to evaluate the effect of the
    law on whether unrepatriated foreign earnings continue to
    qualify for the Financial Statement of Accounting Standards
    No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes , or
    SFAS 109

F-44

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

exception to recognizing deferred tax liabilities. A total
    distribution of $196 million was made by one of our foreign
    subsidiaries to one of our U.S. subsidiaries in December
    2005. We incurred a charge to our consolidated results of
    operations of approximately $11.0 million in the fourth
    quarter of 2005 for the tax cost related to the distribution.

IRS
    Settlement   

During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Internal Revenue Service,
    or IRS, completed its examination of legacy Biogen, Inc. s,
    now Biogen Idec MA, Inc. s, consolidated federal income tax
    returns for the fiscal years 2001 and 2002 and issued an
    assessment. We subsequently paid the majority of the amounts
    assessed and are appealing one issue. As a result of this and
    other income tax audit activity, Biogen Idec MA, Inc. reassessed
    its liability for income tax contingencies to reflect the IRS
    findings and recorded a $13.8 million reduction in these
    liabilities during the fourth quarter of 2005. The corresponding
    effects of the adjustments to the liability for income tax
    contingencies through 2004 resulted in a reduction in goodwill
    of $20.7 million for amounts related to periods prior to
    the Merger and an increase in income tax expense associated with
    continuing operations of $6.9 million.

During the second quarter of 2007, the IRS completed its
    examination of Biogen Idec Inc. s consolidated federal
    income tax returns for the fiscal years 2003 and 2004 and issued
    an assessment. We subsequently paid amounts related to issues
    agreed to with the IRS and are appealing several issues. As a
    result of this examination activity, we reassessed our liability
    for income tax contingencies to reflect the IRS findings and
    recorded a $14.7 million reduction in our liabilities for
    income tax contingencies during the second quarter of 2007.

Contingency   

On September 12, 2006, we received a Notice of Assessment
    from the Massachusetts Department of Revenue for
    $38.9 million, which includes penalties and interest, with
    respect to the 2001, 2002 and 2003 tax years. We believe that we
    have meritorious defenses to the proposed adjustment and will
    vigorously oppose the assessment. We believe that the assessment
    does not impact the level of liabilities for income tax
    contingencies. However, there is a possibility that we may not
    prevail in all of our assertions. If this is resolved
    unfavorably in the future, this could have a material impact on
    our future effective tax rate and our results of operations in
    the period in which an event would occur.

Adoption
    of FASB Interpretation No. 48   

Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48.
    FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
    taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in
    accordance with SFAS 109. FIN 48 also prescribes a
    recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the
    financial statement recognition and measurement of each tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As a
    result of the adoption of FIN 48, we recognized a reduction
    in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of
    $14.2 million, which was recorded as a $1.8 million
    reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of our accumulated
    deficit, a $9.1 million reduction in goodwill and a
    $3.3 million increase in our deferred tax liability.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in millions):

F-45

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at
    December 31, 2007 and January 1, 2007, are
    $110.5 million and $98.2 million (net of the federal
    benefit on state issues), respectively, of unrecognized tax
    benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective income
    tax rate in any future periods. We do not anticipate any
    significant changes in our positions in the next twelve months.

We recognize interest and penalties accrued related to
    unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. During 2007 and
    2006, we recognized approximately $14.5 million and
    $11.4 million in interest. Additionally, during 2007, we
    reduced our interest accrual by $3.3 million due to the
    completion of an IRS examination as described below. We had
    accrued approximately $31.6 million and $20.3 million
    for the payment of interest at December 31, 2007 and
    January 1, 2007, respectively.

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal
    jurisdiction, and various states and foreign jurisdictions. With
    few exceptions, we are no longer subject to U.S. federal,
    state and local, or
     non-U.S. income 
    tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2001.

In connection with the adoption of FIN 48, we reclassified
    approximately $113 million in reserves for uncertain tax
    positions from current taxes payable to long-term liabilities.

15.    

Research
    Collaborations  

In connection with our research and development efforts, we have
    entered into various collaboration arrangements which provide us
    with rights to develop, produce and market products using
    certain know-how, technology and patent rights maintained by the
    parties. Terms of the various license agreements may require us
    to make milestone payments upon the achievement of certain
    product development objectives and pay royalties on future
    sales, if any, of commercial products resulting from the
    collaboration.

Neurimmune   

In November 2007, we entered into an agreement with Neurimmune
    SubOne AG, or Neurimmune, for the worldwide development and
    commercialization of human antibodies for the treatment of
    Alzheimer s disease, or AD. Neurimmune will conduct
    research to identify potential therapeutic antibodies and we
    will be responsible for the development and commercialization of
    all products. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid a
    $2.0 million upfront payment and may pay up to
    $378.0 million in milestone payments, as well as a royalty
    on net sales of any resulting commercial products. We also will
    reimburse Neurimmune for certain research and development costs
    incurred. We have determined that we are the primary beneficiary
    under FIN 46(R). As a result, we have consolidated the
    results of Neurimmune and recorded an IPR D charge of
    $34.3 million. The amount allocated to IPR D relates
    to the development of the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody. At the effective date of the agreement, this compound
    had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative
    future use. We have allocated the $34.3 million to the
    minority interest, as the charge represents the fair value of
    the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody retained by the minority interest holders. As a result,
    we have recorded a credit in minority interest, which is
    recorded in other income (expense). Through December 31,
    2007, we have spent an additional $0.6 million to develop
    the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody. We expect to incur approximately an additional
    $310 million to develop the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody for all indications under development. The estimated
    revenues from the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody are expected to be recognized beginning in 2017. A
    discount rate of 15% was used to value this project, which we
    believe to be commensurate with the stage of development of the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody and the uncertainties in the economic estimates
    described above.

Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC   

In August 2007, our agreement with Cardiokine Biopharma LLC
    became effective. The agreement is for the joint development of
    lixivaptan, an oral compound for the potential treatment of
    hyponatremia in patients with

F-46

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

congestive heart failure. We will be responsible for the global
    commercialization of lixivaptan and Cardiokine Biopharma LLC has
    an option for limited co-promotion in the U.S.

Under the terms of the agreement, we paid a $50.0 million
    upfront payment and will pay up to $170.0 million in
    milestone payments for successful development and global
    commercialization of lixivaptan, as well as royalties on
    commercial sales. The $50.0 million is reflected as
    research and development expense in the accompanying
    consolidated statement of income. We have determined that we are
    the primary beneficiary under FIN 46(R). As a result, we
    have consolidated the results of Cardiokine Biopharma LLC and
    recorded an IPR D charge of approximately $30 million.
    The amount allocated to IPR D relates to the development of
    lixivaptan. At the effective date of the agreement, this
    compound had not reached technological feasibility and had no
    alternative future use. We have allocated the approximately
    $30 million to the minority interest, as the charge
    represents the fair value of the lixivaptan compound retained by
    the minority interest holders. As a result, we recorded a credit
    in minority interest, which is recorded in other income
    (expense). Through December 31, 2007, we have spent an
    additional $15.5 million to develop lixivaptan since the
    agreement became effective. We expect to incur approximately an
    additional $260 million to develop lixivaptan for all
    indications under development. The estimated revenues from
    lixivaptan are expected to be recognized beginning in 2011. A
    discount rate of 11% was used to value this project, which we
    believe to be commensurate with the stage of development of
    lixivaptan and the uncertainties in the economic estimates
    described above.

mondo   

On September 14, 2006, we entered into an exclusive
    collaboration and license agreement with mondoBIOTECH, AG, or
    mondo, a private Swiss biotechnology company, to develop,
    manufacture and commercialize Aviptadil, a clinical compound for
    the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, or PAH. In
    accordance with the agreement, we will be responsible for the
    global manufacturing, clinical development, regulatory approval
    and commercialization of Aviptadil. We finalized the development
    plan for Aviptadil and had mondo initiate additional clinical
    work in 2007.

Under the terms of the agreement, we paid mondo a
    $7.5 million upfront payment and will pay up to
    $30.0 million in milestones payments for successful
    development and commercialization of Aviptadil in PAH in the
    U.S. and Europe, as well as royalty payments on commercial
    sales. The $7.5 million upfront amount was recorded as
    research and development expense in 2006. Through
    December 31, 2007, we have spent an additional
    $15.4 million on the development of Aviptadil and expect to
    incur an additional $143.5 million to develop Aviptadil. We
    have determined that we are the primary beneficiary under
    FIN 46(R) and as a result, we consolidate the results of
    mondo.

Additionally, we have indicated our intention to make a minority
    equity investment of $5.0 million in mondo in the event
    that it undertakes an initial public offering.

Alnylam   

In September 2006, we entered into a collaboration agreement
    with Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Alnylam, related to
    discovery and development of RNAi therapeutics for the potential
    treatment of PML.

Under the terms of the collaboration, we and Alnylam will
    initially conduct investigative research into the potential of
    using RNAi technology to develop up to three therapeutics to
    treat PML. Of the therapeutics presented, we will select one
    development candidate and one back up candidate and will be
    responsible for the development and commercialization of the
    selected candidate. We would also have the option to develop and
    commercialize the backup candidate at our discretion. We will
    fund all research and development activities.

We paid Alnylam an upfront payment of $5.0 million and
    agreed to additional payments of up to $51.3 million in
    milestone payments, plus royalties in the event of successful
    development and utilization of any product resulting

F-47

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

from the collaboration. The $5.0 million upfront payment
    was recorded as research and development expense in 2006.

UCB   

In September 2006, we entered into a global collaboration with
    UCB, S.A., or UCB, to jointly develop and commercialize CDP323
    for the treatment of relapsing-remitting MS and other potential
    indications. CDP323 is an orally active small molecule alpha-4
    integrin inhibitor in Phase 2 clinical trials.

Under terms of the agreement, we paid UCB an upfront payment of
    $30.0 million and agreed to make development milestone
    payments to UCB for the first indication of up to
    $93.0 million, with total milestone payments of up to
    $71.3 million payable for any additional indications. We
    will also pay UCB up to $75.0 million in commercialization
    milestones and will contribute significantly to clinical costs
    for Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies. All commercialization costs and
    profits will be shared equally. The $30.0 million upfront
    payment was recorded as research and development expense in 2006.

PDL   

In August 2005, we entered in a collaborative agreement with PDL
    BioPharma, Inc., or PDL, for the joint development, manufacture
    and commercialization of three Phase 2 antibody products. Under
    this agreement, we and PDL will share in the development and
    commercialization of Daclizumab in MS and indications other than
    transplant and respiratory diseases, and the development and
    commercialization of M200, or volociximab, and HuZAF, or
    fontolizumab, in all indications. Fontolizumab was discontinued
    during 2006. Both companies will share equally the costs of all
    development activities and all operating profits from each
    collaboration product within the U.S. and Europe. We paid
    PDL a non-refundable upfront licensing fee of $40.0 million
    for these product candidates, which we concluded had no
    alternative future uses and was therefore included in research
    and development expenses in 2005. We also accrued
    $10.0 million in research and development expense in 2005
    for future payments that were determined to be unavoidable. The
    terms of the collaborative agreement require us to make certain
    development and commercialization milestone payments upon the
    achievement of certain program objectives totaling up to
    $660.0 million over the life of the agreement, of which
    $560.0 million relates to development and
    $100.0 million relates to the commercialization of
    collaboration products.

In addition to the collaborative agreement, we purchased
    approximately $100.0 million of common stock, or 3.5% of
    its common stock, from PDL. We recorded an impairment charge of
    $18.3 million during 2006 to reflect an other than
    temporary impairment in the value of the stock we own. In 2007,
    we sold our entire investment in PDL for $99.5 million,
    resulting in a gain of $17.2 million.

Sunesis   

In December 2002, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Sunesis, related to the
    discovery and development of oral therapeutics for the treatment
    of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. In August 2004, we
    entered into a collaborative agreement with Sunesis to discover
    and develop small molecule cancer therapeutics targeting
    primarily kinases. Under the agreement, we acquired exclusive
    licenses to develop and commercialize certain compounds
    resulting from the collaboration. Upon signing the agreement, we
    paid Sunesis a non-refundable upfront license fee of
    $7.0 million, which was recorded in research and
    development expenses in 2004. During 2005, we recorded
    $1.0 million to research and development expense for
    milestones achieved through the collaboration with Sunesis, of
    which $0.5 million was paid to Sunesis in 2005. We have
    committed to paying Sunesis additional amounts upon the
    completion of certain future research milestones and first and
    second indication development milestones. If all the milestones
    were to be achieved based on our plan of research, we would be
    required to pay up to an additional $302.0 million to
    Sunesis, excluding royalties.

F-48

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Under the terms of the agreements, we purchased approximately
    4.2 million shares of preferred stock of Sunesis for
    $20.0 million and, in September 2005, we purchased
    $5.0 million of common stock of Sunesis as part of their
    initial public offering, or IPO. At the time of the IPO, our
    preferred stock was converted into shares of Sunesis common
    stock and, based on the IPO valuation, we wrote-down the value
    of our investment in Sunesis by $4.6 million as we had
    determined that the impairment was other than temporary.
    Following the IPO, we owned approximately 2.9 million
    shares, or 9.9% of the common stock. We recorded impairment
    charges of $7.4 million and $7.2 million during 2007
    and 2006, respectively, to reflect an other than temporary
    impairments in the value of the stock we own. We now hold a
    total of 2.9 million shares of Sunesis, representing 8% of
    total shares outstanding. Our investment in Sunesis is included
    in investments and other assets and has a fair value of
    $5.8 million at December 31, 2007.

Vernalis   

In June 2004, we entered into a collaborative research and
    development agreement with Vernalis plc, or Vernalis, aimed at
    advancing research into Vernalis  adenosine A2A receptor
    antagonist program, which targets Parkinson s disease and
    other central nervous system disorders. Under the agreement, we
    received exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize
    Vernalis  lead compound, BIIB014, formerly V2006. We paid
    Vernalis an initial license fee of $10.0 million in July
    2004, which was recorded in research and development expenses in
    2004. Terms of the collaborative agreement may require us to
    make milestone payments upon the achievement of certain program
    objectives and pay royalties on future sales, if any, of
    commercial products resulting from the collaboration. In June
    2004, we made an investment of $5.5 million through
    subscription for approximately 6.2 million new Vernalis
    common shares, representing 4.19% of Vernalis 
    post-financing issued share capital, and committed to purchase
    an additional $4.0 million in the event of future Vernalis
    financing. In March 2005, we purchased approximately
    1.4 million additional shares under a qualified offering
    for $1.8 million, which fully satisfies our investment
    obligation to Vernalis. We paid development milestones of
    $3.0 million in 2006. If all the milestones were to be
    achieved, we would be required to pay up to an additional
    $85.0 million, excluding royalties, over the remaining life
    of the agreement. We account for our investment in Vernalis
    using the cost method of accounting, subject to periodic review
    of impairment. In 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of
    $6.3 million, representing an other than temporary
    investment in the stock we own. We now hold a total of
    approximately 7.6 million shares of Vernalis, representing
    2% of total shares outstanding. Our investment in Vernalis is
    included in investments and other assets and has a fair value of
    $0.9 million at December 31, 2007.

MPM   

In May 2006, we became a limited partner in MPM Bioventures IV-
    Strategic Fund, LP, a limited partnership that invests in
    entities that are engaged in the research, development,
    manufacture, marketing
     and/or  sale
    of novel biological products or technologies. Due to our
    percentage of ownership, we account for our investment in this
    fund under the equity method of accounting. We have committed to
    contribute up to $10.0 million to the LP and made an
    initial contribution of $1.1 million to the LP. Through
    December 31, 2007, we have contributed $1.9 million
    into the LP, which is included in investments and other assets
    in our consolidated balance sheets.

In February 2006, we became a limited partner in MPM Bioventures
    IV-QP, LP, a limited partnership that invests in entities that
    are engaged in the research, development, manufacture, marketing
     and/or  sale
    of novel biological products or technologies. Due to our
    percentage of ownership, we account for our investment in this
    fund under the cost method of accounting. We have committed to
    contribute up to $10.0 million to the LP and made an
    initial contribution of $1.0 million to the LP. Through
    December 31, 2007, we have contributed $2.55 million
    into the LP, which is included in investments and other assets
    in our consolidated balance sheets.

In May 2004, we entered into a limited partnership agreement as
    a limited partner with MPM Bioventures III GP, LP, to
    create MPM Bioventures Strategic Fund, LP, or the Strategic
    Fund. The purpose of the Strategic Fund is to make, manage, and
    supervise investments in biotechnology companies with novel
    products or technologies that

F-49

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

fit strategically with Biogen Idec. Due to our percentage of
    ownership, we account for our investment in this fund under the
    equity method of accounting. The Strategic Fund takes only
    minority positions in the equity of its investments, and does
    not seek to engage in
     day-to-day 
    management of the entities. In February 2006, we adjusted our
    commitment to the Strategic Fund to approximately
    $32 million over a three-year period. Through
    December 31, 2007, we contributed $24.8 million to the
    Strategic Fund.

In April 2004, we became a limited partner in MPM Bioventures
    III-QP, LP, a limited partnership that invests in entities that
    are engaged in the research, development, manufacture, marketing
     and/or  sale
    of novel biological products or technologies. Due to our
    percentage of ownership, we account for our investment in this
    fund under the cost method of accounting. We have committed to
    contribute $4.0 million to the LP. Through
    December 31, 2007, we have contributed $3.7 million
    into the LP, which is included in investments and other assets
    in our consolidated balance sheets.

Vetter   

In August 2003, Biogen, Inc. entered into a collaboration
    agreement with Vetter Pharma-Fertigung GmbH   Co. KG,
    or Vetter, for the fill-finish of our products, including liquid
    AVONEX and TYSABRI. As of December 31, 2007, we have made
    milestone payments to Vetter of 35.0 million euros in
    return for its reserving certain manufacturing capacity for us
    at its fill-finish facility. Under the terms of the agreement,
    these payments will reduce payments due on our future purchases
    of inventory from Vetter over a seven-year period, which
    commenced in 2007. During 2007, we consumed approximately
    $5.6 million of this asset. Accordingly, as of
    December 31, 2007, we have recorded $7.3 million and
    $29.4 million of these payments in other current assets and
    in investments and other assets, respectively, in our
    consolidated balance sheets. The related portion of the asset
    will be reclassified to inventory when purchases from Vetter are
    made.

Schering   

In June 1999, we entered into a collaboration and license
    agreement with Schering AG, aimed at the development and
    commercialization of ZEVALIN. Under the terms of the agreement,
    we may receive milestone and research and development support
    payments totaling up to $47.5 million, subject to the
    attainment of product development objectives. Schering AG
    received exclusive marketing and distribution rights to ZEVALIN
    outside the U.S., and we will continue to receive royalties on
    product sales by Schering AG. Under the terms of a separate
    supply agreement, we are obligated to meet Schering AG s
    clinical and commercial requirements for ZEVALIN. Schering AG
    may terminate these agreements for any reason. Under the above
    agreement, amounts earned by us and recognized as revenue for
    contract research and development approximate the research and
    development expenses incurred under the related agreement.
    Although in December 2007, we sold our rights to market, sell,
    manufacture and develop ZEVALIN in the U.S., we still
    participate in this agreement and we are reimbursed by CTI for
    our costs incurred in fulfilling our obligation.

Targeted   

We had previous agreements that have expired with Targeted
    Genetics Corporation, or Targeted, for gene therapy and
    research. We have no ongoing commitments with respect to
    Targeted. In connection with the expired agreements, however, we
    acquired shares of Targeted. In 2005, we recognized
    $9.2 million for impairments of our Targeted investment
    that was determined to be
     other-than-temporary. 
    In 2006, we received one million shares of Targeted and
    $0.5 million in cash in exchange for forgiveness of
    $5.7 million of debt owed by Targeted to us. We recorded a
    gain of $3.4 million upon receipt of the shares and the
    cash payment. As a result of the transactions, as of
    December 31, 2006, we owned 19.9% of the outstanding shares
    of Targeted. We account for our investment in Targeted using the
    cost method. During 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of
    $1.7 million related to Targeted and at December 31,
    2007, we held 2.2 million shares, representing 11% of the
    outstanding shares, with a fair

F-50

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

market value of $3.3 million. This amount is included in
    investments and other assets on our consolidated balance sheet.

16.    

Unconsolidated
    Joint Business Arrangement  

We copromote RITUXAN in the U.S. in collaboration with
    Genentech, Inc., or Genentech, under a collaboration agreement
    between the parties. Under the collaboration agreement, we
    granted Genentech a worldwide license to develop, commercialize
    and market RITUXAN in multiple indications. In exchange for
    these worldwide rights, we have copromotion rights in the
    U.S. and a contractual arrangement under which Genentech
    shares a portion of the pretax U.S. copromotion profits of
    RITUXAN with us. This collaboration was created through a
    contractual arrangement, not through a joint venture or other
    legal entity. In June 2003, we amended and restated our
    collaboration agreement with Genentech to include the
    development and commercialization of one or more anti-CD20
    antibodies targeting B-cell disorders, in addition to RITUXAN,
    for a broad range of indications.

In the U.S., we contribute resources to selling and the
    continued development of RITUXAN. Genentech is responsible for
    worldwide manufacturing of RITUXAN. Genentech also is
    responsible for the primary support functions for the
    commercialization of RITUXAN in the U.S. including selling
    and marketing, customer service, order entry, distribution,
    shipping and billing. Genentech also incurs the majority of
    continuing development costs for RITUXAN. Under the arrangement,
    we have a limited sales force as well as limited development
    activity.

Under the terms of separate sublicense agreements between
    Genentech and F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., or Roche,
    commercialization of RITUXAN outside the U.S. is the
    responsibility of Roche, except in Japan where Roche copromotes
    RITUXAN in collaboration with Zenyaku Kogyo Co Ltd., or Zenyaku.
    There is no direct contractual arrangement between us and Roche
    or Zenyaku.

Revenue from unconsolidated joint business consists of our share
    of pretax copromotion profits, which is calculated by Genentech,
    and includes consideration of our RITUXAN-related sales force
    and development expenses, and royalty revenue from sales of
    RITUXAN outside the U.S. by Roche and Zenyaku. Pre-tax
    copromotion profit consists of U.S. sales of RITUXAN to
    third-party customers net of discounts and allowances and less
    the cost to manufacture RITUXAN, third-party royalty expenses,
    distribution, selling and marketing expenses, and joint
    development expenses incurred by Genentech and us.

Under the amended and restated collaboration agreement, our
    current pretax copromotion profit-sharing formula, which resets
    annually, is as follows:

Copromotion Operating Profits 

Biogen Idec s Share of Copromotion Profits 

First $50 million

30

%

Greater than $50 million

40

%

F-51

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the 40% threshold was met during the
    first quarter. For each calendar year or portion thereof
    following the approval date of the first new anti-CD20 product,
    the pretax copromotion profit-sharing formula for RITUXAN and
    other anti-CD20 products sold by us and Genentech will change to
    the following:

New Anti-CD20 U.S. 

Biogen Idec s Share 

Copromotion Operating Profits 

Gross Product Sales 

of Copromotion Profits 

First $50 million(1)

N/A

30

%

Greater than $50 million

Until such sales exceed $150 million

38

%

in any calendar year(2)

Or

After such sales exceed $150 million

35

%

in any calendar year and until such sales exceed $350 million in
    any calendar year(3)

Or

After such sales exceed $350 million

30

%

in any calendar year(4)

(1)  

not applicable in the calendar year the first new anti-CD20
    product is approved if $50 million in copromotion operating
    profits has already been achieved in such calendar year through
    sales of RITUXAN. 

(2)  

if we are recording our share of RITUXAN copromotion profits at
    40%, upon the approval date of the first new anti-CD20 product,
    our share of copromotion profits for RITUXAN and the new
    anti-CD20 product will be immediately reduced to 38% following
    the approval date of the first new anti-CD20 product until the
    $150 million new product sales level is achieved. 

(3)  

if $150 million in new product sales is achieved in the
    same calendar year the first new anti-CD20 product receives
    approval, then the 35% copromotion profit-sharing rate will not
    be effective until January 1 of the following calendar year.
    Once the $150 million new product sales level is achieved
    then our share of copromotion profits for the balance of the
    year and all subsequent years  (after the first
    $50 million in copromotion operating profits in such years)
    will be 35% until the $350 million new product sales level
    is achieved. 

(4)  

if $350 million in new product sales is achieved in the
    same calendar year that $150 million in new product sales
    is achieved, then the 30% copromotion profit-sharing rate will
    not be effective until January 1 of the following calendar year
    (or January 1 of the second following calendar year if the first
    new anti-CD20 product receives approval and, in the same
    calendar year, the $150 million and $350 million new
    product sales levels are achieved). Once the $350 million
    new product sales level is achieved then our share of
    copromotion profits for the balance of the year and all
    subsequent years will be 30%. 

Currently, we record our share of expenses incurred for the
    development of new anti-CD20 products in research and
    development expense until such time as a new product is
    approved, at which time we will record our share of pretax
    copromotion profits related to the new product in revenues from
    unconsolidated joint business. We record our royalty revenue on
    sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. on a cash basis. Under
    the amended and restated collaboration agreement, we will
    receive lower royalty revenue from Genentech on sales by Roche
    and Zenyaku of new anti-CD20 products, as compared to royalty
    revenue received on sales of RITUXAN. The royalty period with
    respect to all products is 11 years from the first
    commercial sale of such product on a
     country-by-country 
    basis.

The amended and restated collaboration agreement provides that,
    upon the occurrence of a Biogen Idec
     change-in-control 
    as described in the agreement, within 90 days of that
     change-in-control, 
    Genentech may present an offer to us to purchase our rights to
    RITUXAN. We must then accept Genentech s offer or purchase
    Genentech s rights to RITUXAN for an amount proportioned
    (using the profit sharing ratio between us) to Genentech s
    offer. If

F-52

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Genentech presents such an offer in such a situation, then
    Genentech will be deemed concurrently to have exercised a right,
    in exchange for a share in the operating profits or net sales in
    the U.S. of any new products developed under the agreement,
    to purchase our interest in each such product. As discussed in
    Note 18, Litigation, Genentech asserted for the first time
    that the November 2003 transaction in which Idec acquired Biogen
    and became Biogen Idec was a change of control of our company
    under the Collaboration Agreement. We strongly disagree that the
    Merger was a change of control of our company, but if it was,
    our position is that Genentech s rights under the
     change-in-control 
    provision in the Collaboration Agreement have long since expired.

Concurrent with the original collaboration agreement, we also
    entered into an expression technology license agreement with
    Genentech (for a proprietary gene expression technology
    developed by us) and a preferred stock purchase agreement
    providing for certain equity investments in us by Genentech (see
    Note 19, Shareholders  Equity).

Under the terms of separate agreements with Genentech,
    commercialization of RITUXAN outside the U.S. is the
    responsibility of Roche, except in Japan where it copromotes
    RITUXAN in collaboration with Zenyaku. We receive royalties from
    Genentech on sales by Roche and Zenyaku of RITUXAN outside the
    U.S., except in Canada. Royalties on sales of RITUXAN in Canada
    are received directly from Roche (and are included in revenues
    from unconsolidated joint business arrangement in the
    accompanying consolidated statements of income). Under our
    amended and restated collaborative agreement with Genentech, we
    will receive lower royalty revenue from Genentech on sales by
    Roche and Zenyaku of new anti-CD20 products and only for the
    first 11 years from the date of first commercial sale of
    such new anti-CD20 products.

Total revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist of the
    following (in millions):

The royalty period with respect to all products is 11 years
    from the first commercial sale of such product on a country by
    country basis. RITUXAN was launched in 1998 in most European
    countries and in 2001 in Japan.

17.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Leases   

We rent laboratory and office space and certain equipment under
    noncancellable operating leases. The rental expense under these
    leases, which terminate at various dates through 2015, amounted
    to $33.1 million in 2007, $26.2 million in 2006, and
    $32.2 million in 2005. The lease agreements contain various
    clauses for renewal at our option and, in certain cases,
    escalation clauses typically linked to rates of inflation.

At December 31, 2007, minimum annual rental commitments
    under noncancellable leases were as follows (in millions)

F-53

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Construction
    Commitments   

As discussed in Note 9, Property Plant and Equipment, in
    2004, we restarted construction of our large-scale biologic
    manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark. In 2005, after
    our voluntary suspension of TYSABRI, we reconsidered our
    construction plans and determined that we would proceed with the
    bulk-manufacturing component, add a labeling and packaging
    component but would no longer proceed with the fill-finish
    component of that facility. As of December 31, 2007, we
    have substantially completed this phase of the project including
    the partial construction of the bulk manufacturing facility and
    installation of major equipment. We are in the process of
    completing the second phase of the project, a large scale bulk
    manufacturing component and construction of a warehouse. In
    October 2006, our Board of Directors approved this phase, which
    is expected to cost an additional $225.0 million. As of
    December 31, 2007, we had contractual commitments of
    approximately $207 million for the second phase, of which
    approximately $117 million had been paid. This phase of the
    project is expected to be ready for commercial production in
    2009.

On March 2, 2005, we, along with William H. Rastetter, our
    former Executive Chairman, and James C. Mullen, our Chief
    Executive Officer, were named as defendants in a purported class
    action lawsuit, captioned Brown v. Biogen Idec Inc., et al.
    ( Brown ), filed in the U.S. District Court for
    the District of Massachusetts (the  Court ). The
    complaint alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
     Rule 10b-5 
    promulgated thereunder. The action is purportedly brought on
    behalf of all purchasers of our publicly-traded securities
    between February 18, 2004 and February 25, 2005. The
    plaintiff alleges that the defendants made materially false and
    misleading statements regarding potentially serious side effects
    of TYSABRI in order to gain accelerated approval from the FDA
    for the product s distribution and sale. The plaintiff
    alleges that these materially false and misleading statements
    harmed the purported class by artificially inflating our stock
    price during the purported class period and that our insiders
    benefited personally from the inflated price by selling our
    stock. The plaintiff seeks unspecified damages, as well as
    interest, costs and attorneys  fees. Substantially similar
    actions, captioned Grill v. Biogen Idec Inc., et al. and
    Lobel v. Biogen Idec Inc., et al., were filed on
    March 10, 2005 and April 21, 2005, respectively, in
    the same court by other purported class representatives. Those
    actions have been consolidated with the Brown case. On
    October 13, 2006, the plaintiffs filed an amended
    consolidated complaint which, among other amendments to the
    allegations, adds as defendants Peter N. Kellogg, our former
    Chief Financial Officer, William R. Rohn, our former Chief
    Operating Officer, Burt A. Adelman, our former Executive Vice
    President, Portfolio Strategy, and Thomas J. Bucknum, our former
    General Counsel. On September 14, 2007, the District Court
    Judge entered an Order allowing the Motions to Dismiss of all
    defendants. On October 15, 2007, the plaintiffs filed a
    notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the
    First Circuit. Plaintiff filed its principal brief on appeal on
    February 6, 2008. We have not formed an opinion that an
    unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote  and do not express an opinion at this time as
    to the likely outcome of the matter or as to the magnitude or
    range of any potential loss. We believe that we have good and
    valid defenses to the complaint and intend to vigorously defend
    the case.

On October 4, 2004, Genentech, Inc. received a subpoena
    from the U.S. Department of Justice requesting documents
    related to the promotion of RITUXAN. We market RITUXAN in the
    U.S. in collaboration with Genentech. Genentech has
    disclosed that it is cooperating with the associated
    investigation which they disclosed that they have been advised
    is both civil and criminal in nature. Genentech has reported
    further that the government has called and is expected to call
    former and current Genentech employees to appear before a grand
    jury in connection with this investigation. We are cooperating
    with the U.S. Department of Justice in its investigation of
    Genentech. The potential outcome of this matter and its impact
    on us cannot be determined at this time.

Along with several other major pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies, Biogen, Inc. (now Biogen Idec MA, Inc., one of our
    wholly-owned subsidiaries) or, in certain cases, Biogen Idec
    Inc., was named as a defendant in lawsuits filed by the City of
    New York and numerous Counties of the State of New York. All of
    the cases   except

F-54

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

for cases filed by the County of Erie, County of Oswego and
    County of Schenectady   are the subject of a
    Consolidated Complaint ( Consolidated Complaint ),
    which was filed on June 15, 2005, and amended on
    June 8, 2007, in the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Massachusetts in Multi-District Litigation
    No. 1456 ( the MDL proceedings ). The County of
    Nassau joined in the amended Consolidated Complaint on
    June 8, 2007. On September 17, 2007, the County of
    Erie, County of Oswego and County of Schenectady cases were
    remanded to state court in New York.

All of the complaints in these cases allege that the defendants
    (i) fraudulently reported the Average Wholesale Price for
    certain drugs for which Medicaid provides reimbursement
    ( Covered Drugs  (ii) marketed and promoted the
    sale of Covered Drugs to providers based on the providers 
    ability to collect inflated payments from the government and
    Medicaid beneficiaries that exceeded payments possible for
    competing drugs; (iii) provided financing incentives to
    providers to over-prescribe Covered Drugs or to prescribe
    Covered Drugs in place of competing drugs; and
    (iv) overcharged Medicaid for illegally inflated Covered
    Drugs reimbursements. Among other things, the complaints allege
    violations of New York state law and advance common law claims
    for unfair trade practices, fraud, and unjust enrichment. In
    addition, the amended Consolidated Complaint alleges that the
    defendants failed to accurately report the  best
    price  on the Covered Drugs to the Secretary of Health and
    Human Services pursuant to rebate agreements, and excluded from
    their reporting certain discounts and other rebates that would
    have reduced the  best price. 

On September 7, 2006, a New York State court granted in
    part and denied in part Biogen Idec s motion to
    dismiss the County of Erie complaint. On April 2, 2007, the
    defendants  joint motion to dismiss the original
    Consolidated Complaint and the County of Nassau s second
    amended complaint were granted in part, but certain claims
    against Biogen Idec remained. Biogen Idec s individual
    motion to dismiss these complaints remains pending. We have not
    formed an opinion that an unfavorable outcome is either
     probable  or  remote  and do not express an
    opinion at this time as to the likely outcome of the matter or
    as to the magnitude or range of any potential loss. We believe
    that we have good and valid defenses to these complaints and
    intend to vigorously defend the case.

Along with several other major pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies, we were also named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed
    by the Attorney General of Arizona. The lawsuit was filed in the
    Superior Court of the State of Arizona and transferred to the
    MDL proceedings. The complaint, as amended on March 13,
    2007, is brought on behalf of Arizona consumers and other payors
    for drugs, and alleges that the defendants violated the state
    consumer fraud statute by fraudulently reporting the Average
    Wholesale Price for certain drugs covered by various private and
    public insurance mechanisms and by marketing these drugs to
    providers based on the providers  ability to collect
    inflated payments from third-party payors. Motions to dismiss
    the complaint have not yet been filed and briefed. We have not
    formed an opinion that an unfavorable outcome is either
     probable  or  remote  and do not express an
    opinion at this time as to the likely outcome of the matter or
    as to the magnitude or range of any potential loss. We believe
    that we have good and valid defenses to the complaint and intend
    to vigorously defend the case.

On January 6, 2006, we were served with a lawsuit,
    captioned United States of America ex rel. Paul P.
    McDermott v. Genentech, Inc. and Biogen Idec, Inc., filed
    in the United States District Court of the District of Maine
    ( Court ). The lawsuit was filed under seal on
    July 29, 2005 by a former employee of our co-defendant
    Genentech pursuant to the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C.
    section 3729 et. seq. On December 20, 2005, the
    U.S. government elected not to intervene, and the complaint
    was subsequently unsealed and served. On April 4, 2006, the
    plaintiff filed his first amended complaint alleging, among
    other things, that we directly solicited physicians and their
    staff members to illegally market off-label uses of RITUXAN for
    treating rheumatoid arthritis, provided illegal kickbacks to
    physicians to promote off-label uses, trained our employees in
    methods of avoiding the detection of these off-label sales and
    marketing activities, formed a network of employees whose
    assigned duties involved off-label promotion of RITUXAN,
    intended and caused the off-label promotion of RITUXAN to result
    in the submission of false claims to the government, and
    conspired with Genentech to defraud the government. The
    plaintiff seeks entry of judgment on behalf of the United States
    of America against the

F-55

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

defendants, an award to the plaintiff as relator, and all costs,
    expenses, attorneys  fees, interest and other appropriate
    relief. On July 24, 2007, the District Court granted Biogen
    Idec s motion to dismiss on the grounds that the Court
    lacks subject matter jurisdiction, the complaint fails to state
    a claim and the claims were not pleaded with particularity.
    Certain of plaintiff s claims against Genentech are still
    pending. On August 14, 2007, the plaintiff filed a motion
    requesting that the Court allow the plaintiff to file an
    interlocutory appeal of the granting of Biogen Idec s
    motion to dismiss. The court denied the motion on
    October 22, 2007. We have not formed an opinion that an
    unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote  and do not express an opinion at this time as
    to the likely outcome of the matter or as to the magnitude or
    range of any potential loss. We believe that we have good and
    valid defenses to the complaint and intend to vigorously defend
    the case.

On June 17, 2006, Biogen Idec filed a Demand for
    Arbitration against Genentech, Inc. with the American
    Arbitration Association ( AAA ), which was amended on
    December 5, 2006 and January 29, 2008. Biogen Idec
    alleges that Genentech breached the parties  Amended and
    Restated Collaboration Agreement dated June 19, 2003 (the
     Collaboration Agreement ), by failing to honor Biogen
    Idec s contractual right to participate in strategic
    decisions affecting the parties  joint development and
    commercialization of certain pharmaceutical products, including
    humanized anti-CD20 antibodies. Genentech filed an Answering
    Statement in response to Biogen Idec s Demand in which
    Genentech denied that it had breached the Collaboration
    Agreement and alleged that Biogen Idec had breached the
    Collaboration Agreement. Genentech also asserted for the first
    time that the November 2003 transaction in which Idec acquired
    Biogen and became Biogen Idec was a change of control under the
    Collaboration Agreement, a position with which we disagree
    strongly. It is our position that the Biogen Idec merger did not
    constitute a change of control under the Collaboration Agreement
    and that, even if it did, Genentech s rights under the
    change of control provision, which must be asserted within
    90 days of the change of control event, have long since
    expired. We have not formed an opinion that an unfavorable
    outcome is either  probable  or  remote  and
    do not express an opinion at this time as to the likely outcome
    of the matter or as to the magnitude or range of any potential
    loss. We believe that we have good and valid defenses to
    Genentech s allegations in the collaboration and intend to
    vigorously defend against these allegations.

On September 12, 2006, the Massachusetts Department of
    Revenue ( DOR ) issued a notice of assessment against
    Biogen Idec MA, Inc. for $38.9 million of corporate excise
    tax for 2002, which includes associated interest and penalties.
    On December 6, 2006, we filed an abatement application with
    the DOR, seeking abatements for
     2001-2003. 
    The abatement application was denied on July 24, 2007. On
    July 25, 2007, we filed a petition with the Massachusetts
    Appellate Tax Board, seeking abatements of corporate excise tax
    for the
     2001-2003 
    tax years and adjustments in certain credits and credit
    carryforwards for the
     2001-2003 years. 
    Issues before the Board include the computation of Biogen
    MA s sales factor for
     2001-2003, 
    computation of Biogen MA s research credits for those same
    years, and the availability of deductions for certain expenses
    and partnership flow-through items. We intend to contest this
    matter vigorously. We believe that the assessment does not
    impact the level of liabilities for income tax contingencies.

On August 10, 2004, Classen Immunotherapies, Inc. filed
    suit against us, GlaxoSmithKline, Chiron Corporation,
    Merck   Co., Inc., and Kaiser-Permanente, Inc. in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland contending
    that we induced infringement of U.S. Patent Nos, 6,420,139,
    6,638,739, 5,728,383, and 5,723,283, all of which are directed
    to various methods of immunization or determination of
    immunization schedules. All Counts asserted against us by
    Classen were dismissed by the Court upon various motions filed
    by the Parties. In early December 2006, Classen filed its
    initial appeal brief with the United States Court of Appeals for
    the Federal Circuit. On March 7, 2007, we filed our brief
    in response. The Court of Appeals held oral argument on
    August 8, 2007. We have not formed an opinion that an
    unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote  and do not express an opinion at this time as
    to the likely outcome of the matter or as to the magnitude or
    range of any potential loss. We believe that we have good and
    valid defenses to the complaint and intend to vigorously defend
    the case.

On January 30, 2007, the Estate of Thaddeus Leoniak
    commenced a civil lawsuit in the Court of Common Pleas,
    Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania, against Biogen Idec, the Fox
    Chase Cancer Center and three physicians.

F-56

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The complaint alleges that Thaddeus Leoniak died as a result of
    taking the drug ZEVALIN, and seeks to hold Biogen Idec strictly
    liable for placing an allegedly  unreasonably
    dangerous  product in the stream of commerce without proper
    warnings. The complaint also seeks to hold us liable for alleged
    negligence in the design, manufacture, advertising, marketing,
    promoting, distributing, supplying and selling of ZEVALIN. The
    lawsuit seeks damages for pecuniary losses suffered by the
    decedent s survivors and for compensatory damages for
    decedent s pain and suffering, loss of earnings and
    deprivation of normal activities, all in an amount  in
    excess of $50,000.  On January 31, 2007, the
    Plaintiff s counsel demanded $7.0 million to settle
    the lawsuit. We have not formed an opinion that an unfavorable
    outcome is either  probable  or  remote  and
    do not express an opinion at this time as to the likely outcome
    of the matter or as to the magnitude or range of any potential
    loss. We believe that we have good and valid defenses to the
    complaint and intend to vigorously defend the case.

In addition, we are involved in product liability claims and
    other legal proceedings generally incidental to our normal
    business activities. While the outcome of any of these
    proceedings cannot be accurately predicted, we do not believe
    the ultimate resolution of any of these existing matters would
    have a material adverse effect on our business or financial
    condition.

19.    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

Preferred
    Stock   

Preferred stock was comprised of the following (in thousands):

We have 8,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock authorized, of
    which 1,750,000 shares have been designated as
    Series A Preferred Stock and 1,000,000 shares have
    been designated as Series X Junior Participating Preferred
    Stock. The balance may be issued without a vote or action of
    stockholders from time to time in classes or series with the
    designations, powers, preferences, and the relative,
    participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of
    each such class or series and any qualifications, limitations or
    restrictions thereon as set forth in the stock certificate. Any
    such Preferred Stock may rank prior to common stock as to
    dividend rights, liquidation preference or both, and may have
    full or limited voting rights and may be convertible into shares
    of common stock. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, there
    were 8,221 shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued
    and outstanding. These shares carry a liquidation preference of
    $67 and are convertible into 60 shares of common stock per
    share of Preferred Stock. No other shares of Preferred Stock are
    issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Stockholder
    Rights Plan   

Effective July 26, 2001, our Board of Directors amended and
    restated the terms of our stockholder rights plan, originally
    adopted by the Board of Directors in 1997. Under the plan, we
    declared a dividend distribution of one  Right  for
    each outstanding share of our common stock to stockholders of
    record at the close of business on August 11, 1997. Since
    that time, we have issued one Right with each newly issued share
    of common stock. As amended, each Right, when exercisable,
    entitles the holder to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a
    share of our Series X Junior Participating Preferred Stock
    at a purchase price of $500.00. In general, under the
    amended and restated plan, if a person or affiliated group
    acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our shares of
    common stock, then each Right (other than those held by such
    acquiring person or affiliated group) will entitle the holder to

F-57

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock (or, under
    certain circumstances, a combination of securities or other
    assets) having a value of twice the underlying purchase price of
    the Right. In addition, if following the announcement of the
    existence of an acquiring person or affiliated group we are
    involved in a business combination or sale of 50% or more of our
    assets or earning power, each Right (other than those held by
    the acquiring person or affiliated group) will entitle the
    holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock of the
    acquiring entity having a value of twice the underlying purchase
    price of the Right. The Board of Directors also has the right,
    after an acquiring person or affiliated group is identified, to
    cause each Right to be exchanged for common stock or substitute
    consideration. We may redeem the Rights at a price of $0.001 per
    Right prior to the identification of an acquiring person or
    affiliated group. The Rights expire on July 26, 2011.

Stock
    Repurchase Programs   

In October 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common
    stock. The repurchased stock will provide us with treasury
    shares for general corporate purposes, such as common stock to
    be issued under our employee equity and stock purchase plans.
    This repurchase program expired October 4, 2006. During
    2006, we repurchased 7.5 million shares at a cost of
    $320.3 million. During 2005, we repurchased
    7.5 million shares at a cost of $324.3 million.

In October 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to an additional 20.0 million shares of
    our common stock. The repurchased stock will provide us with
    treasury shares for general corporate purposes, such as common
    stock to be issued under our employee equity and stock purchase
    plans. This repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
    No shares have been repurchased under the program as of
    December 31, 2007.

Reclassification   

In the year ended December 31, 2007, we reclassified
    amounts within the statement of shareholder s equity,
    resulting in an approximately $48 million correction in the
    treasury stock and common stock balances.

On June 27, 2007, pursuant to the terms of a tender offer,
    we accepted for payment 56,424,155 shares of our common
    stock at a price of $53.00 per share for a purchase price of
    $2,990.5 million. As the obligation of
    $2,990.5 million was incurred on June 27, 2007 and
    funded on July 2, 2007, pursuant to Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 150,  Accounting for Certain
    Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities
    and Equity , or SFAS 150, we recorded the present value
    of the obligation of $2,988.2 million on June 27,
    2007, and the $2.3 million difference between the present
    value of the obligation and funded amount was recognized as
    interest expense. We funded the tender offer through existing
    cash and cash equivalents of $1,490.5 million and
    $1,500.0 million borrowed under our short-term loan
    facility as described in Note 7, Indebtedness. We retired
    all of these shares in July 2007. In connection with this
    retirement, in accordance with our policy, we recorded an
    approximately $2,991 million reduction in treasury stock
    and additional
     paid-in-capital. 

21.    

Segment
    Information  

We operate in one business segment, which is the business of
    development, manufacturing and commercialization of novel
    therapeutics for human healthcare and, therefore, our chief
    operating decision-maker manages the operations of our Company
    as a single operating segment. Enterprise-wide disclosures about
    product revenues, other revenues and long-lived assets by
    geographic area and information relating to major customers are
    presented below. Revenues are primarily attributed to individual
    countries based on location of the customer or licensee.

F-58

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Revenue by product is as follows (in millions):

Our geographic information is as follows (in millions):

In 2007, we recorded revenue from two wholesale distributors
    accounting for a total of 19.4% and 15.2% of total product
    revenue, respectively.

In 2006, we recorded revenue from one specialty distributor and
    three wholesale distributors accounting for a total of 15%, 18%,
    14%, and 12% of total product revenue, respectively.

In 2005, we recorded revenue from one specialty distributor and
    three wholesale distributors accounting for a total of 17%, 18%,
    15%, and 12% of total product revenue, respectively.

Approximately 29%, 30%, and 29% of our total revenues in 2007,
    2006, and 2005, respectively, are derived from our joint
    business arrangement with Genentech (see Note 16,
    Unconsolidated Joint Business Arrangement).

22.    

Severance
    and Other Restructuring Costs  

2007
    Restructurings   

During 2007, we incurred $1.8 million in restructuring
    costs, primarily related to the Syntonix acquisition and the
    ZEVALIN divestiture, which are included in selling, general and
    administrative expense. At December 31, 2007, there are no
    material remaining restructuring accruals on our consolidated
    balance sheets.

F-59

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

2006
    Restructurings   

During 2006, we incurred restructuring costs associated with
    acquisitions and planned dispositions. Specifically, we incurred
    $1.2 million in severance costs associated with the
    acquisition of Conforma, and $1.7 million related in
    headcount reductions related to the planned disposition of our
    ZEVALIN product line.

2005
    Strategic Plan   

In September 2005, we began implementing a comprehensive
    strategic plan, or the 2005 Strategic Plan, in conjunction with
    which we consolidated or eliminated certain internal management
    layers and staff functions, resulting in the reduction of our
    workforce that represented approximately 17%, or approximately
    650 positions worldwide at that time. These adjustments took
    place across company functions, departments and sites, and were
    substantially implemented by the end of 2005. We recorded
    restructuring charges of $31.4 million in connection with
    these activities, of which $28.3 million related to
    severance and other employee termination costs, including health
    benefits, outplacement and bonuses. Other costs were
    $3.1 million and included write-downs of certain research
    assets that will no longer be utilized, consulting costs in
    connection with the restructuring effort, and costs related to
    the acceleration of restricted stock, offset by the reversal of
    previously recognized compensation due to unvested restricted
    stock cancellations.

Remaining
    Reserve Balance   

The remaining liability at December 31, 2006 associated
    with the 2005 Strategic Plan and the 2006 Restructurings, which
    is included in accrued expenses and other in our consolidated
    balance sheet, is as follows (in millions). There were no
    material restructuring liabilities at Decmber 31, 2007.

Other
    Items   

Effective on December 31, 2005, our former Executive
    Chairman and Chairman of the Board retired and resigned from the
    Board. The charges related to this retirement amounted to
    $7.1 million and were all paid in 2005.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation
    No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure
    Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
    Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements
    No. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation
    No. 34,  or FIN 45. FIN 45 elaborates on the
    disclosures to be made by a guarantor inside its interim and
    annual financial statements about its obligations under certain
    guarantees that it has issued. It also requires that a guarantor
    recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the
    fair value of certain guarantees. The initial recognition and
    initial measurement provisions of FIN No. 45 are
    applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or
    modified after December 31, 2002. At December 31,
    2007, we have no liabilities recorded for guarantees, as defined
    by FIN 45, as the value of our guarantees are not material.

We enter into indemnification provisions under our agreements
    with other companies in the ordinary course of business,
    typically with business partners, contractors, clinical sites
    and customers. Under these provisions, we generally indemnify
    and hold harmless the indemnified party for losses suffered or
    incurred by the indemnified party as a result of our activities.
    These indemnification provisions generally survive termination
    of the underlying

F-60

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

agreement. The maximum potential amount of future payments we
    could be required to make under these indemnification provisions
    is unlimited. However, to date we have not incurred material
    costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these
    indemnification provisions. As a result, the estimated fair
    value of these agreements is minimal. Accordingly, we have no
    liabilities recorded for these agreements as of
    December 31, 2007.

In connection with the relocation from leased facilities to our
    new research and corporate campus in San Diego, California,
    we entered into a lease assignment, in January 2005, with Tanox
    West, Inc., or Tanox, for a manufacturing facility in
    San Diego for which we have outstanding lease obligations
    through September 2008. Under the lease assignment, Tanox was
    assigned all of our rights, title, and interest in the amended
    lease and assumed all of the terms, covenants, conditions and
    obligations required to be kept, performed and fulfilled under
    the amended lease, including the making of all payments under
    the amended lease. However, if Tanox were to fail to perform
    under the lease assignment we would be responsible for all
    obligations under the amended lease through September 2008. At
    December 31, 2007, our estimate of the maximum potential of
    future payments under the amended lease through September 2008
    is $3.6 million. Under the lease assignment, Tanox has
    agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless from and against any
    and all claims, proceedings and demands and all costs, expenses
    and liabilities arising out of their performance or failure to
    perform under the lease assignment.

24.    

Facility
    Impairments and Loss (Gain) on Dispositions  

In 2007, we sold approximately 28 acres of land in
    Oceanside, California for $16.5 million. We recorded a
    pre-tax gain of approximately $7.2 million on the sale,
    which is included in other income (expense) on the accompanying
    consolidated statement of operations, as this land was not
    utilized in our operations.

In December 2006, we completed the sale of a research building
    at our Cambridge, Massachusetts facility. Proceeds from the sale
    were approximately $39.5 million. We recorded a pre-tax
    gain of $15.6 million on the sale. We continue to occupy a
    minor portion of the building under a leasing arrangement.

In April 2006, we sold the worldwide rights and other assets of
    AMEVIVE for $59.8 million, including $43.7 million of
    inventory on hand, to Astellas Pharma US, Inc. As of
    December 31, 2005, our AMEVIVE assets held for sale
    included $8.0 million, net, related to intangible assets,
    and $5.4 million of property, plant and equipment, net, and
    were reported separately in current assets on the consolidated
    balance sheet. The pre-tax gain on this sale of approximately
    $2.8 million was deferred and is being recognized over the
    period of a related long-term supply contract.

In February 2006, we sold our clinical manufacturing facility in
    Oceanside, California, known as NICO. The assets associated with
    the facility were included in assets held for sale on our
    consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. Total
    consideration was $29.0 million. In 2005, we recorded
    impairment charges totaling $28.0 million to reduce the
    carrying value of NICO to its net realizable value. No
    additional loss resulted from completion of the sale.

In June 2005, we sold our large-scale biologics manufacturing
    facility in Oceanside, California, known as NIMO, along with
    approximately 60 acres of real property located in
    Oceanside, California upon which NIMO is located, together with
    improvements, related property rights, and certain personal
    property intangibles and contracts at or related to the real
    property. Total consideration for the purchase was
    $408.1 million. The loss from this transaction was
    $83.5 million which consisted primarily of the write-down
    of NIMO to net selling price, sales and transfer taxes, and
    other associated transaction costs.

As of March 31, 2005, after our voluntary suspension of
    TYSABRI, we reconsidered our construction plans and determined
    that we would proceed with the bulk manufacturing component of
    our large-scale biologic manufacturing facility in
    Hiller d, Denmark. Additionally, we added a labeling and
    packaging component to the project, but determined that we would
    no longer proceed with the fill-finish component of the
    large-scale biological manufacturing facility. As a result, we
    recorded an impairment charge of approximately $6.2 million
    in 2005 related to the fill-finish component that had previously
    been capitalized. See Footnote 9, Property, Plant and Equipment,
    and Footnote 17, Commitments and Contingencies.

F-61

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

25.    

Quarterly
    Financial Data (Unaudited)  

(a)  

The first quarter of 2007 includes a charge of
    $18.4 million for in-process research and development
    related to the acquisition of Syntonix. 

(b)  

The third quarter of 2007 includes a charge of approximately
    $30 million for in-process research and development related
    to our collaboration with Cardiokine Biopharma LLC. This amount
    was offset by  

F-62

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

minority interest income of approximately $30 million,
    representing the value of the underlying technology retained by
    the parent company of Cardiokine Biopharma LLC. 

(c)  

In July 2007, we purchased 56,424,155 shares of our common
    stock pursuant to a tender offer. We funded the transaction in
    July 2007 through existing cash and cash equivalents of
    $1,490.5 million and by obtaining a short term loan for
    $1,500.0 million. 

(d)  

The fourth quarter of 2007 includes a charge of
    $34.3 million for in-process research and development
    related to our collaboration with Neurimmune. This amount was
    offset by minority interest income of $34.3 million,
    representing the value of the underlying technology retained by
    the parent company of Neurimmune. 

(e)  

In connection with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we recorded
    the cumulative effect of an accounting change of
    $3.8 million, net, as of January 1, 2006. 

(f)  

The second quarter of 2006 includes a charge of
    $330.5 million for in-process research and development and
    a gain of $34.2 related to the settlement of a license agreement. 

(g)  

In the second quarter of 2006, we recorded a charge of
    $6.9 million to increase certain reserves for expired
    products. We determined that the charge related to prior years
    but was not material to any period. (See Note 1, Business
    Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, for
    further discussion). 

(h)  

In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded a charge of
    $28.1 million related to the loss on settlement of an
    agreement with Fumedica. 

26.    

New
    Accounting Pronouncements  

On December 12, 2007,
     EITF 07-01, 
     Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the
    Development and Commercialization of Intellectual Property ,
    or
     EITF 07-01, 
    was issued. EITF-
     07-01 
    prescribes the accounting for collaborations. It requires
    certain transactions between collaborators to be recorded in the
    income statement on either a gross or net basis within expenses
    when certain characteristics exist in the collaboration
    relationship.
     EITF 07-01 
    is effective for all of our collaborations existing after
    January 1, 2009. We are evaluating the impact this standard
    will have on our financial statements.

On December 4, 2007, Statement of Financial Standard
    No. 141(R),  Business Combinations , or
    SFAS 141(R), was issued. This Standard will require an
    acquiring company to measure all assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed, including contingent considerations and all contractual
    contingencies, at fair value as of the acquisition date. In
    addition, an acquiring company is required to capitalize
    IPR D and either amortize it over the life of the product,
    or write it off if the project is abandoned or impaired. The
    Standard is effective for transactions occurring on or after
    January 1, 2009. We are evaluating the impact this standard
    will have on our financial statements.

On December 4, 2007, Statement of Financial Standard
    No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated
    Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 , or
    SFAS 160, was issued. This Standard changes the accounting
    for and reporting of noncontrolling or minority interests (now
    called noncontrolling interest) in consolidated financial
    statements. This Standard is effective January 1, 2009.
    When implemented, prior periods will be recast for the changes
    required by SFAS 160. We are evaluating the impact, if any,
    this standard will have on our financial statements.

On June 27, 2007,
     EITF 07-3 
     Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development
    Activities , or
     EITF 07-3, 
    was issued.  EITF
      07-3 
    requires that nonrefundable advance payments made for goods or
    services to be used in future research and development
    activities be deferred and capitalized until such time as the
    related goods are delivered or services are performed, at which
    point the amounts would be recognized as an expense. This
    standard was effective for new contracts entered into after
    January 1, 2008. We are evaluating the impact, if any, this
    EITF will have on our financial statements.

On February 15, 2007, Statement of Financial Standard
    No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
    Financial Liabilities ,  Including an Amendment of FASB
    Statement No. 115 , or SFAS 159, was issued. This

F-63

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Standard permits us to choose to measure many financial
    instruments and certain other items at fair value. It also
    establishes presentation and disclosure requirements. This
    Standard was effective January 1, 2008 for the Company. We
    are evaluating the impact, if any, this standard will have on
    our financial statements.

On September 6, 2006, Statement of Financial Standard
    No. 157  Fair Value Measurement , or SFAS 157,
    was issued. This Standard defines fair value, establishes a
    framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
    accounting principles, or GAAP, and expands disclosures about
    fair value measurements. This Standard is effective
    January 1, 2008 for the company. We are evaluating the
    impact, if any, this standard will have on our financial
    statements.

F-64

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Biogen Idec
    Inc.: 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
    the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders
    equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects,
    the financial position of Biogen Idec Inc. and its subsidiaries
    at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their
    operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended December 31, 2007 in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company s management is responsible for these financial
    statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
    is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance
    with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
    Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
    statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
    supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for share-based compensation in 2006. As discussed in
    Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the
    Company changed the manner in which it accounts for income tax
    contingencies in 2007.

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

Boston, MA

February 14, 2008

F-65

<EX-10.22>
 2
 b68103biexv10w22.htm
 EX-10.22 1985 NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN

exv10w22 

Exhibit 10.22 

BIOGEN, INC. 
1985 NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN 
(As amended and restated through April 11, 2003, effective as of April 11, 2003)

I. PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

The Plan is intended to encourage ownership of shares of the Common Stock by certain Employees
and Directors of the Company and its Affiliates and to provide an additional incentive to those
Employees and Directors to promote the success of the Company and its Affiliates.

II. DEFINITIONS

1.  Affiliate  means (a) a corporation in respect of which the Company owns directly or
indirectly fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting securities thereof or which is otherwise
controlled by the Company; or (b) to the extent not inconsistent with Section 424 of the Code, an
unincorporated trade or business controlled by the Company which has elected, for federal income
tax purposes, to be either (i) classified as an association taxable as a corporation or (ii)
disregarded as an entity separate from its owner (as provided in Section 301.7701-3 of the federal
income tax regulations). For purposes of this definition, the Company shall be deemed to control
another entity if the Company possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the
direction of the management and policies of such entity, whether through ownership of voting
securities, by contract or otherwise.

2.  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.

3.  Committee  means the Stock and Option Plan Administration Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Company or, if such committee ceases to exist, the Board of Directors of the
Company or a committee thereof to which responsibility for administering the Plan shall have been
delegated.

4.  Common Stock  means the common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share.

5.  Company  means Biogen, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation.

6.  Corporate Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred upon:

(i) the acquisition of beneficial ownership (as determined pursuant to the
provisions of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of securities of the Company
representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the Company s
then outstanding securities by a person, entity or  group , within the meaning of Section
13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding for this purpose, the Company or its
Affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company),

pursuant to a transaction or series of related transactions which the Board of
Directors does not approve; or

(ii) at such time as individuals who as of April 27, 2001 constitute the Board of
Directors (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the
Board of Directors of the Company, provided that any person becoming a director
subsequent to April 27, 2001 whose election or nomination for election by the Company s
stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then
comprising the Incumbent Board, shall, for purposes of the Plan, be considered as though
such person were a member of the Incumbent Board (other than an individual whose initial
assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest
related to the election of the directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule
14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act); or

(iii) the occurrence of any other event which the Incumbent Board in its sole
discretion determines should be considered a Corporate Change of Control.

7.  Corporate Transaction  shall mean the following unless and until the transaction becomes
a Corporate Change in Control:

(i) a reorganization, recapitalization, merger or consolidation unless more than
fifty percent (50%) of the Company s outstanding voting stock or the voting stock of the
corporation resulting from the transaction (or the parent of such corporation) is held
subsequent to the transaction by the persons who held the stock of the Company
immediately prior to such transaction, or

(ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the
assets of the Company to a successor in interest to the business of the Company.

8.  Designated Employee  means an Employee or Director designated by the Committee, in its
sole discretion, as a  Designated Employee  for purposes of the Plan at any time prior to the
effective date of a Corporate Transaction.

9.  Director  means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company or an Affiliate.

10.  Employee  means an individual employed by the Company or an Affiliate as a common law
employee (determined under the regular personnel policies, practices and classifications of the
Company or the Affiliate, as applicable). An individual is not considered an Employee for purposes
of the Plan if the individual is classified as a consultant or contractor under the Company or an
Affiliate s regular personnel classifications and practices, or if the individual is a party to an
agreement to provide services to the Company or an Affiliate without participating in the Plan,
notwithstanding that such individual may be treated as a common law employee for payroll tax,
coverage requirements under Section 410(b) of the Code, nondiscrimination requirements under
Section 401(a)(4) or other legal purposes.

11.  Exchange Act  means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from
time to time.

12.  Fair Market Value  shall have the meaning set forth in Section VI.A.

13.  For Cause  shall have the meaning set forth in Section VI.G.

14.  Incumbent Board  shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of  Corporate Change
of Control. 

15.  Involuntary Employment Action  shall have the meaning set forth in Section VI.R.

16.  ISO Plan  shall have the meaning set forth in Article III.

17.  Option  means a stock option granted under this Plan.

18.  Option Certificate  means a certificate delivered to an Option holder by the Company
pursuant to the Plan, in such form as the Committee shall approve, which sets forth the terms and
conditions of an Option.

19.  Plan  shall mean this 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, as amended and/or restated
from time to time.

20.  Retirement  shall have the meaning set forth in Section VI.J.

21.  Securities Act  shall mean the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended from
time to time.

III. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

The aggregate number of shares as to which Options may be granted from time to time shall be
54,208,000 shares of the Common Stock; provided, however that such aggregate number shall be
reduced by the number of shares which has been sold under, or may be sold pursuant to options
granted from time to time under, the Company s 1982 Incentive Stock Option Plan (the  ISO Plan ),
to the same extent as if such sales had been made or options granted pursuant to the Plan.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, on the first day of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning
in 2003) the number of shares as to which Options may be granted from time to time pursuant to the
Plan shall be increased by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) 3,695,000 shares or the equivalent
of such number of shares of the Common Stock after the Committee, in its sole discretion, has
interpreted the effect of any stock split, stock dividend, combination, recapitalization or similar
transaction in accordance with Article VIII of this Plan; or (ii) 2.5% of the number of outstanding
shares of the Common Stock on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal year.
Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, in the event that the stockholders of the
Company approve the adoption of the Company s 2003

Omnibus Equity Plan at the 2003 annual meeting of the Company s shareholders, the aggregate number
of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under this Plan shall be the number determined in
accordance with the first paragraph of this Article III.

If any Option granted under the Plan or the ISO Plan ceases to be  outstanding , in whole or
in part, other than by reason of the exercise of such Option, the shares which were subject to such
Option shall be available for the granting of other Options. Any Option shall be treated as
 outstanding  until such Option is exercised in full, terminates under the provisions of the Plan
or the ISO Plan, as the case may be, or expires by reason of lapse of time.

Except as expressly provided above, the aggregate number of shares as to which Options may be
granted shall be subject to change only by means of an amendment adopted in accordance with Article
XI below, subject to the provisions of Article VIII.

IV. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN

The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The membership of the Committee shall be
determined, and shall be subject to change without cause and without notice from time to time, by
the Board of Directors of the Company.

The Committee is authorized to interpret the provisions of the Plan or of any Option and to
make all rules and determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The
interpretation and construction by the Committee of any provision of the Plan or of any Option
granted under it shall be final, unless otherwise determined by the Incumbent Board. The
Committee s determinations under the Plan do not need to be uniform and may be made by it
selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, Options under the Plan (whether
or not such persons are similarly situated). Subject to the provisions of the Plan, Options may be
granted upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe.

V. ELIGIBILITY FOR PARTICIPATION

The Committee shall determine which Employees and Directors shall be eligible to participate
in the Plan. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Options may be awarded for reasons
of performance, merit, promotion, bonus or upon new Employees joining the Company or any Affiliate.

The Committee may grant to one or more such Employees or Directors one or more Options, and
shall designate the number of shares to be optioned under each Option so granted; provided,
however, that no Options shall be granted after December 31, 2011. In no event shall any Employee
be granted in any calendar year Options to purchase or receive more than 2,400,000 shares, as
adjusted pursuant to Article VIII, of the Common Stock pursuant to the Plan.

VI. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS

No Option issued pursuant to the Plan shall be an incentive stock option under Section 422 of
the Code. No purported grant of any Option shall be effective until such Option shall have been
approved by the Committee, except as otherwise provided in Section VI.N below. The Committee may
provide that Options be granted subject to such conditions as the Committee may deem appropriate,
including without limitation, subsequent approval by the shareholders of the Company of the Plan or
any amendments thereto. Each Option shall be subject to at least the following terms and
conditions:

A.  Option Price : Each Option Certificate shall state the Option price per share of the
Common Stock covered by such Option grant. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, the
Option price per share for Options granted under the Plan shall be equal to the fair market value
per share of Common Stock (the  Fair Market Value ) on the date of grant of the Option; provided,
however, that in no event shall the Option price be less than the par value per share of Common
Stock. Fair Market Value shall be calculated as follows: (i) if the Common Stock is listed on a
national securities exchange or traded on the Nasdaq National Market or the Nasdaq SmallCap Market
 and  sale prices are regularly reported for the Common Stock, then the Fair Market Value
shall be the arithmetic mean between the  high  and  low  sale prices for the Common Stock reported
on the applicable composite tape or other comparable reporting system on the date of grant, or if
the date of grant is not a trading day, on the most recent trading day immediately prior to the
date of grant; or (ii) if sale prices are not regularly reported for the Common Stock as described
in clause (i) above but bid and asked prices for the Common Stock are regularly reported, then the
Fair Market Value shall be the arithmetic mean between the closing or last bid and asked prices for
the Common Stock on the date of grant or, if the date of grant is not a trading day, on the most
recent trading day immediately prior to the date of grant; or (iii) if sale prices are not
regularly reported for the Common Stock as described in clause (i) or (ii) above, then the Fair
Market Value shall be such value as the Committee in good faith determines.

B.  Number of Shares : Each Option Certificate shall state the number of shares of the
Common Stock to which it pertains.

C.  Term of Option : Each Option Certificate shall state the term of the Option which
shall be ten (10) years from the date of the grant thereof, or at such earlier or later time as the
Committee shall expressly state in the Option Certificate.

D.  Date of Exercise : Each Option Certificate shall state the date or dates on which
the Option becomes exercisable, and may provide that the Option rights accrue or become exercisable
in installments over a period of months or years, or upon the attainment of stated goals or events
or through other circumstances or programs approved by the Committee. The Committee shall have the
right to accelerate the date of exercise of any installment of any Option.

E.  Cancellation and Repurchase Rights : An Option Certificate may stipulate that an
Option which becomes exercisable shall be subject to cancellation or that shares purchased upon the
exercise of such Option shall be subject to repurchase rights in favor of the Company. In such
event the Committee shall determine the date or dates, or event or events, upon which such

cancellation or repurchase rights shall become effective or shall lapse, as the case may be
and those provisions shall be set forth in the Option Certificate.

F.  Medium of Payment : The Option price shall be payable upon the exercise of the
Option. It shall be payable (a) in United States dollars in cash or by check, (b) if permitted by
the Committee, in shares of the Common Stock held by the Option holder for at least six months
having a fair market value (determined in the manner provided in Section VI.A above as of the date
of exercise) equal to the cash exercise price of the Option, (c) at the discretion of the
Committee, by delivery of the Option holder s personal note, for full, partial or no recourse,
bearing interest payable not less than annually at market rate on the date of exercise and no less
than 100% of the applicable Federal rate, as defined in Section 1274(d) of the Code, with or
without the pledge of shares of the Common Stock as collateral, (d) at the discretion of the
Committee, in accordance with a cashless exercise program established with a securities brokerage
firm, or (e) at the discretion of the Committee, by any combination of (a), (b), (c) and (d) above.

G.  Termination of Employment : An Option holder who ceases (for any reason other than
death, total and permanent disability, Retirement or termination of employment For Cause) to be an
Employee or Director of the Company or of an Affiliate may exercise any Option granted to the
extent that the right to purchase shares thereunder has accrued on the date of such termination.
Except as set forth in the next sentence or as otherwise set forth in the Plan, such Option shall
be exercisable only within three (3) months after such date of termination, or, if earlier, within
the originally prescribed term of the Option, unless the Committee shall set forth a different
period in the Option Certificate. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, unless a
different time period is specified in the Option Certificate, an Option holder (or permitted
transferee of such individual) who ceases (for any reason other than For Cause) to be a member of
the Board of Directors of the Company after the completion of at least six (6) full years of
services on the Board may exercise any Option granted within the originally prescribed term of the
Option but solely to the extent the right to purchase shares thereunder has accrued on the date of
such termination. For purposes of the Plan, employment shall not be deemed terminated by reason of
a transfer to another employer which is the Company or an Affiliate. If any Option is not
exercised following the Option holder s termination within the time specified, the Option shall
terminate and the shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.

An Option holder whose employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated For Cause or
a Director who is removed from the Board of Directors For Cause shall forthwith immediately upon
notice of such termination cease to have any right to exercise any Option, and the Option shall
terminate and the shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan. For purposes of the Plan,
termination  For Cause  shall be deemed to include (and is not limited to) dishonesty with respect
to the Company or any Affiliate, insubordination, substantial malfeasance or non-feasance of duty,
unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, breach by an Option holder of any provision of
any employment, nondisclosure, non-competition or similar agreement between the Option holder and
the Company or any Affiliate, and conduct substantially prejudicial to the business of the Company
or an Affiliate. The determination of the Committee as to the existence of cause shall be
conclusive. Any definition in an agreement between an Option holder and the Company or an
Affiliate, which contains a conflicting

definition of For Cause and which is in effect at the time of such termination, shall
supersede the definition in the Plan with respect to the Option holder.

An Option holder to whom an Option has been granted under the Plan who is absent from work
with the Company or with an Affiliate because of temporary disability, or who is on a permitted
leave of absence for any purpose, shall not, during the period of any such absence, be deemed by
virtue of such absence alone, to have terminated his employment with the Company or with an
Affiliate except as the Committee may otherwise expressly provide in the Option Certificate.

H.  Total and Permanent Disability : If an Option holder ceases to be an Employee or
Director of the Company or of an Affiliate by reason of total and permanent disability, as
determined by the Committee, any Option held by him or her on the date of disability shall be
exercisable as to all or any part of the shares subject to the Option, all of which shares shall be
fully vested as of the date of such disability. A disabled Option holder may exercise such Option
only within a period of one (1) year after the date as of which the Committee determines that he or
she became disabled or within such different period as may be determined by the Committee and set
forth in the Option Certificate, or, if earlier, within the originally prescribed term of the
Option. If any Option is not exercised following the Option holder s total and permanent disability
within the time specified, the Option shall terminate and the shares covered by such Option shall
revert to the Plan . 

I.  Death : If an Option holder dies while the he is an Employee or Director of the
Company or of an Affiliate, any Option held by him at the date of death shall be exercisable as to
all or any part of the shares subject to the Option, all of which shares shall be fully vested as
of the date of the Option holder s death. A deceased Option holder s legal representatives or one
who acquires the Option by will or by the laws of descent and distribution may exercise such Option
only within a period of one (1) year after the date of death or within such different period as may
be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Option Certificate, or, if earlier, within the
originally prescribed term of the Option. If any Option is not exercised following the Option
holder s death within the time specified, the Option shall terminate and the shares covered by such
Option shall revert to the Plan.

J.  Retirement : Unless otherwise set forth in an Option Certificate, immediately upon
an Option holder s Retirement, such individual s then unvested Options, including those held by a
permitted transferee of such individual, shall automatically accelerate and become fully vested for
fifty percent (50%) of the number of shares covered by such unvested Options and for an additional
ten percent (10%) of the number of shares covered by such unvested Options for every year of
employment by the Company or any of its Affiliates beyond ten (10) years, up to the remaining
number of unvested Options. Upon Retirement, a retired Option holder (or permitted transferee of
such individual) may exercise any then outstanding Options solely to the extent the right to
purchase shares has accrued or has been accelerated only within a period of three (3) years after
the date of Retirement or within such different period as may be determined by the Committee and
set forth in the Option Certificate, or, if earlier, within the originally prescribed term of the
Option. If any Option is not exercised following the Option holder s Retirement within the time
specified, the Option shall terminate and the shares covered by such Option shall

revert to the Plan. For purposes of the Plan, the term  Retirement  as to any Employee or
Director of the Company or any of its Affiliates shall mean such person s leaving the employment of
the Company and its Affiliates after reaching age 55 with ten (10) years of service with the
Company or its Affiliates, but not including pursuant to any termination For Cause or pursuant to
any termination for insufficient performance, as determined by the Company.

The provisions of this Section VI.J shall be retroactive and shall apply to all outstanding
Options granted under the Plan, regardless of the date of grant.

K.  Exercise of Option and Issue of Shares : Options shall be exercised by giving
written notice to the Company or its designee, together with provision for payment of the Option
price in accordance with Section VI.F. Such written notice shall be signed by the person exercising
the Option, shall state the number of shares of the Common Stock with respect to which the Option
is being exercised, and shall contain any warranty required by Article VII of the Plan. The
issuance of the shares of the Common Stock upon exercise of the Option may be delayed by the
Company if any law or regulation requires the Company to take any action with respect to the shares
prior to the issuance thereof. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, nothing contained
herein shall be deemed to require the Company to issue any shares of the Common Stock if prohibited
by law or applicable regulation.

The shares of the Common Stock shall, upon issuance, be paid-up, non-assessable shares.

L.  Assignability and Transferability of Option : By its terms, an Option granted to an
Option holder shall not be transferable by such Option holder other than (i) by will or by the laws
of descent and distribution, or (ii) pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, as defined
by the Code or Title 1 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules thereunder, or
(iii) as otherwise determined by the Committee. The designation of a beneficiary of an Option by
an Option holder shall not be deemed a transfer prohibited by this Section. Except as provided in
the preceding sentence, an Option shall be exercisable, during an Option holder s lifetime, only by
the Option holder (or by his or her legal representative) and shall not be assigned, pledged, or
hypothecated in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise) and shall not be subject to
execution, attachment or similar process. Any attempted transfer, assignment, pledge,
hypothecation, or other disposition of any Option or of any rights granted thereunder contrary to
the provisions of this Section, or the levy of any attachment or similar process upon an Option or
other such rights, shall be null and void.

M.  Other Provisions : The Option Certificates shall be subject to such other terms and
conditions, including, without limitation, restrictions upon the exercise of the Option, as the
Committee shall deem advisable.

N.  Non-Employee Director Options : Each Director of the Company who is not an Employee
of the Company or any of its Affiliates and who is appointed or elected to the Board of Directors
of the Company on or after February 7, 2003, upon first being appointed or elected to the Board
shall be automatically granted an Option to purchase 20,000 shares of Common Stock (each, an
 Initial Grant )

Each Director of the Company who is not an Employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates
shall be automatically granted an Option to purchase an additional 10,000 shares of Common Stock
(each a  Subsequent Grant  provided that on the date of grant such person is still a member of
the Board of Directors of the Company. The date of grant of each Subsequent Grant to any Director
appointed or elected to the Board of Directors of the Company on or after February 7, 2003 shall be
the anniversary date of such Director s initial appointment or election to the Board. The date of
grant of each Subsequent Grant to any Director appointed or elected to the Board of Directors of
the Company prior to February 7, 2003 shall be the anniversary date of such Director s most recent
prior Option grant under the Plan.

The Initial Grant shall be exercisable as to 8,000 of the shares subject thereto upon
completion of one full year of service on the Board of Directors of the Company after the date of
grant, and as to an additional 6,000 shares upon completion of the second full year of such
service, and as to the remaining 6,000 shares upon completion of the third full year of such
service. Each Subsequent Grant shall be exercisable as to 4,000 of the shares subject thereto upon
completion of one full year of service on the Board of Directors of the Company after the date of
grant, and as to an additional 3,000 shares upon completion of the second full year of such
service, and as to the remaining 3,000 shares upon completion of the third full year of such
service.

Each Option granted under this Section VI.N shall have an exercise price equal to the fair
market value per share of Common Stock on the date of grant, as determined under Section VI.A.
above, and a term of ten (10) years, unless earlier terminated pursuant to the other provisions of
the Plan or the terms of the grant. Section VI.G, which cancels the Options of any Option holder
determined by the Committee to have been terminated For Cause, shall not apply to the awards under
this Section VI.N.

O.  Tax Withholding : In the event that any federal, state, or local income taxes,
employment taxes, Federal Insurance Contributions Act withholdings or other amounts are required by
applicable law or governmental regulation to be withheld from the Option holder s salary in
connection with the exercise of an Option, the Option holder shall advance in cash to the Company,
or to any Affiliate of the Company which employs or employed the Option holder, the amount of such
withholdings unless a different withholding arrangement, including the use of shares of the Common
Stock, is authorized by the Committee (and permitted by law), provided, however, that with respect
to persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, any such withholding arrangement involving
use of shares shall be in compliance with any applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under
Section 16 of the Exchange Act. If the Committee allows withholding through use of shares of the
Common Stock, it shall be only to the statutory minimum amount. For purposes hereof, the fair
market value of the shares withheld for purposes of payroll withholding shall be determined in the
manner provided in Section VI.A. as of the date of exercise. If the fair market value of the shares
withheld is less than the amount of payroll withholdings required, the Option holder may be
required to advance the difference in cash to the Company or the Affiliate employer.

P.  Reload Options : The Committee may authorize reload Options ( Reload Options ) to
purchase for cash or shares a number of shares of the Common Stock. The number of Reload Options
shall equal (i) the number of shares of the Common Stock used to exercise the underlying Options
and (ii) to the extent authorized by the Committee, the number of shares of the Common Stock used
to satisfy any tax withholding requirement incident to the exercise of the underlying Options. The
grant of a Reload Option will become effective upon the exercise of underlying Options through the
use of shares of the Common Stock held by the option holder for at least 6 months. Reload Options
must be evidenced in Option Certificates or agreements. The Option price per share of the Common
Stock deliverable upon the exercise of a Reload Option shall be the Fair Market Value on the date
the grant of the Reload Option becomes effective. The term of each Reload Option shall be equal to
the remaining option term of the underlying Option. No additional Reload Options shall be granted
to Option holders when Options and/or Reload Options are exercised pursuant to the terms of the
Plan following termination of the Option holder s employment or on account of death or total and
permanent disability. All other provisions of the Plan with respect to Options shall apply equally
to Reload Options.

Q.  Rights as a Shareholder : No Option holder shall have rights as a shareholder with
respect to any shares of the Common Stock covered by such Option except as to such shares as have
been registered in the Company s share register in the name of such person upon the due exercise of
the Option.

R.  Effect of Corporate Transaction : In the event of a Corporate Transaction, the
Committee shall, prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, as to each outstanding
Option under the Plan either (i) make appropriate provisions for the Options to be assumed by the
successor corporation or its parent or be replaced with a comparable options to purchase shares of
the capital stock of the successor corporation or its parent; or (ii) upon written notice to the
Option holders provide that all Options must be exercised and the Plan will terminate (all Options
having been made fully exercisable as set forth below in this Section VI.R); or (iii) terminate all
Options in exchange for a cash payment equal to the excess of the then aggregate Fair Market Value
of the shares subject to such Options (all Options having been made fully exercisable as set forth
below in this Section VI.R) over the aggregate Option price thereof. The determination of
comparability under this Section shall be made by the Committee and its determination shall be
final, binding and conclusive.

Each outstanding Option under the Plan which is assumed in connection with a Corporate
Transaction or is otherwise to continue in effect shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately
after such Corporate Transaction, to apply and pertain to the number and class of securities which
would have been issued, in consummation of such Corporate Transaction, to an actual holder of the
same number of shares of the Common Stock as are subject to such Option immediately prior to such
Corporate Transaction. Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Option price payable per
share, provided the aggregate Option price payable for such securities shall remain the same. In
addition, the class and number of securities available for issuance under the Plan on both an
aggregate and per participant basis shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect the effect of the
Corporate Transaction upon the Company s capital structure.

If at any time within two (2) years of the effective date of a Corporate Transaction there is
an Involuntary Employment Action with respect to any Designated Employee, each then outstanding
Option assumed or replaced under this Section and held by such Designated Employee (or a permitted
transferee of such person) shall, upon the occurrence of such Involuntary Employment Action,
automatically accelerate so that each such Option shall immediately become exercisable for the
total number of shares of Common Stock at the time subject to such Option, as assumed or replaced,
and may be exercised for all or any portion of those shares to the extent not previously exercised.
Upon the occurrence of an Involuntary Employment Action with respect to a Designated Employee, any
outstanding Options held by such Designated Employee (and his or her permitted transferees) shall
be exercisable within one (1) year of the Involuntary Employment Action or, if earlier, within the
originally prescribed term of the Option. An  Involuntary Employment Action  as to an Designated
Employee shall mean the involuntary termination of the Designated Employee s employment with the
Company or an Affiliate other than For Cause, or the termination by the Designated Employee of his
employment with the Company and its Affiliates upon the occurrence, without the Option holder s
express written consent, of any of the following circumstances unless such circumstances are
corrected (provided such circumstances are capable of correction): (i) any adverse and material
alteration and diminution in the Option holder s position, title or responsibilities (other than a
mere change in title or reporting relationship) as they existed immediately prior to the Corporate
Transaction or as the same may be increased from time to time thereafter, (ii) a reduction of the
Option holder s annual base salary or targeted bonus opportunity, in each case as in effect on the
date prior to the Corporate Transaction or as the same may be increased from time to time
thereafter, or (iii) relocation of the offices at which the Option holder is employed which
increases the Option holder s daily commute by more than 100 miles on a round trip basis.

In the event the Company terminates the Plan or elects to cash out the Options in accordance
with clauses (ii) and (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section VI.R, then the exercisability of
each Option outstanding under the Plan shall be automatically accelerated so that each such Option
shall immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, become exercisable for the full number of
shares of the Common Stock purchasable under such Option to the extent not previously exercised and
may be exercised prior to such Corporate Transaction for all or any portion of such shares. The
Committee shall, in its discretion, determine the timing and mechanics required to implement the
foregoing sentence.

S.  Acceleration Upon Corporate Change in Control : In the event of a Corporate Change
in Control then the exercisability of each Option outstanding under the Plan shall be automatically
accelerated so that each such Option shall immediately prior to such Corporate Change in Control,
become exercisable for the full number of shares of the Common Stock purchasable under such Option
to the extent not previously exercised and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares
consistent with Article VIII within the originally prescribed term of the Option. The Committee
shall, in its discretion, determine the timing and mechanics required to implement the foregoing
sentence. However, an outstanding Option under the Plan shall not be accelerated under this Section
if and to the extent one or more limitations imposed by the Committee at the time of grant preclude
such acceleration upon a Corporate Change in Control.

T. The provisions of Sections VI.R and VI.S shall be retroactive and shall apply to all
Options granted under the Plan, regardless of the date of grant.

U. The grant of Options under the Plan shall in no way affect the right of the Company to
adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge,
consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.

VII. PURCHASE FOR INVESTMENT

If and to the extent that the issuance of shares pursuant to the exercise of Options is deemed
by the Company to be subject to the Securities Act, or to the securities law of any other
jurisdiction, the Company shall be under no obligation to issue shares covered by such exercise
unless the person or persons who exercises or who exercise such Option shall make such warranty or
take such action as may be required by any applicable securities law of any applicable jurisdiction
and shall, in the case of the applicability of the Securities Act, in the absence of an effective
registration under the Securities Act with respect to such shares, warrant to the Company, at the
time of such exercise, that such person is or that they are acquiring the shares to be issued to
such person or to them, pursuant to such exercise of the Option, for investment and not with a view
to, or for sale in connection with, the distribution of any such shares; and in such events the
person or persons acquiring such shares shall be bound by the provisions of a legend endorsed upon
any share certificates expressing the requirements of any applicable non-United States securities
law, or, in cases deemed governed by the Securities Act, substantially the following legend, which
shall be endorsed upon the certificate or certificates evidencing the shares issued by the Company
pursuant to such exercise:

The shares have not been registered under the securities laws of any country,
including the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Company may
refuse to permit the sale or transfer of all or any of the shares until (1) the
Company has received an opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company that any such
transfer is exempt from registration under all applicable securities laws or (2) in
the case of sales or transfers to which the United States Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, is applicable, unless a registration statement with respect to such shares
shall be effective under such Act, as amended. 

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company may delay issuance of the shares
until completion of any action or obtaining of any consent which the Company deems necessary under
any applicable law (including without limitation state securities or  blue sky  laws).

VIII. ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION

In the event that outstanding shares of the Common Stock are changed into or exchanged for a
different number or kind of shares or other securities of the Company or of another corporation by
reason of any reorganization, merger, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, change in
par value, stock split-up, combination of shares or dividend payable

in capital stock, or the like except in a Corporate Transaction for which such adjustments are set
forth in Section VI.R above, appropriate adjustment shall be made in the number and kind of shares
for the purchase of which Options may be granted under the Plan, including Options to be granted
pursuant to Section VI.N above, and, in addition, appropriate adjustment shall be made in the
number and kind of shares and in the Option price per share subject to outstanding Options so that
each Option holder shall be in a position equivalent to the position the Option holder would have
been in had the Option holder exercised the Options immediately prior to the applicable event.

IX. DISSOLUTION OR LIQUIDATION OF THE COMPANY

Upon the dissolution or liquidation of the Company other than in connection with transactions
to which the preceding Article VIII is applicable, all Options granted hereunder shall terminate
and become null and void; provided, however, that if the rights hereunder of an Option holder or
one who acquired an Option by will or by the laws of descent and distribution have not otherwise
terminated and expired, the Option holder or such person shall have the right immediately prior to
such dissolution or liquidation to exercise any Option granted hereunder to the extent that the
right to purchase shares thereunder has accrued as of the date of exercise immediately prior to
such dissolution or liquidation.

X. TERMINATION OF THE PLAN

Unless the Committee shall decide to reduce or, subject to shareholder approval, if required
under Article XI, to extend the duration of the Plan, the Plan shall terminate on December 31,
2011. Termination of the Plan shall not affect any Options granted or any Option Certificates or
agreements executed prior to the effective date of termination.

XI. AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN

The Plan may be amended by the Committee or the Board of Directors of the Company; provided,
however, that if the scope of any amendment is such as to require shareholder approval then such
amendment shall require approval by the shareholders. Any amendment shall not affect any Options
theretofore granted and any Option Certificates or agreements theretofore executed by the Company
and any Option holder unless such amendment shall expressly so provide. No amendment shall
adversely affect any Option holder with respect to an outstanding Option without the written
consent of such Option holder. With the consent of the Option holder affected, the Committee may
amend any outstanding Option Certificate or agreement in a manner not inconsistent with the Plan,
including, without limitation, to accelerate the date of exercise of any installment of any Option.

XII. EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP

Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prevent the Company or an Affiliate from
terminating the employment of any Employee, nor to prevent any Employee from terminating his
employment with the Company or an Affiliate.

XIII. EFFECTIVE DATE

The Plan first became effective on January 2, 1985.

XIV GOVERNING LAW

The Plan shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the law of The Commonwealth of
Massachusetts.

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.33>
 3
 b68103biexv10w33.htm
 EX-10.33 BOARD OF DIRECTORS - ANNUAL RETAINER SUMMARY SHEET

exv10w33 

Exhibit 10.33 

M E M O R A N D U M 

To : File 
     From : Susan Alexander 
     Date : July 23, 2007 
 Subject : Director Fees and Expenses

The following is a summary of the retainers and meeting fees payable to
directors from the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders until the 2008 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

Retainers and Fees 

Annual Retainers 

$25,000

Board retainer 

$20,000

additional annual retainer for chair of Finance and Audit Committee 

$ 5,000

additional annual retainer for members of Finance and Audit
Committee 

$10,000

additional annual retainer for chairs of Corporate
Governance Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee and Transaction Committee 

$60,000

additional annual retainer for Chairman of the Board 

Annual retainers will be paid in four equal quarterly installments.

Meeting Fees 

$2,500

each Board meeting attended (in person) 

$1,250

each Board meeting attended (by teleconference) 

$1,000

each committee meeting attended (in person or by teleconference) 

Meeting fees will be paid for attendance at formal meetings of the Board or
its committees, i.e., those for which meeting minutes are prepared. Meeting
fees will not be paid for informal gatherings of directors.

Special Service Fee (extraordinary) 

Biogen
Idec 14 Cambridge Center Cambridge, MA 02142 Phone 617-679-2000 www.biogenidec.com

The special service fee is for a full day of service, excluding services
(and travel) relating to Board or committee meetings, at the request of the
Board or the Company and which involves extensive travel by a director. It
is expected that situations for which a special service fee is due will be
infrequent.

Retainers and fees will be paid shortly following the end of each calendar
quarter (or, with respect to the fourth calendar quarter, by the end of the
year). Each payment will be accompanied by a schedule explaining how the
payment was calculated. Retainers are calculated on the basis of the
position held at the beginning of the calendar quarter for which payment is
to be made.

Payments of retainers and fees will be reported to the IRS on Form 1099 as
income, unless the payments are made to qualifying deferred compensation
accounts previously established by directors.

Expenses 

The Company will reimburse directors for all reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses associated with their duties as directors, including travel to and
from Board and committee meetings. The expenses of spouses and significant
others will be reimbursed when directors  spouses and significant others are
invited to attend Company events with directors.

Expenses will be reimbursed when submitted. Expense reports, including
receipts or other supporting documentation, should be sent to the Company s
accounts payable department (attn. Drew Gollerkeri). If you would like to
fax the expense report to expedite the approval process, please fax it to
Bob Licht at 866-819-5288.

Reimbursement for directors expenses usually will  not  be reported to
the IRS as income. Reimbursement for travel expenses of others will be
reported to the IRS as income, and reimbursement for certain other expenses
(for example a program that does not meet IRS guidelines) may also be
reportable as income.

Questions 

Questions about retainers, fees and expenses may be addressed to the
following individuals:

Bob Licht (retainers and fees,  including special service fee ) 
Vice President, Chief Corporation Counsel 
Biogen Idec Inc. 
14 Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, MA 02142

Tel. (617) 679-3662 
E-mail:  bob.licht@biogenidec.com 

Drew Gollerkeri (expenses) 
Associate Director, Accounts Payable 
Biogen Idec Inc. 
14 Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
Tel. (617) 679-3818 
E-mail:  drew.gollerkeri@biogenidec.com 

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.45>
 4
 b68103biexv10w45.htm
 EX-10.45 AMEND. NO.1 TO 2006 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS EQUITY PLAN

exv10w45 

Exhibit 10.45 

BIOGEN IDEC INC. 
2006 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS EQUITY PLAN 

First Amendment 

Pursuant to Section 17 of the Biogen Idec Inc. 2006 Non-Employee Directors Equity Plan (the
 Plan ), the following clarifying amendments are hereby made to Section 7(d) of the Plan,
effective as of the Plan s Effective Date:

1. Section 7(d)(i) is amended to read in its entirety as follows:  In the event that the
Participant s Board service shall terminate on account of the Retirement of the Participant,each
Option granted to such Participant that is outstanding as of the date of such termination shall
become fully exercisable and shall remain exercisable by the Participant (or, in the event of the
Participant s death while such Option is still outstanding, by the Participant s legal
representatives, heirs or legatees) for the three year period following such termination (or for
such other period as may be provided by the Committee), but in no event following the
expiration of its term. 

2. Section 7(d)(iii) is amended to read in its entirety as follows:  In the event that the
Participant s Board service shall terminate on account of the Disability of the Participant,each
Option granted to such Participant that is outstanding as of the date of such termination shall
become fully exercisable and shall remain exercisable by the Participant (or such Participant s
legal representatives or, in the event of the Participant s death while such Option is still
outstanding, such Participant s legal representatives, heirs or legatees) for the one year period
following such termination (or for such other period as may be provided by the Committee), but
in no event following the expiration of its term. 

3. Section 7(d)(vi) is amended to read in its entirety as follows:  In the event of the
Participant s death within six months following the Participant s termination of Board service for
any reason other than (A) Retirement, (B) death, (C) Disability or (D) For Cause, each Option
granted to such Participant that is vested and outstanding as of the date of death shall remain
exercisable by such Participant s legal representatives, heirs
or legatees for the one year period
following the date of death (or for such other period as may be provided by the Committee), but
in no event following the expiration of its term. 

In
Witness Whereof,  Biogen Idec Inc. has caused this instrument of amendment to be
executed by its duly authorized officer this 11th day of October 2006.

Biogen
Idec Inc.   

By:   
     /s/ Craig E. Schneier

Craig E. Schneier, Ph.D.  

Executive Vice President, Human Resources  

</EX-10.45>

<EX-10.49>
 5
 b68103biexv10w49.htm
 EX-10.49 LETTER REGARDING EMPLOYEMENT ARRANGEMENT OF PAUL J. CLANCY

exv10w49 

EXHIBIT 10.49

Dear Paul:

I am pleased to confirm your promotion to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This position will report to James C. Mullen, Chief Executive Officer, and will be based at our
Cambridge, MA facility.

The specific terms of your promotion are as follows.

Promotion Date : The effective date of your promotion is August 13, 2007.

Base Salary:  Effective with the date of promotion, your biweekly salary will be $17,307.70, which
is equivalent to an annual salary of $450,000.20.

Short-term-incentive:  Your target bonus level under Biogen Idec s Annual Bonus Plan will be 50% of
your annualized base salary.

Long-term Incentive:  You will be granted 8,000 restricted stock units (RSUs). Assuming your
continued employment, the RSUs will vest and convert into shares of Biogen Idec common stock at the
rate of one-third per year for three years, starting on the first anniversary of your grant date.
The grant date will be the first trading day of the month following your effective date of
promotion.

You will also be granted an option to purchase 20,000 shares of the common stock of Biogen Idec at
an exercise price equal to the closing price of Biogen Idec stock as reported on the NASDAQ
National Market on the grant date. The grant date will be the first trading day of the month
following your effective date of promotion. The option will have a ten-year term and, assuming
your continued employment, will vest equally over a four-year period at the rate of 25% per year,
starting on the first anniversary of your grant date.

The actual terms of your RSU and stock option grants will be communicated to you in a separate
Notice of Grant. You are considered a  designated employee , as defined in the 2005 Omnibus Equity
Plan. Please read the 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan Document for information on the implications of
being a designated employee under the Plan, as well as any applicable terms and conditions of your
grants under this program. The 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan Document can be found on iNet.

Stock Trading Plan:  As an Executive Vice President of the Company, you are required to enter into
a 10b5-1 stock trading plan. A 10b5-1 plan enables you to buy and sell Biogen Idec securities
under pre-specified conditions (e.g., when the price of Biogen Idec stock reaches a certain price),
and allows you to sell outside of quarterly  trading windows  whether or not you are in possession
of material, nonpublic information. More information on 10b5-1 trading plans can be found on iNet.

Additional Executive Benefits 

Vacation:  Based on your current years of service, you are entitled to 25 vacation days per
year, accrued on a per pay period basis.

Supplemental Savings Plan:  You are entitled to participate in Biogen Idec s Supplemental
Savings Plan (SSP). This plan allows you to make pre-tax deferrals of up to 80% of your base
salary and up

Biogen
Idec 14 Cambridge Center Cambridge, MA 02142 Phone 617-679-2000 www.biogenidec.com

Page 2 of 4

 to 100% of your Annual Bonus payment. Your contributions to this plan may be
limited by your contributions towards other plans (e.g., 401k, ESPP, medical, etc.).

Life Insurance:  You will be provided life insurance coverage equal to three times your annual
base salary, subject to meeting the medical standards stated in the group term life insurance
policy for U.S. employees. Biogen Idec pays the premium for this insurance. The IRS requires
employers to impute the value of company-paid life insurance for coverage over $50,000. This
imputed income will be displayed on your pay stub.

Severance:  In the event Biogen Idec terminates your employment other than For Cause (as defined
in the executive severance document attached to this letter), you will receive a severance
benefit of at least nine months of your annual cash compensation and coverage under Biogen
Idec s group medical and dental insurance plans. Your severance benefits are explained in
greater detail in the attached executive severance document.

IRC 280G Excise Taxes:  In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in Section 280g of the
Internal Revenue Code), compensation paid to you may trigger an excise tax (in addition to
ordinary income taxes). Biogen Idec will reimburse you for any excise taxes you incur as a
result of a Change in Control. This includes gains from the exercise of stock options and
vesting of restricted stock and/or units, as well as the reimbursement for such penalties .  In
addition, Biogen Idec will reimburse you for income taxes imposed on the excise taxes.

Tax Preparation, Financial and Estate Planning:  You are entitled to reimbursement of up to
$7,500 per calendar year (January 1   December 31) for expenses incurred due to tax preparation,
financial and/or estate planning services, as well as the purchase of tax preparation and/or
financial planning software. Eligible services provided by qualified providers, accompanied by
copies of receipts/invoices, will be reimbursed. Such reimbursements are considered taxable
income.

Air Travel Upgrade:  You are entitled to fly first class on all U.S. transcontinental flights
(e.g., Boston to San Diego). Overseas flights and other domestic flights are subject to the
same policy as all other employees.

Once you have accepted this offer, please sign and return a copy of this letter to me.

I am confident you will continue to contribute to Biogen Idec s success and wish you the best of
luck in your new position.

Sincerely, 

/s/ James C. Mullen

James C. Mullen  

Chief Executive Officer and President  

cc: Craig E. Schneier, Ph.D.

Page 3 of 4

Executive Severance   Executive Vice President 

As an Executive Vice President, you are entitled to severance benefits in the event your employment
is terminated by Biogen Idec other than For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these
terms are defined in the Biogen Idec 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan). Your severance benefits are
comprised of (i) a lump sum payment (as calculated below), (ii) upon completion of the appropriate
forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance
plans, to the same extent permitted by COBRA and to the same extent such insurance is then provided
to regular employees of Biogen Idec, including payment by you of a portion of the insurance
premiums (i.e., the  Insurance Benefit ), and (iii) the reasonable cost of up to nine months of
executive-level outplacement services from a recognized provider of such services, at the expense
of Biogen Idec (upon receipt of appropriate documentation).

The lump sum severance payment is calculated as follows:

9   (A x 2.5)  x B = lump sum payment 

where: 
       
      A is the number of full years of service with Biogen Idec (but A x 2.5 may not exceed 12), and
B is the monthly equivalent of your target annual cash compensation at the time of your termination (i.e., one-twelfth
of the sum of your then annual base salary plus target annual bonus). 

The lump sum payment (less applicable taxes and other mandatory deductions as required by law) will
be paid to you following the later 1  of (i) the termination of your employment with
Biogen Idec and (ii) the effective date of a signed general release in favor of Biogen Idec (see
below). The Insurance Benefit will continue until the earlier of (i) the date you become eligible
to participate in the medical and dental insurance plan of another employer or (ii) the date that
is  9   (A x 2.5)  months, but not more than 21 months, following the termination of your
employment with Biogen Idec (the  Insurance Benefit Period ). You will have the right, at your own
expense, to continue your participation in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance plans
at the expiration of the Insurance Benefit Period, pursuant to the provisions of COBRA, but only
for an 18-month period that will be deemed to have commenced at the start of your severance.

The following are examples of how the lump sum payment and Insurance Benefit Period are determined:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after ten months of employment, you will
receive a lump sum payment equal to nine months of your target annual cash compensation and
continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for nine months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that
date. COBRA continuation of medical and dental benefits is available, at your own expense, for
an additional nine months after this nine-month Insurance Benefit Period. 

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump sum
payment equal to twenty-one months  9 12  of your target cash annual compensation and continue
to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for twenty-one months, unless you
become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date. 

1  
       
     If you are a  specified employee  under Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (which includes certain officers of public
companies, including Biogen Idec), that portion of your severance payment that
is subject to (and not otherwise exempt from) Section 409A will be paid in a
lump sum six months after the date of your termination of employment. 

Page 4 of 4

If at any time within two years following a Corporate Transaction or Corporate Change in Control
(as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, other than For Cause or for reason of
death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you
experience an Involuntary Employment Action (defined below) and as a result you terminate your
employment with Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, then, regardless of the length of
your service with Biogen Idec and the succeeding corporate entity, and in lieu of the formula set
forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment 2  equivalent to twenty-four months of
your then-current target annual cash compensation. In addition, you will be entitled to continue
participating in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for twenty-four months, unless you
become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date.
The term  Involuntary Employment Action  shall have the definition set forth in Biogen Idec s 2005
Omnibus Equity Plan, provided, however, that for purposes hereof the term  Corporate Transaction 
used in such definition shall be deemed to mean either a Corporate Transaction or Change in
Control, as the case may be.

Payment and provision of the severance benefits described above are conditioned on your execution
of a general release in favor of Biogen Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen
Idec, with respect to any and all claims relating to your employment and the termination of your
employment with Biogen Idec. If you retire or voluntarily terminate your employment with Biogen
Idec, or Biogen Idec terminates your employment For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as
these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you do not provide the
requisite general release, you will not be eligible to receive the severance benefits described
above.

2  
       
     If you are a  specified employee  under Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (which includes certain officers of public
companies, including Biogen Idec), that portion of your severance payment that
is subject to (and not otherwise exempt from) Section 409A will be paid in a
lump sum six months after the date of your termination of employment. 

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.50>
 6
 b68103biexv10w50.htm
 EX-10.50 LETTER REGARDING EMPLOYEMENT ARRANGEMENT OF ROBERT HAMM

exv10w50 

EXHIBIT 10.50

Dear Bob:

I am pleased to confirm your promotion to EVP, Pharmaceutical Operations   Technology. This
position will report to James Mullen, CEO   President, and will be based at our Cambridge, MA
facility.

The specific terms of your promotion are as follows.

Promotion Date : The effective date of your promotion is October 12, 2007.

Base Salary:  Effective with the date of promotion, your biweekly salary will be $16,769.24, which
is equivalent to an annual salary of $436,000.24.

Short-term-incentive:  Your target bonus level under Biogen Idec s Annual Bonus Plan will be 50% of
your annualized base salary.

Long-term Incentive:  You will be granted 2,700 restricted stock units (RSUs). Assuming your
continued employment, these RSUs will vest and convert into shares of Biogen Idec common stock at
the rate of one-third per year over three years, beginning on the first anniversary of your grant
date. The grant date will be the first trading day of the month following your effective date of
promotion.

You will also be granted an option to purchase 6,900 shares of the common stock of Biogen Idec at
an exercise price equal to the closing price of Biogen Idec stock as reported on the NASDAQ
National Market on the grant date. The grant date will be the first trading day of the month
following your effective date of promotion. The option will have a ten-year term and, assuming
your continued employment, will vest equally over a four-year period at the rate of 25% per year,
starting on the first anniversary of your grant date.

The actual terms of your RSU and stock option grants will be communicated to you in a separate
Notice of Grant. You are considered a  designated employee , as defined in the 2005 Omnibus Equity
Plan. You are encouraged to carefully review the 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan Document for information
on the implications of being a designated employee under the Plan, as well as any applicable terms
and conditions of your grants under this program. This document is available on iNet in the Human
Resources Business Area. If you do not have access to the iNet or would prefer to have a copy
mailed to you, please call the HR Helpdesk at 866-824-8444 (toll free), 617-679-3400 or ext. 83400
(internal).

Stock Trading Plan:  As an Executive Vice President of the Company, you are required to enter into a
10b5-1 stock trading plan. A 10b5-1 plan enables you to buy and sell Biogen Idec securities under
pre-specified conditions (e.g., when the price of Biogen Idec stock reaches a certain price), and
allows you to sell outside of quarterly  trading windows  whether or not you are in possession of
material, nonpublic information. More information on 10b5-1 trading plans can be found on iNet.

Biogen
Idec 14 Cambridge Center Cambridge, MA 02142 Phone 617-679-2000 www.biogenidec.com

Page 2 of 6

Additional Executive Benefits 

Vacation:  You are entitled to 25 vacation days per year, accrued on a per pay period basis.

Supplemental Savings Plan:  You are entitled to participate in Biogen Idec s Supplemental Savings
Plan (SSP). This plan allows you to make pre-tax deferrals of up to 80% of your base salary and
up to 100% of your Annual Bonus payment. Your contributions to this plan may be limited by your
contributions towards other plans (e.g., 401k, ESPP, medical, etc.). If you were not previously
eligible for the SSP, enrollment information will be sent to you shortly.

Life Insurance:  You will be provided life insurance coverage equal to three times your annual
base salary, subject to meeting the medical standards stated in the group term life insurance
policy for U.S. employees. Biogen Idec pays the premium for this insurance. The IRS requires
employers to impute the value of company-paid life insurance for coverage over $50,000. This
imputed income will be displayed on your pay stub.

Severance:  Under certain circumstances, you will be entitled to receive severance benefits.
Your severance benefits are explained in detail in the attached executive severance document.

IRC 280G Excise Taxes:  In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in Section 280G of the
Internal Revenue Code), compensation paid to you may trigger an excise tax (in addition to
ordinary income taxes). Biogen Idec will reimburse you for any excise taxes you incur under IRC
280G as a result of a Change in Control. This includes gains from the exercise of stock options
and vesting of restricted stock and/or units, as well as the reimbursement for such penalties . 
In addition, Biogen Idec will reimburse you for income taxes imposed on the excise taxes.

Tax Preparation, Financial and Estate Planning:  You are entitled to reimbursement of up to
$7,500 per calendar year (January 1   December 31) for expenses incurred due to tax preparation,
financial and/or estate planning services, as well as the purchase of tax preparation and/or
financial planning software. To receive reimbursement, copies of receipts/invoices from
eligible service providers should be submitted through the Company s third party reimbursement
service provider. Such reimbursements are considered taxable income.

Air Travel Upgrade:  You are entitled to fly first class on all U.S. transcontinental flights
(e.g., Boston to San Diego). Overseas flights and other domestic flights are subject to the
same policy as all other employees.

Page 3 of 6

Once you have accepted this offer, please sign and return a copy of this letter to me. I am
confident you will continue to contribute to Biogen Idec s success and wish you the best of luck in
your new position.

Sincerely, 

/s/ James C. Mullen

James Mullen  

CEO   President  

cc: Craig Schneier

Your employment at Biogen Idec continues to be employment at-will. This means that just as you are
free to leave your employment at any time, with or without cause or notice, Biogen Idec also has
the same right to terminate your employment at any time, with or without cause or notice. 

Page 4 of 6

Executive Severance   Executive Vice President 

As an Executive Vice President, you are entitled to severance benefits in the event your employment
is terminated by Biogen Idec other than For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these
terms are defined in the Biogen Idec 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan).

Benefits 

Your severance benefits are comprised of (i) a lump sum payment (as calculated below), (ii) upon
completion of the appropriate forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group
medical and dental insurance plans, to the same extent permitted by COBRA and to the same extent
such insurance is then provided to regular employees of Biogen Idec, including payment by you of a
portion of the insurance premiums (i.e., the  Insurance Benefit ) and (iii) the reasonable cost of
up to nine months of executive-level outplacement services from a recognized provider of such
services, at the expense of Biogen Idec (upon receipt of appropriate documentation).

The lump sum severance payment is calculated as follows:

9   (A x 2.5)  x B = lump sum payment 

where: 
       
      A is the number of full years of service with Biogen Idec (but A x 2.5 may not exceed 12), and
B is the monthly equivalent of your target annual cash compensation at the time of your termination (i.e., one-twelfth
of the sum of your then annual base salary plus target annual bonus). 

The following are examples of how the lump sum payment and Insurance Benefit Period are determined:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after 10 months of employment, you will
receive a lump sum payment equal to nine months of your target annual cash compensation and
continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for nine months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that
date. COBRA continuation of medical and dental benefits is available, at your own expense, for
an additional nine months after this nine-month Insurance Benefit Period.  

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump sum
payment equal to 21 months  9 12  of your target annual cash compensation and continue to
participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 21 months, unless you become
eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date.  

If at any time within two years following a Corporate Transaction or Corporate Change in Control
(as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, other than For Cause or for reason of
death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you
experience an Involuntary Employment Action (defined below) and as a result you terminate your
employment with Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, then, regardless of the length of
your service with Biogen Idec and the succeeding corporate entity, and in lieu of the formula set
forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 24 months of your target annual cash
compensation at the time of your termination or at the time of a Corporate Transaction or Corporate
Change in Control, whichever is higher. In addition, you will be entitled to continue
participating in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 24 months, unless you become
eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date. The term
 Involuntary Employment Action  shall have the definition set forth in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus
Equity Plan, provided, however, that the term  Corporate Transaction  used

Page 5 of 6

in that definition shall be deemed to mean either a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control, as
the case may be, and provided also that prior to your termination of employment you have notified
the Chief Legal Counsel or the Head of Human Resources of Biogen Idec in writing of the basis for
your Involuntary Employment Action, you have given such notice within one year of the circumstances
giving rise to your Involuntary Employment Action and Biogen Idec does not cure such circumstances
within 30 days after the date of your notice.

Delivery of Benefits 

Payment and provision of all the benefits provided under this arrangement are conditioned on your
execution and delivery of all necessary forms and an irrevocable general release in favor of Biogen
Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen Idec, with respect to any and all
claims relating to your employment and the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec. If you
retire or voluntarily terminate your employment with Biogen Idec, or Biogen Idec terminates your
employment For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen
Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you do not provide the requisite general release, you will not
be eligible to receive the severance benefits described above.

If all other conditions of this arrangement are met, a lump sum payment (less applicable taxes and
other mandatory deductions as required by law) will be paid to you following the termination of
your employment, no later than the first to occur of: a) 90 days following your termination of
your employment with Biogen Idec and b) March 15 of the year following the calendar year in which
termination of employment occurs, unless you are a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (i.e.,  Section 409A ). (If all preconditions to
payment, including the delivery of an irrevocable general release, are not satisfied prior to the
earlier of these two dates, payment to you may be delayed and you may incur additional tax
liabilities under Section 409A.) If you are a  specified employee , to the extent required by
Section 409A, payment will not be made to you before the date which is six months after you
 separate from service  (or, if earlier, your date of death or Disability) unless the payment
qualifies as excepted welfare benefits under Section 409A, does not constitute a  deferral of
compensation  under Section 409A or is otherwise not subject to the requirements of Section 409A.

The Insurance Benefit will continue until the earlier of (i) the date you become eligible to
participate in the medical and dental insurance plan of another employer or (ii) the date that is
 9   (A x 2.5)  months, but not more than 21 months (or 24 months in the case of a Corporate
Transaction or Change in Control), following the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec
(the  Insurance Benefit Period ). You will have the right, at your own expense, to continue your
participation in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance plans at the expiration of the
Insurance Benefit Period, pursuant to the provisions of COBRA, but only for an 18-month period that
will be deemed to have commenced at the start of your severance.

General  

Biogen Idec shall administer and shall have the discretionary authority to adopt rules for the
management and operation of this arrangement, to interpret the provisions of the arrangement and to
construe the terms of the severance arrangement in its sole discretion. The decision of Biogen
Idec, or the duly authorized delegate, is final and conclusive for all purposes.

The severance arrangement may be amended, modified, suspended or terminated by Biogen Idec at any
time; provided that the severance arrangement may not be amended or terminated without your written
consent for a period of two years following a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control.

Page 6 of 6

This arrangement is unfunded. This arrangement will benefit and bind Biogen Idec and its
successors and permitted assigns and you and your heirs, executors and legal representatives. You
do not have any right to transfer or assign your benefits under this arrangement.

This arrangement shall be construed, administered and enforced according to the laws of the State
of Delaware, except to the extent that such laws are preempted by the federal laws of the United
States of America.

</EX-10.50>

<EX-10.51>
 7
 b68103biexv10w51.htm
 EX-10.51 CONSULTING AGREEMENT, DATED DECEMBER 18, 2007

exv10w51 

EXHIBIT 10.51

December 17, 2007

By Hand Delivery 

Dr. Burt Adelman 

Dear Burt:

You
have advised us that you plan to retire from your employment with Biogen Idec (the
 Company ) as of December 31, 2007 (the  Retirement Date ). In light of your knowledge and
experience, however, the Company wishes to retain your services as a consultant for a period
of time following your retirement.

The purpose of this letter, therefore, is to confirm the agreement between you and the
Company concerning your consulting arrangements (the  Agreement ), as follows:

1.  Consulting Services .

(a)  Consulting Period . The Company hereby engages your services as a
consultant to the Company for the period commencing on the Retirement Date and expiring
six (6) months following the Retirement Date (the  Consulting Period ).

(b)  Services . During the Consulting Period, you shall make yourself available to
the Company to provide such advice and other consulting services, reasonably related to your
skills and experience, as the Company may from time to time request, upon reasonable notice to
you (the  Services ). You agree to coordinate with the Company in respect to any periods of
your unavailability due to vacations or other reasonable absences, in order that you may
continue to meet the Company s needs throughout the Consulting Period.

(c)  Consulting Fee . As full compensation for all Services rendered by you during
the Consulting Period the Company shall pay you a consulting fee of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($400,000) (the  Consulting Fee ). The Consulting Fee shall be payable in one lump sum
on January 4, 2007.

(d)  No Eligibility for Benefits, Plans or Paid Time Off.  As a result of your
retirement, you are entitled to regular retiree health benefits provided by the Company and you and
your qualified beneficiaries may participate at your cost in the Company s group health plan
through the federal law commonly known as  COBRA . You are not otherwise eligible to participate
in, or receive benefits under, any of the Company s employee benefit plans, programs or
arrangements or to holidays, vacation or other paid time off during the Consulting Period.

(e)  Business Expenses . The Company will reimburse you for reasonable and
necessary business expenses incurred by you in providing Services to the Company under this
Agreement during the Consulting Period; provided that those expenses are authorized in
advance, and provided further that you submit, on a timely basis, such documentation and

Biogen
Idec  14 Cambridge Center Cambridge, MA 02142 Phone 617 679 2000
www.biogenidec.com

substantiation of those expenses as the Company may reasonably require from time to time.

(f)  Relationship of the Parties . You and the Company acknowledge and agree
that you are an independent contractor in the performance of Services under this
Agreement, and that nothing in this Agreement creates an employment relationship,
partnership or joint venture between you and the Company.

(g)  Tax Matters . Because you are an independent contractor, the Consulting Fee
will not be subject to withholding for Social Security, unemployment, Medicare, federal, state
or local income or other taxes. You shall be solely responsible for the withholding and
payment of any and all such taxes and other legally-required payments on any sums received
from the Company under this Agreement. You agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Company
and its Affiliates, and their respective shareholders, directors, officers, employees, agents,
successors and assigns, from any and all losses, costs and expenses, including without
limitation attorneys  fees, and any other liabilities incurred as a result of your failure to
meet your tax obligations.

(h)  Intellectual Property and Other Property.  The Company shall own and be free
to use all intellectual property created, invented or conceived of by you in the performance of
Services under this Agreement ( Intellectual Property ). You agree to assign to the Company all
such Intellectual Property, and to assist the Company in applying for patents and other protection
with respect to any such Intellectual Property. You agree to disclose all information material to
patentability of any invention within the Intellectual Property to the Company for purposes of
disclosure to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

You acknowledge that specially prepared or commissioned work shall be a  work for hire by an
independent contractor  as defined under the United States Copyright laws (17 U.S.C. Sections 101
et seq.). and in the event any work prepared by you as part of the Services is determined not to be
a work for hire by an independent contractor, you hereby irrevocably assign all copyrights in the
work (including the right to prepare derivative works) to the Company.

(i)  Confidentiality.  During the Consulting Period, you will have access to
confidential and proprietary information and you may receive or create ideas, know-how, trade
secrets, information, data, processes, substances and the like of the Company (the  Information ).
You agree that you not reveal or disclose the Information to any third party or use any Information
for any purpose other than the performance of the Services without first obtaining the written
consent of the Company.

The obligations of confidential treatment under this paragraph do not apply to any
information, which:

(A) 
       
     was known to you prior to receipt thereof from the Company other
than as a result your prior employment by the Company; 

(B) 
       
     was or becomes a matter of public information or publicly
available through no act or failure to act on your part; or 

(C) 
       
     is acquired by you from a third party entitled to
freely disclose such information to you. 

-2- 

2.  Cooperation . You agree to cooperate with the Company s reasonable requests during
the Consulting Period and thereafter with respect to all matters arising during or related to your
employment or the Services, including but not limited to all matters in connection with any
governmental investigation, litigation or regulatory or other proceeding which may have arisen or
which may arise following the signing of this Agreement.

3.  Assignment . Neither you nor the Company may make any assignment of this Agreement
or any interest herein, by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the
other. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon you and the Company,
together with your/its respective successors, executors, administrators, heirs and permitted
assigns.

4.  Miscellaneous . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between you and the
Company, and supersedes all prior communications, agreements and understandings, whether written or
oral, with respect to your employment, other than the Employee Proprietary Information and
Inventions and Dispute Resolution Agreement between you and Biogen
Idec dated March 8, 2004 and
your obligations with respect to the securities of the Company. This Agreement may not be modified
or amended, and no breach shall be deemed to be waived, unless agreed to in writing by you and an
authorized representative of the Company. This is a Massachusetts contract, and shall be governed
and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to
the conflict of laws principles thereof.

If the terms of this Agreement are acceptable to you, please sign, date and return it to
me. The enclosed counterpart of this letter, which you should also sign and date, is for your
records.

Sincerely, 
BIOGEN IDEC, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Craig Schneier

Craig Schneier  

Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and Communications  

-3- 

</EX-10.51>

<EX-10.52>
 8
 b68103biexv10w52.htm
 EX-10.52 EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE POLICY - EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT

exv10w52 

Exhibit 10.52 

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

As an Executive Vice President, you are entitled to severance benefits in the event your
employment is terminated by Biogen Idec other than For Cause or for reason of death or Disability
(as these terms are defined in the Biogen Idec 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan).

Benefits 

Your severance benefits are comprised of (i) a lump sum payment (as calculated below), (ii) upon
completion of the appropriate forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group
medical and dental insurance plans, to the same extent permitted by COBRA and to the same extent
such insurance is then provided to regular employees of Biogen Idec, including payment by you of a
portion of the insurance premiums (i.e., the  Insurance Benefit ) and (iii) the reasonable cost of
up to nine months of executive-level outplacement services from a recognized provider of such
services, at the expense of Biogen Idec (upon receipt of appropriate documentation).

The lump sum severance payment is calculated as follows:

9   (A x 2.5)  x B = lump sum payment 

where: A is the number of full years of service with Biogen Idec (but A x 2.5 may not exceed 12),and
B is the monthly equivalent of your target annual cash compensation at the time of your
termination (i.e., one-twelfth of the sum of your then annual base salary plus target
bonus).

The following are examples of how the lump sum payment and Insurance Benefit Period are determined:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after 10 months of employment, you will
receive a lump sum payment equal to nine months of your target annual cash compensation and
continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for nine months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that
date. COBRA continuation of medical and dental benefits is available, at your own expense, for
an additional nine months after this nine-month Insurance Benefit Period. 

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump sum
payment equal to 21 months  9 12  of your target annual cash compensation and continue to
participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 21 months, unless you become
eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date. 

If at any time within two years following a Corporate Transaction or Corporate Change in Control
(as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, other than For Cause or for reason
of death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or
you experience an Involuntary Employment Action (defined below) and as a result you terminate your
employment with Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, then, regardless of the length of
your service with Biogen Idec and the succeeding corporate entity, and in lieu of the formula set
forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 24 months of your target annual
cash compensation at the time of your termination or at the time of a Corporate Transaction or
Corporate Change in Control, whichever is higher. In addition, you will be entitled to continue
participating in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 24 months, unless you become
eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date. The term
 Involuntary Employment Action  shall have the definition set forth in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus
Equity Plan, provided, however, that the term  Corporate Transaction  used in that definition
shall be deemed to mean either a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control, as the case may be,
and provided also that prior to your termination of employment you have notified the Chief Legal
Counsel or the Head of Human Resources of Biogen Idec in writing of the basis for your Involuntary
Employment Action, you have given such notice within one year of the circumstances giving rise to
your Involuntary Employment Action and Biogen Idec does not cure such circumstances within 30 days
after the date of your notice.

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

Delivery of Benefits 

Payment and provision of all the benefits provided under this arrangement are conditioned on your
execution and delivery of all necessary forms and an irrevocable general release in favor of Biogen
Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen Idec, with respect to any and all
claims relating to your employment and the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec. If you
retire or voluntarily terminate your employment with Biogen Idec, or Biogen Idec terminates your
employment For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen
Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you do not provide the requisite general release, you will not
be eligible to receive the severance benefits described above.

If all other conditions of this arrangement are met, a lump sum payment (less applicable taxes and
other mandatory deductions as required by law) will be paid to you following the termination of
your employment, no later than the first to occur of: a) 90 days following your termination of
your employment with Biogen Idec and b) March 15 of the year following the calendar year in which
termination of employment occurs, unless you are a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (i.e.,  Section 409A ). (If all preconditions to
payment, including the delivery of an irrevocable general release, are not satisfied prior to the
earlier of these two dates, payment to you may be delayed and you may incur additional tax
liabilities under Section 409A.) If you are a  specified employee , to the extent required by
Section 409A, payment will not be made to you before the date which is six months after you
 separate from service  (or, if earlier, your date of death or Disability) unless the payment
qualifies as excepted welfare benefits under Section 409A, does not constitute a  deferral of
compensation  under Section 409A or is otherwise not subject to the requirements of Section 409A.

The Insurance Benefit will continue until the earlier of (i) the date you become eligible to
participate in the medical and dental insurance plan of another employer or (ii) the date that is
 9   (A x 2.5)  months, but not more than 21 months (or 24 months in the case of a Corporate
Transaction or Change in Control), following the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec
(the  Insurance Benefit Period ). You will have the right, at your own expense, to continue your
participation in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance plans at the expiration of the
Insurance Benefit Period, pursuant to the provisions of COBRA, but only for an 18-month period
that will be deemed to have commenced at the start of your severance.

General 

Biogen Idec shall administer and shall have the discretionary authority to adopt rules for the
management and operation of this arrangement, to interpret the provisions of the arrangement and to
construe the terms of the severance arrangement in its sole discretion. The decision of Biogen
Idec, or the duly authorized delegate, is final and conclusive for all purposes.

The severance arrangement may be amended, modified, suspended or terminated by Biogen Idec at any
time; provided that the severance arrangement may not be amended or terminated without your written
consent for a period of two years following a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control.

This arrangement is unfunded. This arrangement will benefit and bind Biogen Idec and its successors
and permitted assigns and you and your heirs, executors and legal representatives. You do not have
any right to transfer or assign your benefits under this arrangement.

This arrangement shall be construed, administered and enforced according to the laws of the State
of Delaware, except to the extent that such laws are preempted by the federal laws of the United
States of America.

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

Additional Summary Plan Description Information 

Description  

This document describes a Plan which is subject to the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). This document constitutes the Summary Plan Description
(SPD) and Plan Document. Benefit determinations are controlled exclusively by this SPD
and Plan Document. 

Name of Plan  

Severance Plan for U. S. Executive Vice Presidents 

Name and Address of
Employer  

Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 

Plan Identification  
Number  

Employer IRS Identification #: 04-3002117 
Plan #: 523 

Type of Welfare Plan  

Severance 

ERISA Plan Year Ends  

December 31 

Type of Administration  

The Plan is administered by the Plan Administrator 

Plan Administrator,
Name, Address, and
Telephone Number  

Biogen Idec Inc. is the Plan Administrator and named fiduciary of the Plan, with
authority to delegate its duties. 
Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 
(617) 679-3400 

Agent for Service of
Legal Process on the Plan  

Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 

Funding  

This Plan is unfunded 

Appeal Procedures  

You have 180 days from your effective date of termination to file an appeal.
Requests for appeals should be sent to the address specified in the claim denial. A
decision on review will be made not later than 45 days following receipt of the written
request for review. If the Plan Administrator determines that special circumstances
require an extension of time for a decision on review, the review period may be extended
by an additional 45 days (90 days in total). The Plan Administrator will notify you in
writing if an additional 45 day extension is needed. 

If an extension is necessary due to your failure to submit the information necessary to
decide the appeal, the notice of extension will specifically describe the required
information, and you will be afforded at least 45 days to provide the specified
information. If you deliver the requested information within the time specified, the 45
day extension of the appeal period will begin after you have provided that information.
If you fail to deliver the requested information within the time specified, the Plan
Administrator may decide your appeal without that information. 

You will have the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, or other
information in support of your appeal. You will have access to all relevant documents
as defined by applicable U.S. Department of Labor regulations. The review of the
adverse benefit determination will take into account all new information, whether or not
presented or available at the initial determination. No deference will be afforded to
the initial determination. 

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

The review will be conducted by the Plan Administrator and will be made by a person
different from the person who made the initial determination and such person will not be
the original decision maker s subordinate. 

A notice that your request on appeal is denied will contain the following information: 

The specific reason(s) for the determination; 

A reference to the specific Plan provision(s) on which the determination is based; 

A statement disclosing any internal rule, guidelines, protocol or similar
criterion relied on in making the adverse determination (or a statement that such
information will be provided free of charge upon request); 

A statement describing your right to bring a lawsuit under Section 502(a) of
ERISA if you disagree with the decision; 

The statement that you are entitled to receive upon request, and without charge,
reasonable access to or copies of all documents, records or other information relevant
to the determination; and 

The statement that  You or your plan may have other voluntary alternative
dispute resolution options, such as mediation. One way to find out what may be
available is to contact your local U.S. Department of Labor Office and your State
insurance regulatory agency . 

Notice of the determination may be provided in written or electronic form. Electronic
notices will be provided in a form that complies with any applicable legal requirements. 

Unless there are special circumstances, this administrative appeal process must be
completed before you begin any legal action regarding your claim. 

Your Rights Under  
ERISA  

As a participant in this Plan, you are entitled to certain rights and protections
under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). ERISA provides that
all Plan participants shall be entitled to: 

Receive Information About Your Plan and Benefits 

o

Examine, without charge, at the Plan Administrator s office and at other specified
locations, all documents governing the Plan, including a copy of the latest annual
report (Form 5500 Series), if any, filed by the Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor
and available at the Public Disclosure Room of the Employee Benefits Security
Administration. 

o

Obtain, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, copies of documents governing
the operation of the Plan, including copies of the latest annual report (Form 5500
Series), if any, and updated Summary Plan Description. 

o

The Plan Administrator may make a reasonable charge for the copies. 

o

Receive a summary of the Plan s annual financial report, if any. The Plan
Administrator is required by law to furnish each participant with a copy of this summary
annual report. 

Prudent Actions by Plan Fiduciaries 

o

In addition to creating rights for Plan participants, ERISA imposes duties upon the
people who are responsible for the operation of the employee benefit plan. The people
who operate your Plan, called  fiduciaries  of the Plan, have a duty to do so prudently
and in the interest of you and other Plan participants and beneficiaries. No one,
including your Employer or any other person, may fire you or otherwise discriminate
against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a benefit or exercising your rights
under ERISA. 

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

Enforce Your Rights 

o

If your claim for a benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a
right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision
without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules. 

o

Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights. For instance,
if you request a copy of Plan documents or the latest annual report from the Plan and do
not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a federal court. In such a case,
the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to
$110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because
of reasons beyond the control of the Plan Administrator. 

o

If you have a claim for benefits that is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you
may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen that Plan fiduciaries
misuse the Plan s money, or if you are discriminated against for asserting your rights,
you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a
federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If you
are successful, the court may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and
fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, if, for
example, it finds your claim is frivolous. 

Assistance with Your Questions 

o

If you have any questions about your Plan, you should contact the Plan Administrator.
If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, or if
you need assistance in obtaining documents from the Plan Administrator, you should
contact the nearest office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S.
Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical
Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of
Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain
certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the
publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration. 

Other Rights  

The Plan Administrator, as fiduciary for the Plan, is entitled to legal and
equitable relief to enforce its right to recover any overpayments to you under this
Plan. This right of recovery is enforceable but will not exceed the benefits paid you.
You agree that the Plan Administrator has a lien over such sources of income until any
overpayments have been recovered in full. 

Discretionary Acts  

The Plan Administrator has discretionary authority to interpret the Plan and to make
benefit determinations under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may act directly or
through its employees and agents or further delegate their authority through contracts,
letters or other documentation or procedures to other affiliates, persons or entities. 

Once you are deemed to have exhausted your appeal rights under the Plan, you have the
right to seek court review under Section 502(a) of ERISA of any benefit determinations
with which you disagree. The court will determine the standard of review it will apply
in evaluating those decisions. 

</EX-10.52>

<EX-10.53>
 9
 b68103biexv10w53.htm
 EX-10.53 EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE POLICY - INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT

exv10w53 

Exhibit 10.53 

Severance Plan for International Executive Vice Presidents 

As an Executive Vice President, you are entitled to severance benefits in the event your employment
is terminated by Biogen Idec other than For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these
terms are defined in the Biogen Idec 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan).

Benefits 

Your severance benefits are comprised of (i) a lump sum payment (as calculated below), (ii) upon
completion of the appropriate forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group
medical and dental insurance plans, to the same extent provided for under local statute and to the
same extent such insurance is then provided to regular employees of Biogen Idec, including payment
by you of a portion of the insurance premiums (i.e., the  Insurance Benefit ) and (iii) the
reasonable cost of up to nine months of executive-level outplacement services from a recognized
provider of such services, at the expense of Biogen Idec (upon receipt of appropriate
documentation).

The lump sum severance payment is calculated as follows:

9   (A x 2.5)  x B = lump sum payment 

where:

A is the number of full years of service with Biogen Idec (but A x 2.5 may not
exceed 12), and B is the monthly equivalent of your target annual cash compensation at the
time of your termination (i.e., one-twelfth of the sum of your then annual base salary plus
target annual bonus). 

The following are examples of how the lump sum payment and Insurance Benefit Period are determined:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after 10 months of employment, you will
receive a lump sum payment equal to nine months of your target annual cash compensation and, if
applicable, continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for nine
months, unless you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental
plans before that date. 

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump sum
payment equal to 21 months  9 12  of your target annual cash compensation and, if applicable,
continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 21 months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that
date. 

If at any time within two years following a Corporate Transaction or Corporate Change in Control
(as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, other than For Cause or for reason of
death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you
experience an Involuntary Employment Action (defined below) and as a result you terminate your
employment with Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, then, regardless of the length of
your service with Biogen Idec and the succeeding corporate entity, and in lieu of the formula set
forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 24 months of your target annual cash
compensation at the time of your termination or at the time of a Corporate Transaction or Corporate
Change in Control, whichever is higher. If applicable, you will additionally be entitled to
continue participating in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 24 months, unless you
become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date.
The term  Involuntary Employment Action  shall have the definition set
forth in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan, provided, however, that the term  Corporate
Transaction  used in that definition shall be deemed to mean either a Corporate Transaction or
Change in Control, as the case may be, and provided also that prior to your termination of
employment you have notified the Chief Legal Counsel or the Head of Human Resources of Biogen Idec
in writing of the basis for your Involuntary Employment Action, you have given such notice within
one year of the circumstances giving rise to your Involuntary Employment Action and Biogen Idec
does not cure such circumstances within 30 days after the date of your notice.

Severance Plan for International Executive Vice Presidents 

Delivery of Benefits 

Payment and provision of all the benefits provided under this arrangement are conditioned on your
execution and delivery of all necessary forms and an irrevocable general release in favor of Biogen
Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen Idec, with respect to any and all
claims relating to your employment and the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec. If you
retire or voluntarily terminate your employment with Biogen Idec, or Biogen Idec terminates your
employment For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen
Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you do not provide the requisite general release, you will not
be eligible to receive the severance benefits described above.

If all other conditions of this arrangement are met, a lump sum payment (less applicable taxes and
other mandatory deductions as required by law) will be paid to you following the termination of
your employment, no later than the first to occur of: a) 90 days following your termination of your
employment with Biogen Idec and b) March 15 of the year following the calendar year in which
termination of employment occurs.

To the extent that such benefit is applicable, the Insurance Benefit will continue until the
earlier of (i) the date you become eligible to participate in the medical and dental insurance plan
of another employer or (ii) the date that is  9   (A x 2.5)  months, but not more than 21 months
(or 24 months in the case of a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control), following the
termination of your employment with Biogen Idec (the  Insurance Benefit Period ).

General 

Biogen Idec shall administer and shall have the discretionary authority to adopt rules for the
management and operation of this arrangement, to interpret the provisions of the arrangement and to
construe the terms of the severance arrangement in its sole discretion. The decision of Biogen
Idec, or the duly authorized delegate, is final and conclusive for all purposes.

The severance arrangement may be amended, modified, suspended or terminated by Biogen Idec at any
time; provided that the severance arrangement may not be amended or terminated without your written
consent for a period of two years following a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control.

This arrangement is unfunded. This arrangement will benefit and bind Biogen Idec and its successors
and permitted assigns and you and your heirs, executors and legal representatives. You do not have
any right to transfer or assign your benefits under this arrangement.

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.54>
 10
 b68103biexv10w54.htm
 EX-10.54 EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE POLICY - SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT

exv10w54 

Exhibit 10.54 

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

As a Senior Vice President, you are entitled to severance benefits in the event your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec other than For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms
are defined in the Biogen Idec 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan).

Benefits 

Your severance benefits are comprised of (i) a lump sum payment (as calculated below), (ii) upon
completion of the appropriate forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group
medical and dental insurance plans, to the same extent permitted by COBRA and to the same extent
such insurance is then provided to regular employees of Biogen Idec, including payment by you of a
portion of the insurance premiums (i.e., the  Insurance Benefit ) and (iii) the reasonable cost of
up to nine months of executive-level outplacement services from a recognized provider of such
services, at the expense of Biogen Idec (upon receipt of appropriate documentation).

The lump sum severance payment is calculated as follows:

9   (A x 2)  x B = lump sum payment 

where:

A is the number of full years of service with Biogen Idec (but A x 2 may not exceed 9),
and B is the monthly equivalent of your target annual cash compensation at the time of your
termination (i.e., one-twelfth of the sum of your then annual base salary plus target annual
bonus). 

The following are examples of how the lump sum payment and Insurance Benefit Period are determined:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after 10 months of employment, you will
receive a lump sum payment equal to nine months of your target annual cash compensation and
continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for nine months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that
date. COBRA continuation of medical and dental benefits is available, at your own expense, for
an additional nine months after this nine-month Insurance Benefit Period.  

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump sum
payment equal to 18 months  9 9  of your target annual cash compensation and continue to
participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 18 months, unless you become
eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date. 

If at any time within two years following a Corporate Transaction or Corporate Change in Control
(as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, other than For Cause or for reason of
death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you
experience an Involuntary Employment Action (defined below) and as a result you terminate your
employment with Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, then, regardless of the length of
your service with Biogen Idec and the succeeding corporate entity, and in lieu of the formula set
forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 18 months of your target annual cash
compensation at the time of your termination or at the time of a Corporate Transaction or Corporate
Change in Control, whichever is higher. In addition, you will be entitled to continue participating
in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 18 months, unless you become eligible to
participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date. The term  Involuntary
Employment Action  shall have the definition set forth in Biogen
Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan, provided, however, that the term  Corporate Transaction  used in
that definition shall be deemed to mean either a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control, as the
case may be, and provided also that prior to your termination of employment you have notified the
Chief Legal Counsel or the Head of Human Resources of Biogen Idec in writing of the basis for your
Involuntary Employment Action, you have given such notice within one year of the circumstances
giving rise to your Involuntary Employment Action and Biogen Idec does not cure such circumstances
within 30 days after the date of your notice.

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

Delivery of Benefits 

Payment and provision of all the benefits provided under this arrangement are conditioned on your
execution and delivery of all necessary forms and an irrevocable general release in favor of Biogen
Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen Idec, with respect to any and all
claims relating to your employment and the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec. If you
retire or voluntarily terminate your employment with Biogen Idec, or Biogen Idec terminates your
employment For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen
Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you do not provide the requisite general release, you will not
be eligible to receive the severance benefits described above.

If all other conditions of this arrangement are met, a lump sum payment (less applicable taxes and
other mandatory deductions as required by law) will be paid to you following the termination of
your employment, no later than the first to occur of: a) 90 days following your termination of your
employment with Biogen Idec and b) March 15 of the year following the calendar year in which
termination of employment occurs, unless you are a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (i.e.,  Section 409A ). (If all preconditions to
payment, including the delivery of an irrevocable general release, are not satisfied prior to the
earlier of these two dates, payment to you may be delayed and you may incur additional tax
liabilities under Section 409A.) If you are a  specified employee , to the extent required by
Section 409A, payment will not be made to you before the date which is six months after you
 separate from service  (or, if earlier, your date of death or Disability) unless the payment
qualifies as excepted welfare benefits under Section 409A, does not constitute a  deferral of
compensation  under Section 409A or is otherwise not subject to the requirements of Section 409A.

The Insurance Benefit will continue until the earlier of (i) the date you become eligible to
participate in the medical and dental insurance plan of another employer or (ii) the date that is
 9   (A x 2)  months, but not more than 18 months (or 18 months in the case of a Corporate
Transaction or Change in Control), following the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec
(the  Insurance Benefit Period ). You will have the right, at your own expense, to continue your
participation in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance plans at the expiration of the
Insurance Benefit Period, pursuant to the provisions of COBRA, but only for an 18-month period that
will be deemed to have commenced at the start of your severance.

General 

Biogen Idec shall administer and shall have the discretionary authority to adopt rules for the
management and operation of this arrangement, to interpret the provisions of the arrangement and to
construe the terms of the severance arrangement in its sole discretion. The decision of Biogen
Idec, or the duly authorized delegate, is final and conclusive for all purposes.

The severance arrangement may be amended, modified, suspended or terminated by Biogen Idec at any
time; provided that the severance arrangement may not be amended or terminated without your written
consent for a period of two years following a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control.

This arrangement is unfunded. This arrangement will benefit and bind Biogen Idec and its successors
and permitted assigns and you and your heirs, executors and legal representatives. You do not have
any right to transfer or assign your benefits under this arrangement.

This arrangement shall be construed, administered and enforced according to the laws of the State
of Delaware, except to the extent that such laws are preempted by the federal laws of the United
States of America.

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

Additional Summary Plan Description Information 

Description  

This document describes a Plan which is subject to the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). This document constitutes the Summary Plan Description
(SPD) and Plan Document. Benefit determinations are controlled exclusively by this SPD
and Plan Document. 

Name of Plan  

Severance Plan for U. S. Senior Vice Presidents 

Name and Address of
Employer  

Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 

Plan Identification  
Number  

Employer IRS Identification #: 04-3002117 
Plan #: 522 

Type of Welfare Plan  

Severance 

ERISA Plan Year Ends  

December 31 

Type of Administration  

The Plan is administered by the Plan Administrator 

Plan Administrator,
Name, Address, and
Telephone Number  

Biogen Idec Inc. is the Plan Administrator and named fiduciary of the Plan, with
authority to delegate its duties. 
Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 
(617) 679-3400 

Agent for Service of
Legal Process on the Plan  

Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 

Funding  

This Plan is unfunded 

Appeal Procedures  

You have 180 days from your effective date of termination to file an appeal.
Requests for appeals should be sent to the address specified in the claim denial. A
decision on review will be made not later than 45 days following receipt of the written
request for review. If the Plan Administrator determines that special circumstances
require an extension of time for a decision on review, the review period may be extended
by an additional 45 days (90 days in total). The Plan Administrator will notify you in
writing if an additional 45 day extension is needed. 

If an extension is necessary due to your failure to submit the information necessary to
decide the appeal, the notice of extension will specifically describe the required
information, and you will be afforded at least 45 days to provide the specified
information. If you deliver the requested information within the time specified, the 45
day extension of the appeal period will begin after you have provided that information.
If you fail to deliver the requested information within the time specified, the Plan
Administrator may decide your appeal without that information. 

You will have the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, or other
information in support of your appeal. You will have access to all relevant documents
as defined by applicable U.S. Department of Labor regulations. The review of the
adverse benefit determination will take into account all new 

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

information, whether or not
presented or available at the initial determination. No deference will be afforded to
the initial determination. 

The review will be conducted by the Plan Administrator and will be made by a person
different from the person who made the initial determination and such person will not be
the original decision maker s subordinate. 

A notice that your request on appeal is denied will contain the following information: 

The specific reason(s) for the determination; 

A reference to the specific Plan provision(s) on which the determination is based; 

A statement disclosing any internal rule, guidelines, protocol or similar
criterion relied on in making the adverse determination (or a statement that such
information will be provided free of charge upon request); 

A statement describing your right to bring a lawsuit under Section 502(a) of
ERISA if you disagree with the decision; 

The statement that you are entitled to receive upon request, and without charge,
reasonable access to or copies of all documents, records or other information relevant
to the determination; and 

The statement that  You or your plan may have other voluntary alternative
dispute resolution options, such as mediation. One way to find out what may be
available is to contact your local U.S. Department of Labor Office and your State
insurance regulatory agency . 

Notice of the determination may be provided in written or electronic form. Electronic
notices will be provided in a form that complies with any applicable legal requirements. 

Unless there are special circumstances, this administrative appeal process must be
completed before you begin any legal action regarding your claim. 

Your Rights Under  
ERISA  

As a participant in this Plan, you are entitled to certain rights and protections
under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). ERISA provides that
all Plan participants shall be entitled to: 

Receive Information About Your Plan and Benefits 

o

Examine, without charge, at the Plan Administrator s office and at other specified
locations, all documents governing the Plan, including a copy of the latest annual
report (Form 5500 Series), if any, filed by the Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor
and available at the Public Disclosure Room of the Employee Benefits Security
Administration. 

o

Obtain, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, copies of documents governing
the operation of the Plan, including copies of the latest annual report (Form 5500
Series), if any, and updated Summary Plan Description. 

o

The Plan Administrator may make a reasonable charge for the copies. 

o

Receive a summary of the Plan s annual financial report, if any. The Plan
Administrator is required by law to furnish each participant with a copy of this summary
annual report. 

Prudent Actions by Plan Fiduciaries 

o

In addition to creating rights for Plan participants, ERISA imposes duties upon the
people who are responsible for the operation of the employee benefit plan. The people
who operate your Plan, called  fiduciaries  of the Plan, have a duty to do so prudently
and in the interest of you and other Plan participants and beneficiaries. No one,
including your Employer or any other person, may fire you or otherwise discriminate
against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a benefit or exercising your rights
under ERISA. 

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

Enforce Your Rights 

o

If your claim for a benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a
right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision
without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules. 

o

Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights. For instance,
if you request a copy of Plan documents or the latest annual report from the Plan and do
not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a federal court. In such a case,
the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to
$110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because
of reasons beyond the control of the Plan Administrator. 

o

If you have a claim for benefits that is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you
may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen that Plan fiduciaries
misuse the Plan s money, or if you are discriminated against for asserting your rights,
you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a
federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If you
are successful, the court may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and
fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, if, for
example, it finds your claim is frivolous. 

Assistance with Your Questions 

o

If you have any questions about your Plan, you should contact the Plan Administrator.
If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, or if
you need assistance in obtaining documents from the Plan Administrator, you should
contact the nearest office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S.
Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical
Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of
Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain
certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the
publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration. 

Other Rights  

The Plan Administrator, as fiduciary for the Plan, is entitled to legal and
equitable relief to enforce its right to recover any overpayments to you under this
Plan. This right of recovery is enforceable but will not exceed the benefits paid you.
You agree that the Plan Administrator has a lien over such sources of income until any
overpayments have been recovered in full. 

Discretionary Acts  

The Plan Administrator has discretionary authority to interpret the Plan and to make
benefit determinations under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may act directly or
through its employees and agents or further delegate their authority through contracts,
letters or other documentation or procedures to other affiliates, persons or entities. 

Discretionary Acts  

Once you are deemed to have exhausted your appeal rights under the Plan, you have the
right to seek court review under Section 502(a) of ERISA of any benefit determinations
with which you disagree. The court will determine the standard of review it will apply
in evaluating those decisions. 

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.55>
 11
 b68103biexv10w55.htm
 EX-10.55 SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN AS AMENDED AND RESTATED

exv10w55 

Exhibit 10.55 

BIOGEN IDEC INC. 

SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN 

(Plan Provisions as in Effect on January 1, 2008)

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

ARTICLE 1 
INTRODUCTION 

1.1
Purpose and Effective Date . The purpose of this plan is to provide certain key executives and
managers of Biogen Idec (or its subsidiaries) with additional tax-deferred savings opportunities
supplementing those available under the Savings Plan. This plan allows certain eligible
participants to make voluntary deferrals from base salary or bonus if elected by a participant. In
addition, certain participants whose compensation exceeds the Code Section 401(a)(17) limit
applicable to the Savings Plan will receive an employer 401(k) restoration credit in accordance
with Section 4.1, and certain participants received transition credits in accordance with Section
4.3.

This plan also contains certain account balances or benefits previously maintained under the
amended and restated IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, the Biogen, Inc.
Voluntary Executive Supplemental Savings Plan, and the Biogen, Inc. Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan.

This amended and restated plan document is effective as of January 1, 2005, except as
otherwise specified. Certain historical information about the plan and any amendments thereto is
set forth in Appendix A.

ARTICLE 2 
DEFINITIONS 

This section contains definitions of certain terms used in the plan. Where the context so
requires, the masculine includes the feminine, the singular includes the plural, and the
plural includes the singular.

2.1 401(k) restoration  means that component of the plan under which an eligible participant s
account will receive an employer 401(k) restoration credit under Section 4.1 with respect to applicable
compensation in excess of the limit imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code.

2.2 Applicable compensation  shall have the same meaning as in the Savings Plan except that
applicable compensation under this plan shall also include voluntary deferrals made under Section 4.2 in
addition to other salary reductions included in applicable compensation under the Savings Plan.

2.3 Base salary  means the base salary established for any participant by his employer as in effect
from time to time; the entire amount of a participant s base salary will be taken into account in accordance
with the terms of this plan without regard to any dollar limitation on applicable compensation that may be imposed under
the Savings Plan; base salary includes all components of a participant s applicable compensation other than
bonus.

2.4 Biogen Idec  means Biogen Idec Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor to it or to all or
the major portion of its assets or business which assumes the obligations of Biogen Idec Inc. under this
plan.

2.5 Biogen SERP  means the Biogen, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as in effect
immediately prior to January 1, 2004 (or other date of transfer referred to in Section 3.l(c)).

2.6 Board  means the Board of Directors of Biogen Idec.

2.7 Bonus  means the amount of compensation paid to a participant in addition to his base salary and
designated as such participant s bonus by his employer; the entire amount of any such bonus will be taken into
account in accordance with the terms of this plan without regard to any dollar limitation on applicable
compensation that may be imposed under the Savings Plan.

2.8 Change in Control 

(a) For purposes of Section 5.3(f) and Section 7.4, a change in control means a
 Corporate Change in Control  or a  Corporate Transaction  as each is defined in the Biogen Idec
2005 Omnibus Equity Plan.

1 

(b) For purposes of Section 4.4(b) and Section 6.2, a change in control means (i)
the acquisition by a person or group of stock of Biogen Idec that, together with stock
previously held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50 percent of the total fair
market value or total voting power of the stock of Biogen Idec; (ii) a change in the
effective control of Biogen Idec resulting from either the acquisition by any person or
group during a 12-month period of stock of Biogen Idec possessing 30 percent or more of the
total voting power of Biogen Idec stock; or the replacement of a majority of the members of
the Board during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election was not
endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board in office immediately before the start of
such 12-month period; or (iii) the acquisition by any person or group (during any 12-month
period) of assets having a gross fair market value equal to or greater than 40 percent of
the total gross fair market value of all assets of Biogen Idec. This subsection (b) and
terms used herein will be interpreted in accordance with the regulations under Code Section
409A relating to a change in the ownership or effective control of a corporation or a change
in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation.

This subsection 2.8(b) is effective as of the date of execution of this amended and
restated plan document.

2.9 Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor statute enacted in
its place. Reference to any provision of the Code includes reference to any successor provision thereto.

2.10 Committee  means the committee designated by the Board to administer this Plan.

2.11 Compensation Committee  means the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the
Board (or any successor committee, however named, carrying out its functions).

2.12 Disability  means  disability  as defined under the long-term disability program of Biogen Idec
or another employer covering a participant, or, if no such program is in effect with respect to such
participant, then  disability  means  total and permanent disability  as defined in Code Section 22(e)(3).

2.13 Employee  means a person who is classified as a regular, common law employee of Biogen Idec (or
other employer) under the regular personnel classifications and practices of his employer. An individual
will not be considered an employee for purposes of this plan if the individual is classified as a consultant or
contractor under Biogen Idec s (or other employer s) regular personnel classifications and practices or he is a
party to an agreement to provide services to Biogen Idec (or other employer) without participating in this plan,
notwithstanding that such individual may be treated as a common law employee for payroll tax or other legal purposes.

2.14 Employer  means Biogen Idec and each direct or indirect subsidiary or other affiliate of Biogen
Idec that employs persons who are or may be eligible to participate in this plan.

2.15 ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor
statute enacted in its place. Reference to any provision of ERISA includes reference to any successor provision
thereto.

2.16 Excess applicable compensation  means, for any plan year, the amount of a participant s applicable
compensation in excess of the limitation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code applicable to such
year and which therefore could not be considered under the Savings Plan.

2.17 Participant  means an employee of Biogen Idec (or other employer) who is eligible to
participate in this plan in accordance with Section 3.1 and who has an account described in Section 5.1 or for whom an
amount has been transferred to this plan from a prior plan or from the Biogen SERP.

2.18 Plan  means the Biogen Idec Inc. Supplemental Savings Plan, as set forth in this plan
instrument, and as it may be amended from time to time.

2.19 Plan year  means the 12-month periods commencing on January 1, 2005 and on each subsequent
January 1 while the plan remains in effect.

2 

2.20 Prior plan  means the amended and restated IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation Deferred
Compensation Plan and the Biogen, Inc. Voluntary Executive Supplemental Savings Plan, each as in effect immediately prior to
January 1, 2004 (or other date of transfer referred to in Section 3.1(c)).

2.21 Savings Plan  means the Biogen Idec 401(k) Savings Plan, as amended from time to time. Any term
defined in the Savings Plan will have the same meaning when used in this plan unless otherwise
defined herein.

2.22 Service  means the sum of a participant s employment (a) with Biogen Idec since November 12,
2003 and (b) with either Biogen, Inc. or IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation prior to November 12, 2003
(including in each case service with any subsidiary or other affiliate of such entity).

2.23 Transition credit  means an amount credited by Biogen Idec to a participant s account under
this plan that is equal to (a) the additional amount that would be contributed on behalf of the participant under
the Savings Plan, as determined under Appendix C of the Savings Plan but without regard to the nondiscrimination limits
or the Code Section 401(a)(17) or Code Section 415 limits that restrict additions to the participant s
account(s) under the Savings Plan, reduced by (b) the amount of the actual additional contribution on the participant s behalf
to the Savings Plan in accordance with Appendix C thereof.

2.24 Voluntary deferred compensation  means that component of the plan which permits an eligible
participant to defer from 1% to 80% of his base salary and from 1% to 100% of his bonus in accordance with Section 4.2.

2.25 Years of service  means full years of completed continuous service as a regular employee, determined in
accordance with the personnel policies and practices of a participant s employer.

ARTICLE 3 
PARTICIPATION 

3.1 Eligibility and Participation. 

(a)  Voluntary Deferred Compensation.  An employee (i) who has the job title of Senior
Director or Vice President or more senior officer of Biogen Idec (or another employer) or (ii) who is
designated as eligible by the Compensation Committee will be eligible to be a participant in the voluntary deferred
compensation component of the plan. Participation in this component of the plan is voluntary and no eligible employee
will be required to participate.

(b)  Transition Credit.  An employee (i) whose  additional employer contribution  as
determined under Appendix C of the Savings Plan was limited because of limits on compensation, limits on annual
additions or nondiscrimination requirements applicable to qualified plans under the Code and (ii) who was
designated by the committee (either individually or by class) is eligible to be a participant in the transition
contribution component of this plan (see Section 4.3).

(c)  Prior Plans and Biogen SERP.  Each employee who is not eligible to be a participant
under subsection (a) or (b) above or (d) below, or who is eligible but declines to participate under
subsection (a) above, but who was a prior plan participant and/or Biogen SERP participant and whose prior plan and/or
Biogen SERP account balance (or supplemental pension formula benefit under Section 4.1 of the Biogen SERP, if
applicable) was transferred to this plan effective as of January 1, 2004 (or such later date as the committee
specified) is a participant solely with respect to such transferred prior plan and/or Biogen SERP account balance (or
supplemental pension formula benefit, if applicable). This will not include a person who is a vested participant
under the Biogen SERP but not an employee (i.e., a person who terminated employment from Biogen, Inc. or from Biogen
Idec on or before the date of transfer referred to in the preceding sentence); such a person s benefits under
the Biogen SERP are governed by the provisions of Section 5.l(f) and Appendix B.

(d)  401(k) Restoration.  An employee who satisfies the requirements of Section 4.1(a)
below will be eligible to be a participant with respect to the employer 401(k) restoration component of the
plan.

3 

(e)  Time of Eligibility and Participation.  An employee who is newly hired or promoted
into a position described in subsection (a)(i) above, or who is newly designated as eligible under
subsection (a)(ii) above, will be deemed to be eligible on the date the committee (or its delegatee) sends him an
enrollment form (see Section 4.4).

An eligible employee under subsection (a) above will become a participant hereunder when he
makes a voluntary deferral under this plan. An eligible employee under subsection (b), (c) or (d)
above will become a participant hereunder when Biogen Idec (or other employer) credits an amount to
his account(s) hereunder.

(f)  Top Hat Plan.  Notwithstanding the preceding subsections (or any other provisions
of the plan), no employee will be eligible to participate in any component of this plan at any time when he or
she is not a member of a select group of management or highly compensated employees (within the meaning of ERISA
Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(l)), as determined by the committee.

3.2 End of Participation.  A participant s participation in this plan (or a particular
component of this plan) will end upon the termination of his service as an employee of Biogen Idec
(or other employer) because of death or any other reason, or upon his transfer to or
reclassification as an employee who is not eligible to participate in the plan (or in such
component).

In addition, in the case of a participant who was designated as eligible for a component of
the plan by the Compensation Committee, his participation in such component will end upon the
Compensation Committee s specifying that he is no longer eligible to participate. In such event,
his participation will end effective as of the later of the date of the Compensation Committee s
action or the date specified by the Compensation Committee; provided that no such action will
retroactively deprive a participant of any amount credited to his account or any amount he was
entitled to under this plan determined as of the effective date of his termination of
participation.

Upon the termination of a participant s participation in this plan (or in a particular
component of this plan) in accordance with this section, there will be no additional voluntary
deferrals or employer credits to such participant s account(s) (or the account(s) related to such
component), except to the extent required by Code Section 409A or the regulations or any rulings
thereunder with respect to the balance of the plan year in which such termination of participation
occurred. However, the participant will be entitled to receive any vested amounts in his account(s)
in accordance with this plan.

ARTICLE 4 
VOLUNTARY DEFERRALS BY PARTICIPANTS; EMPLOYER CREDITS 

4.1 401(k) Restoration. 

(a)  Eligibility.  Each employee who has excess applicable compensation during a plan
year will receive employer credits under this section, but only if the individual is still an employee
as of the end of the plan year (or other period for example, quarterly) for which an amount is to be credited under
subsection (c) below.

(b)  Amount
of Employer 401(k) Restoration Credits.  For each plan year (or a shorter
period of time specified by the committee), each employer will credit a 401(k) restoration amount to the
account of each eligible participant (under subsection (a) above) employed by such employer who has excess applicable
compensation during such plan year (or such shorter period of time). The employer s credits on behalf of
such a participant will be equal to six percent of his excess applicable compensation during the plan year (or such
shorter period of time).

(c)  Time for Making Employer 401(k) Restoration Credits.  Employer credit amounts under
subsection (b) will be credited to participants  accounts at such time(s) as the committee
determines after the end of each plan year (or such shorter periods of time for example, quarterly specified by the
committee).

4.2 Voluntary Deferrals.  Each eligible employee (under Section 3.1(a)) may make voluntary
deferrals under the plan from his base salary in any whole percentage of his base salary from a minimum of 1% to a
maximum of 80% by electing to reduce his base salary by such amount. In addition, each such eligible employee
may make

4 

voluntary deferrals under the plan from his bonus in any whole percentage of his bonus from a
minimum of 1% to a maximum of 100% by electing to reduce his bonus by such amount. Elections will
be in accordance with the requirements of Section 4.4(a).

Notwithstanding the first sentence of the preceding paragraph, the committee (or its designee)
may reduce the maximum base salary deferral an eligible employee may elect from 80% to such smaller
percentage as the committee (or its designee) deems advisable, in the case of any participant or
group of participants, so that all employee contributions (by salary reduction or otherwise) for
benefit plan coverages applicable to such participant(s), withholding tax obligations applicable to
such participant(s), and any other elective or non-elective application of the base salary of such
participant(s) (such as, by way of illustration and not by way of limitation, charitable
deductions) will be accommodated. Any such reduction applicable to a participant for a plan year
will be made before the start of such plan year.

4.3 Transition Credit.  Each eligible employee (under Section 3.1(b)) will receive a transition
credit hereunder. The amount of such credit will be the amount the participant would have received under
the terms and conditions of Appendix C of the Savings Plan if
Code Section  401(a) nondiscrimination requirements
and/or Code Section 401(a)(17) or 415 limits did not apply, reduced by any amount actually contributed to the
Savings Plan on his behalf under such Appendix C. Any such transition credit amount hereunder will be credited at a time
determined by the committee.

4.4 Election Procedures. 

(a)  Voluntary Deferrals.  An eligible employee under Section 3.1(a) who wishes to
reduce his base salary and/or bonus to be earned during a particular plan year in order to make voluntary
deferrals under Section 4.2 must complete an enrollment form specifying the amount of his voluntary deferrals (with
separate percentages for his base salary and bonus if desired), agreeing to reduce his base salary and/or bonus by the
amount(s) he specifies, and providing such other information as the committee may require.

A participant s enrollment form electing voluntary deferrals for any plan year must be filed
with the committee by such deadline as the committee specifies, but in any event before the start
of such plan year. A participant may change the amount of his voluntary deferrals with respect to
any subsequent plan year by filing a new enrollment form before the start of such subsequent plan
year, and the change will become effective as of the first day of such subsequent plan year. Once a
participant has elected to defer base salary and/or bonus, his enrollment form will remain in
effect for future plan years unless the participant changes or terminates his prior elections by
filing a new enrollment form in accordance with the preceding sentence.

An individual who first becomes eligible under Section 3.1(a) during a plan year may make an
initial election by filing an enrollment form with the committee not later than 30 days after the
committee (or its delegatee) sends him an enrollment form. However, such a newly eligible employee
may elect to defer only base salary and/or that portion of bonus to be earned after the date of
filing his completed enrollment form. (An individual is considered first eligible only if either:
(i) he had not during the preceding 24-month period been eligible to make voluntary deferrals under
this plan or under another non-qualified deferred compensation plan maintained by Biogen Idec (or
another employer or other subsidiary or affiliate of Biogen Idec); or (ii) he had received a
complete distribution of his entire interest under the plan and subsequently, through rehire,
promotion, transfer or designation, again becomes eligible to participate in this plan under
Section 3.1.)

After a plan year has begun, a participant may not change the amount of voluntary deferrals
(if any) he had elected for such plan year. However, if during a plan year a participant either (i)
has an unforeseeable emergency (as defined in Section 6.1) and receives a distribution under

Section 6.1 or (ii) has a financial hardship (as defined in the Savings Plan) and receives a
financial hardship withdrawal from the Savings Plan, the participant s deferral election for the
balance of that year will automatically be cancelled.

(b)  Form and Time of Payment. 

(i)  Initial Election.  Each participant must specify the form of payment (lump sum
or installments in accordance with Section 6.4(a),  6.5(a) and/or Section 6.6(a) below, as
applicable) of his accounts hereunder in the event of the participant s death or other
termination of employment (including as

5 

a result of disability). The time and form of payments under the plan are governed by the
provisions of Article 6 and participant elections must conform to the requirements of such
provisions.

In addition, effective as of the date of execution of this amended and restated plan document,
a participant may elect payment of his accounts under Section 6.2 in the event of a change in
control (as defined in Section 2.8(b)).

In addition, a participant who is eligible under Section 3.1(a) to elect voluntary deferrals
may (but is not required to) specify one or more in-service distributions to the participant in
accordance with Section 6.3 if desired by the participant. A participant who declines to elect such
an in-service distribution is deemed to have elected payment only after death (Section 6.4) or
termination of employment (Section 6.5) or, if applicable, a change in control (Section 6.2); such
a participant may not thereafter make a change of election under subsection (ii) with respect to an
in-service distribution from the plan.

A participant s initial election of a time and form of payment hereunder must be made by
whichever of the following dates applies to the participant (or the earlier of such dates, if both
apply to a particular participant): (A) the deadline for filing the participant s initial
enrollment form under subsection (a) above; or (B) January 30 of the year following the year for
which an amount is first credited to the participant under Section 3.1(c), Section 4.1 or Section
4.3 (provided that this clause (B) will not apply to a participant if he was previously eligible
for employer credits or contributions (as opposed to voluntary deferrals) under this plan or under
any other account balance non-qualified deferred compensation plan maintained by Biogen Idec (or
another employer or other subsidiary or affiliate of Biogen Idec).

(ii)  Change of Election.  Notwithstanding subsection (i) above, the following changes
of election will be permitted. If such a subsequent election becomes effective as provided below,
then the participant s account(s) will be payable at the time and in the form specified in his
subsequent election.

(A) 
       
      In-Service Distributions.  In the case of an eligible participant who
elected an in-service distribution, at any time that is at least one year prior to the date for payment
originally elected by the participant, if the participant is still an employee of Biogen Idec
(or another employer or other subsidiary or affiliate) at such time, the participant
may make one subsequent election to defer the time when any previously elected in-service
distribution under Section 6.3 from his account(s) would otherwise be payable (or
installment payments would otherwise begin) to a subsequent date specified by him,
and/or may elect another form of payment or a different number of installments with
respect to the in-service distribution of his account(s), subject in all cases to
the requirements of this section and to the requirements of Section 6.3. 

(B) 
       
      Death or Termination of Employment.  A participant who is still an
employee of Biogen Idec (or another employer or other subsidiary or affiliate) may make one subsequent
election to change the form of payment hereunder that will be used following his
death or other termination of employment. Such an election must comply with the applicable
requirements of Sections 6.4(a), 6.5(a) and 6.6(a) (as applicable). 

(C) 
       
      Effectiveness of Subsequent Election.  A participant s subsequent
election under this subsection (ii) will become effective only if the following requirements are
satisfied: (1) the subsequent election does not take effect until one year after the date of the
subsequent election and the participant remains an employee of Biogen Idec (or another
employer or other subsidiary or affiliate) during such one year period, (2) the election
extends the date for payment, or the start date for installment payments, by at least five years,
and (3) in the case of a subsequent election to defer a previously elected in-service
distribution (under subsection (A) above), the subsequent election is made at least 12 months
before the date previously elected for such in-service distribution. 

No election under this subsection (ii) may operate to accelerate any payment or
distribution hereunder or violate any requirement of Code Section 409A or the regulations and
rulings thereunder.

6 

A participant may make only one subsequent election under subsection (ii) (A) and only
one subsequent election under subsection (ii)(B). Such subsequent election(s) may be made at
the same or at different times. Also, the committee may permit additional election
opportunities (in accordance with the transition or other rules under the regulations or
other Internal Revenue Service guidance under Code Section 409A or in such other
circumstances as the committee deems appropriate). Any such additional subsequent elections
under subsection (ii) must satisfy all the requirements of this section and any other
applicable requirements under the plan or, alternatively, must satisfy such requirements as
the committee may impose in connection with a new election under a Code Section 409A
transition or other rule.

ARTICLE 5 
PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS 

5.1   Participant Accounts. 

(a)  Employer 401(k) Restoration Accounts.  Employer credits on a participant s behalf
under Section 4.1 will be credited to an account in the name of such participant. Such account will
be called his employer 401(k) restoration account.

(b)  Voluntary Deferred Compensation Accounts.  Voluntary deferrals by a participant
under Section 4.2 will be credited to an account in the name of such participant. Such account will be called his
voluntary deferred compensation account.

(c)  Transition Accounts.  Transition credits on a participant s behalf under Section
4.3 will be credited to an account in the name of such participant. Such account will be called his transition
account.

(d)  Prior Plan Account.  Account balances as of December 31, 2003 (or such later date
as the committee specified) for a participant in a prior plan were transferred to this plan from such
prior plan and the transferred amount was credited to an account in the name of such participant. Such account is
called his prior plan account.

(e)  Biogen
SERP Account.  Amounts transferred to this plan from the Biogen SERP on
behalf of a participant were credited to an account in the name of such participant. Such account is
called his Biogen SERP account. The amount so transferred on behalf of a participant in the excess benefit formulas
in Section 4.2 of the Biogen SERP was the amount credited to such participant s Biogen SERP cash balance account as
of December 31, 2003 (or such later date of transfer as the committee specified). The amount so transferred on
behalf of a participant in the supplemental pension formula in Section 4.1 of the SERP was the present value as of
December 31, 2003 (or such later date of transfer as the committee specified) of the participant s SERP accrued
supplemental pension as of such date (calculated in accordance with the terms of the SERP in effect on such date).

(f)  Certain Special Provisions.  Participants  prior plan accounts and Biogen SERP
accounts will be governed by the applicable provisions of this plan as in effect from time to time.

For persons who were participants in the Biogen SERP before the transfer date referred to in
subsection (e) above and are entitled to a vested SERP benefit thereunder, but who are not active
participants under this plan and therefore do not have an account hereunder, the amount transferred
to this plan in respect of their Biogen SERP benefit will be governed by Appendix B hereto, as in
effect from time to time.

(g)  409A.  For purposes of applying Code Section 409A, as provided in the regulations
thereunder, a participant s voluntary deferred compensation account is disaggregated from his or her other
accounts hereunder.

5.2 Participant s Account Value. 

(a)  Deemed Investment Results.  A participant s accounts will be credited with
deemed investment results as if the amounts credited to his accounts were invested in one or more
designated investment funds (as described below) and all dividends and distributions on shares or
other interests of a particular investment fund were

7 

reinvested in such fund. The investment funds available for this purpose will be those from time to
time available as investment options for participants  accounts under the Savings Plan, plus the
investment funds specified in subsections (b) and (c) below (in the case of eligible participants).
Investment funds hereunder are for the sole purpose of providing the basis for crediting deemed
investment results to participants  accounts, and do not represent any actual funds or assets held
hereunder for the benefit of participants.

Each participant will indicate with his initial enrollment form (or another form specified by
the committee) the investment fund or funds (and the proportion in each fund when the participant
designates more than one) he wishes to designate for this purpose. Thereafter, a participant may
change his designation with respect to either the deemed investment of future credits to his
account(s) hereunder or the deemed transfer of amounts from a previously designated investment fund
to another fund. The committee shall establish the frequency with which such a change may be made,
the method of making such a change, and the effective date of such a change, and shall prescribe
such other rules and procedures as it deems appropriate. Such designation will remain in effect
until subsequently changed by the participant in accordance with this paragraph. Following a
participant s death and before the payment of any amount due to the participant s beneficiary
hereunder has been completed, the beneficiary will exercise the participant s designation powers
under this section.

Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the committee may establish one or more default
investment funds that will be used to determine deemed investment results in the case of any
participant or group of participants who have not made a. designation under the preceding
paragraph. Such default investment fund(s) will be used to determine deemed investment results
applicable to the account of such participant or participants until any such participant makes a
designation of investment fund(s) in accordance with the plan.

Deemed investment results under this subsection will be credited to a participant s accounts
effective as of the last day of each plan year (and as of such other valuation dates during a plan
year as the committee may establish).

The value of a participant s accounts at any point in time will be his voluntary deferrals,
employer 401(k) restoration credits, transition credits on his behalf, and prior plan and/or Biogen
SERP transfer amounts, increased or decreased by deemed investment results as provided in this
section through the most recent valuation date, and reduced by any distributions from the
participant s accounts.

(b)  Fixed Income Option.  In addition to the investment funds offered under the Savings
Plan as described in (a) above, a participant who is eligible to make voluntary deferrals (see Section
3.1(a)) may elect to have his accounts credited with the deemed investment results as if they were invested in a
fixed income option earning a rate of return specified by the committee. The rate of return under the fixed income
option will be 8% for the 2008 plan year. The rate of return of future plan years will be determined each year by
the committee.

(c)  Exception for Certain Prior Plan Accounts.  Former participants in the IDEC
Pharmaceuticals Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan whose accounts were credited with interest under the
fixed income option available under that plan immediately prior to the date such account was transferred to this
plan may continue to have such transferred amount credited with deemed investment results equal to the interest
rate under that fixed income option. Any additional contributions made under this plan will be credited with deemed
investment results as described in subsection (a) or (b) above. Amounts being credited with interest under this
subsection (c) may be transferred to an option described in subsection (a) or (b) above, but no amounts credited to
a participant s accounts may be transferred into the fixed income option under this subsection (c) (even if such
amounts had previously been invested in such investment fund and then transferred to another investment fund).

(d)  Special Rule for Transferred Prior Plan Accounts and Transferred Biogen SERP
Accounts.  In connection with the transfer of participants  prior plan account balances and Biogen SERP
account balances to this plan, transferred account balances were initially credited with deemed investment results as
if the participant had selected the money market fund investment option under the Savings Plan. Deemed investment
results in accordance with the preceding sentence will apply to such transferred account balances until a
participant changes such designation in accordance with subsection (a) above.

8 

(e)  Bookkeeping Accounts.  Participants  accounts and subaccounts will be maintained
on the books of the participant s employer for bookkeeping purposes only; such accounts will not
represent any property or any secured or priority interest in any trust or in any segregated
asset.

In order to facilitate the administration of the plan, the committee may arrange for a
participant s account to be divided for recordkeeping purposes into two or more subaccounts, in
accordance with procedures established by the committee.

5.3 Vesting. 

(a)  Employer 401(k) Restoration Account. 

(i)  Before January 1, 2008.  This subsection (i) will apply to participants who incur
a termination of employment before January 1, 2008.

A participant who is an active employee will have a fully vested interest in his
employer 401(k) restoration account at all times on and after his 55 th  birthday.
Before that date, such a participant will have a vested interest in that percentage of his
employer 401(k) restoration account specified in the following table based upon his number
of years of service under the plan:

(ii)  On or After January 1, 2008.  This subsection (ii) will apply to
participants who are active employees on or after January 1, 2008 (i.e., have not incurred a termination of
employment with Biogen Idec, or another employer or other subsidiary or affiliate of Biogen
Idec, before January 1, 2008). Each such participant will have a fully vested interest in
his employer 401(k) restoration account at all times.

(b)  Voluntary Deferred Compensation Account.  A participant will have a fully vested
interest in his voluntary deferred compensation account at all times.

(c)  Transition Account. 

(i)  Before January 1, 2008.  This subsection (i) will apply to participants who incur
a termination of employment before January 1, 2008.

A participant who is an active employee will have a fully vested interest in his
transition account at all times on and after his
65 th  birthday. Before that date, such a
participant will have a vested interest in that percentage of his transition contribution
account specified in the following table based upon his number of years of service under
the plan:

9 

(ii)  On or After January 1, 2008.  This subsection (ii) will apply to participants
who are active employees on or after January 1, 2008 (i.e., have not incurred a termination of
employment with Biogen Idec, or another employer or other subsidiary or affiliate of Biogen
Idec, before January 1, 2008). Each such participant will have a fully vested interest in
his transition account at all times.

(d)  Prior Plan Account.  A participant will have a fully vested interest in his prior
plan account at all times.

(e)  Biogen SERP Account.  A participant who is an active employee will have a fully
vested interest in his Biogen SERP account at all times effective January 1, 2004.

(f)  Full
Vesting upon Death, Disability or Change in Control.  Notwithstanding
subsections (a)(i) and (c)(i) above (for participants to whom such subsections apply):

(i) If a participant s employment by his employer (or another Biogen Idec subsidiary
or affiliate) is terminated because of the participant s death or disability, all his accounts
hereunder will be fully vested regardless of his number of years of service.

(ii) In the event of a change in control (as defined in Section 2.8(a)),
all accounts of all participants still employed by Biogen Idec at such time will be
fully vested regardless of a participant s number of years of service.

(g)  Forfeiture of Non-Vested Account Balances.  If a participant terminates employment
with his employer (and all other Biogen Idec subsidiaries or affiliates) under circumstances such that
he is not fully vested in one or more accounts in accordance with the preceding subsections, the non-vested balance(s)
as of the date of termination of employment will be forfeited and cancelled.

(h)  Meaning of  Fully Vested.   Reference to any account of a participant as
 fully vested  means that such account is not subject to forfeiture; however, all participant
accounts, including fully vested accounts, are subject to (i) fluctuation as a result of the
crediting of deemed investment results (including losses) to such accounts as provided in the plan
and (ii) the possibility of the insolvency or bankruptcy of Biogen Idec (or other employer) (see
Section 7.2(a)).

ARTICLE 6 
DISTRIBUTIONS TO PARTICIPANT 

6.1 Distributions for Unforeseeable Emergency.  If a participant has an unforeseeable
emergency prior to his termination of employment with his employer, he may apply to the committee
for a distribution from the plan. If such application for an unforeseeable emergency distribution
is approved by the committee, distribution of the approved amount will be made on the date of
approval by the committee. The amount of the distribution will be the amount reasonably needed to
alleviate the participant s unforeseeable emergency (including the amount necessary to pay any
federal, state or local income taxes and penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the
distribution), as determined by the committee, up to a maximum of the participant s vested account
balances. Such a distribution will be made from the participant s accounts in a single lump sum
payment. If such a participant s account has two or more subaccounts, the committee will determine
which subaccounts will be debited to reflect the unforeseeable emergency distribution.

An unforeseeable emergency is a severe financial hardship affecting the participant resulting
from illness or accident of the participant or the participant s spouse, dependent or designated
beneficiary, the need to rebuild the participant s principal residence following damage not covered
by insurance, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of
events beyond the participant s control. A circumstance or exigency of the participant does not
constitute an unforeseeable emergency to the extent that the participant s financial need is or may
be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, or by liquidation of
assets (to the extent that such liquidation would not itself cause severe hardship).

The committee will determine whether a participant has incurred an unforeseeable emergency and
the amount needed to alleviate the unforeseeable emergency. A participant is not entitled to a
distribution under this

10 

section regardless of the participant s circumstances or exigencies, and all such distributions
and the amounts thereof are subject to the determination of the committee.

6.2 Distribution Upon a Change in Control.  In the event of a change in control (as defined in
Section 2.8(b)), a participant who elected payment of his accounts under the second paragraph of Section
4.4(b)(i) will receive a lump sum payment equal to the amount credited to his accounts hereunder. Such payment
will be made 30 days after the occurrence of the change in control (but not before January 1, 2008 in the case of a
change in control that occurs during 2007). This Section 6.2 is effective as of the date of execution of this amended
and restated plan document.

6.3 In-Service Distribution(s) at a Time Specified by Participant.  A participant who is an eligible
employee under Section 3.1(a) may, in accordance with this section and Section 4.4, elect an
in-service distribution
at a specified future date (but not earlier than five years after the time the participant is
making such election) of the
portion of his vested accounts which is not invested in the fixed income option described in
Section 5.2(b). If, in his
initial enrollment or subsequent change of election form, the participant designated payment of
such portion of his
vested account(s) (or a specified part thereof) at a specified time(s) and he is still an employee
of Biogen Idec (or
another employer or other subsidiary or affiliate) at such time(s), the participant will receive
payment of the amount
elected, payable on the designated date(s). A participant s election for in-service distributions
under this Section 6.3
may be for a single payment or up to five annual payments (with the first payment on the date
specified by the
participant and subsequent payments on anniversaries of such date), in each case in an amount or
portion specified
by the participant in his initial enrollment or other subsequent change of election form (whichever
applies). Each
payment will be the amount specified (or the entire vested balance remaining in the participant s
accounts, if less).

Any amount in a participant s accounts hereunder not distributed to the participant under this
Section 6.3 will be distributed under Section 6.2 or under Section 6.4 or 6.5, whichever may be
applicable, and Section 6.6, if applicable. If a participant is receiving multiple payments under
this Section 6.3 and dies or otherwise terminates employment, or (if applicable) there is a change
in control, payments under this subsection will cease and subsequent payments will be governed by
Section 6.4 or 6.5, or Section 6.2, as the case may be.

6.4 Distribution upon Death of a Participant. 

(a)  In general.  If a participant dies while still an employee of Biogen Idec (or
another employer or other subsidiary or affiliate) or after termination of such employment, but before the
complete distribution of his vested accounts hereunder, his beneficiary will receive the total amount remaining in his
vested accounts. Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.6, distribution will be made in a single sum payment on the
first day of the month after the committee receives appropriate evidence of the participant s death and of the right
of any beneficiary to receive such payment (and in the case of payment to a participant s estate, the appointment of
a personal representative).

(b)  Beneficiary.  Each participant may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive a
distribution payable under subsection (a) above and may revoke or change such a designation at any time. If
the participant names two or more beneficiaries, distribution to them will be in such proportions as the
participant designates or, if the participant does not so designate, in equal shares. Any such designation of beneficiary
will be made in accordance with such procedures or in such form as the committee may prescribe or deem
acceptable.

Any portion of a distribution payable upon the death of a participant that is not disposed of
by a designation of beneficiary under the preceding paragraph, for any reason whatsoever, will be
paid to the beneficiary determined under the following rules:

(i) If at the participant s death the participant has an account under the Savings
Plan and there is a valid designation of beneficiary under the Savings Plan, the
beneficiary(ies) will be the same person(s) who is (are) the Savings Plan
beneficiary(ies) (in the same proportions, if more than one).

(ii) If subsection (a) does not apply, the participant s account(s) hereunder will be paid to the
participant s spouse if living at his death, otherwise equally to the participant s natural
and adopted children living at his death (and the issue of a deceased child by right of
representation), otherwise to the

11 

participant s estate. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a spouse includes a spouse of
the same gender as the participant if the marriage occurred in a jurisdiction that
recognizes as valid marriages between persons of the same gender.

The committee may direct payment in accordance with a prior designation of beneficiary (and
will be fully protected in so doing) if such direction (i) is given before a later designation is
received, or (ii) is due to the committee s inability to verify the authenticity of a later
designation. Such a distribution will discharge all liability therefor under the plan.

6.5 Distribution upon Participant s Termination of Employment. 

(a)  Time and Form of Payment.  Following a participant s termination of employment
(including as a result of disability) for any reason other than death, except as otherwise provided in Section
6.6, the participant will receive a single sum payment equal to his vested account balance, payable on the first
business day following the six-month anniversary of the participant s termination of employment.

(b)  Termination of Employment.  For purposes of this plan, a participant will have a
termination of employment only if the provisions of the regulations under Code Section 409A defining
 separation from service  are satisfied.

6.6 Installment Distributions in Certain Cases. 

(a)  Participant.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.5, a participant may, at
the time of filing
his initial enrollment form under Section 4.4(b)(i) (or, if applicable, in a subsequent
election under Section
4.4(b)(ii)), designate that the amount payable to him hereunder upon termination of employment
will be paid in a
number (minimum of two and maximum of fifteen) of annual installment payments, as specified by
the participant.
However, in the event the participant s vested account balance as of the date that installment
distributions would
begin in accordance with Section 6.5 is equal to or less than the limit under Code Section
402(g)(1)(B) and (g)(4) (as
in effect at such time for example, $15,500 during 2008), such vested account balance will be
automatically paid
in the form of a lump sum payment to the extent not prohibited by the regulations under Code
Section 409A.

(b)  Beneficiary.  Notwithstanding Section 6.4, a participant may at the time of filing
his initial
enrollment form under Section 4.4 (or, if applicable, in a subsequent election), designate
that, if the participant dies
before receiving the entire amount payable to him hereunder, the beneficiary will receive
either:

(i) A number of annual installment payments equal to:

(A) 
       
     the number the participant elected for himself
under subsection (a) above (if the
participant dies before receiving any installment payments), or 

(B) 
       
     the number of remaining installment
payments due to the participant under
subsection (a) above (if the participant dies after receiving
one or more installment payments); or 

(ii) A single payment.

Payment to the beneficiary (or the first installment)
will be made at the time provided in Section 6.4(a).

If the participant fails to designate the form of payment to the beneficiary, the default form
of payment will be a single payment under (ii) above.

(c)  Installment Payments.  Where installment payments are due, the first annual
installment payment
will be made on the date specified in Section 6.4 or 6.5 (whichever is applicable) and
subsequent annual installments
will be paid on succeeding anniversaries of the first payment date. The amount of each annual
installment payment
will be determined by multiplying the then amount of the participant s vested account balances
by a fraction whose
numerator is one and whose denominator is the number of remaining annual installment payments.

12 

(d)  Death of Beneficiary.  If a participant s designated beneficiary is receiving
installment payments
and dies before receiving payment of all the annual installments, the deceased beneficiary s
estate will receive a
lump sum payment of the amount remaining to be distributed to such beneficiary. Such payment
will be made on
the first day of the month next following the committee s receipt of satisfactory evidence of
the death of the
designated beneficiary and the appointment of a personal representative.

(e)  Deemed Single Payment.  As provided in the regulations under Code Section 409A,
installment
payments to a participant will be deemed a single payment on the date of the first installment
for purposes of the
anti-acceleration rule (Section 4.4(b) and Section 6.9) and the rules governing the timing of
changes in elections
with respect to time and form of payment hereunder (Section 4.4(b)).

6.7 Certain Other Distributions.  In addition to the distributions provided for in the preceding
sections of this
Article 6, the committee may provide for a distribution from a participant s account(s) under the
following
circumstances:

(a)  Domestic Relations Order.  Distribution of the amount necessary to fulfill the
requirements of a
domestic relations order (as defined in Code Section 414(p)) requiring the payment of all or a
portion of the
participant s vested account(s) to another individual (see Section 7.3(b)).

(b)  Conflicts of Interest.  Distribution to the extent reasonably necessary to comply
with a federal
government ethics agreement or a federal, state, local or foreign ethics or conflicts of
interest law (as described in
the regulations under Code Section 409A).

(c)  Violation of Code Section 409A.  In the event that, notwithstanding the intent that
this plan satisfy
in form and operation the requirements of Code Section 409A, it is determined that the
requirements of Code
Section 409 A have been violated with respect to one or more accounts of any participant or
group of participants,
distribution of the amount determined to be includable in taxable income of such participant
or participants as a
result of such a violation of Code Section 409A shall be made to such participant(s).

(d)  Other Circumstances.  Distribution of any amount specifically permitted by Code
Section 409A
and the regulations thereunder.

6.8 Delay in Distributions.  Notwithstanding the provisions of any of the foregoing sections in this
Article 6,
the committee may delay the making of any payment due on a specified date to a subsequent date,
provided that the
delayed payment is made not later than the latest time permitted under Code Section 409A and the
regulations and
rulings thereunder (generally, the later of the end of the calendar year in which the specified
payment date occurs or
the 15 th  day of the third month after the specified payment date).

6.9 Compliance with Code Section 409A.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this plan (including,
without limitation, Section 6.7(c)), distributions and elections respecting distributions are
intended to be and will be
administered in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings
thereunder
(including the provisions prohibiting acceleration of payment unless specifically permitted by such
regulations and
rulings).

ARTICLE 7 
MISCELLANEOUS 

7.1 Amendment or Termination of Plan.  Biogen Idec, by action of the Board or of the
Compensation Committee (or such other committee thereof or officer or officers of Biogen Idec to
whom the Board or Compensation Committee has delegated this authority), at any time and from time
to time, may amend or modify any or all of the provisions of this plan or may terminate this plan
without the consent of any participant (or beneficiary or other person claiming through a
participant). In addition, any amendment may be made by the committee, or by the Executive Vice
President   Chief Financial Officer, or the Executive Vice President   Human Resources of Biogen
Idec except for an amendment that would materially increase or reduce the benefits of the plan to
participants or materially increase the cost of maintaining the plan to the employers; such
committee or specified officer(s) may not terminate the plan.

13 

Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, no termination or amendment of the plan may reduce
the amounts credited to the accounts of any participant under the plan (including a participant
whose employment with the employer was terminated before such plan termination or amendment) or the
vested percentages of such accounts. However, Biogen Idec may change the deemed investment options
under Section 5.2, and Biogen Idec may upon termination of this plan pay participants  account
balances to the participants regardless of the times elected for payment (or the start of
installment payments) elected by the participants and may pay such amounts in single sum payments
regardless of whether installment distributions would otherwise be payable under Section 6.6;
provided that any such distributions upon plan termination must be permitted by Code Section 409A
and the regulations and rulings thereunder. In addition, Biogen Idec may, from time to time, make
any amendment that it deems necessary or desirable to satisfy the applicable requirements of the
tax laws and rulings and regulations thereunder in order to preserve, if possible, the tax deferral
features of this plan for participants. No diminution or restriction on a participant s opportunity
to make elections or withdrawals, or exercise other privileges or rights hereunder, pursuant to the
preceding sentence will be deemed to violate the rights of any participant or beneficiary hereunder
so long as such change does not effect a forfeiture of any of a participant s account balances
hereunder or render an account balance (or portion thereof) which previously was nonforfeitable
forfeitable. Any amendment that is required by Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings
thereunder to have a delayed effective date will be effective no earlier than such required date.

7.2 Benefits Not Currently Funded. 

(a) Nothing in this plan will be construed to create a trust or to obligate Biogen Idec to
segregate a
fund, purchase an insurance contract or other investment, or in any other way currently to
fund the future payment of
any benefits hereunder, nor will anything herein be construed to give any participant or any
other person rights to
any specific assets of Biogen Idec or any other entity. However, in order to make provision
for its obligations
hereunder, Biogen Idec (or other employer) may in its discretion purchase an insurance
contract or other investment;
any such contract or investment will be a general asset belonging to Biogen Idec (or other
employer), and no
participant or beneficiary will have any rights to any such asset. The rights of a participant
or beneficiary hereunder
will be solely those of a general, unsecured creditor of his employer.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, Biogen Idec (or other employer) in its sole
discretion may
establish a grantor trust of which it is treated as the owner under Code Section 671 to
provide for the payment of
benefits hereunder, subject to such terms and conditions as Biogen Idec (or other employer)
may deem necessary or
advisable to ensure that trust assets and benefit payments are not includable, by reason of
the trust, in the taxable
income of trust beneficiaries before actual distribution and that the existence of the trust
does not cause the plan or
any other arrangement to be considered funded for purposes of Title I of ERISA. Biogen Idec
may terminate any
such trust in accordance with its terms.

7.3 No Assignment. 

(a) No participant or beneficiary will have any power or right to transfer, assign, anticipate
or otherwise encumber any benefit or amount payable under this plan, nor shall any such benefit
or amount payable be
subject to seizure or attachment by any creditor of a participant or a beneficiary, or to any
other legal, equitable or
other process, or be liable for, or subject to, the debts, liabilities or other obligations of
a participant or beneficiary except as otherwise required by law.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, all or a portion of a participant s account balances
may be
assigned to the participant s spouse, former spouse, or other dependent (for purposes of this
section, an  alternate
recipient ) in connection with a domestic relations order (as defined in Code Section 414(p))
awarding such
portion(s) to the alternate recipient. However, no such order may award to an alternate
recipient greater rights than
the participant has with respect to his account. If any portion of an account so assigned is
not fully vested at such
time, such portion will vest only in accordance with the applicable provisions of this plan
based upon the
participant s years of service. Upon receipt of a copy of the relevant provisions of any such
order or property
settlement agreement, certified or represented to the committee s satisfaction to be accurate
and in effect, and an
acknowledgment by the alternate recipient that such alternate recipient will be responsible
for income taxes on such
amounts when distributed or made available to such alternate recipient and that such amounts
are subject to income
tax withholding as provided in this plan, and such other information (including the alternate
recipient s social

14 

security number) as the committee may reasonably request, the committee will assign such amount to
a separate account hereunder and will distribute such account to the alternate recipient at the
time specified under the domestic relations order (except for any unvested amounts) as provided in
Section 6.7(a).

7.4 Effect of Change in Control. 

(a)  Amendments.  Notwithstanding Section 7.1, following the occurrence of a change in
control (as
defined in Section 2.8(a)): no amendment will be made following a change in control without
the consent of the
affected participant (or beneficiary or other person claiming through a participant) that
adversely affects the rights of
a participant (or beneficiary or other person claiming through a participant) under the plan
as in effect immediately
before such change in control, including (i) the right to make elections concerning the form
and time of payment of
distributions in accordance with Section 4.4(b) and the right to receive distributions in the
form elected by the
participant thereunder; and (ii) the right to the investment funds or options specified herein
for the determination of
deemed investment results applicable to participants  accounts, as in effect immediately
before such change in
control. In particular, for purposes of clause (ii) of the preceding sentence: (i) the
committee may not set the rate of
return under Section 5.2(b) at a rate lower than that available under life insurance or
annuity contracts obtained by a
vendor or service provider (currently, The Todd Organization) for purposes of the plan; and
(ii) the committee will
maintain a menu of investment funds under Section 5.2(a) that is substantially similar (in
terms of investment styles
and ability to position account(s) on a risk/reward spectrum) to the array of funds available
immediately prior to the
change in control.

(b)  Termination.  The plan will not be terminated before the payment of all benefits
hereunder in
accordance with the terms of the plan as in effect immediately before such change in control
without the consent of
a majority of the participants (including, in the case of the deceased participant, the
beneficiary or other person
claiming through such deceased participant). This subsection (b) will not preclude the merger
of this plan into a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan maintained by a successor to Biogen Idec provided that
the benefits and
rights of participants hereunder (including this Section 7.4) are preserved in such successor
plan.

(c)  Effective Date.  This Section 7.4 is effective as of the date of execution of
this amended and restated plan document.

7.5 Responsibilities and Authority of Committee.  The committee will control and manage the
operation and
administration of the plan except to the extent that such responsibilities are specifically
assigned hereunder to
Biogen Idec, the Board or the Compensation Committee, or to a specified officer of Biogen Idec.

The committee will have all powers and authority necessary or appropriate to carry out its
responsibilities for the operation and administration of the plan. It will have discretionary
authority to interpret and apply all plan provisions and may correct any defect, supply any
omission or reconcile any inconsistency or ambiguity in such manner as it deems advisable. It will
make all final determinations concerning eligibility, benefits and rights hereunder, and all other
matters concerning plan administration and interpretation. All determinations and actions of the
committee will be conclusive and binding upon all persons, except as otherwise provided herein or
by law, and except that the committee may revoke or modify a determination or action previously
made in error. It is intended that any action or inaction by the committee will be given the
maximum possible deference by any reviewing body (whether a court or other reviewing body), and
will be reversed by such reviewing court or other body only if found to be arbitrary and
capricious.

Biogen Idec will be the  plan administrator  and the  named fiduciary  for purposes of ERISA.

7.6 Limitation on Rights Created by Plan.  Nothing appearing in the plan will be construed (a) to give any
person any benefit, right or interest except as expressly provided herein, or (b) to create a
contract of employment or to give any employee the right to continue as an employee or to affect or modify his terms of employment in any
way.

7.7 Tax Withholding.  Any payment hereunder to a participant, beneficiary or alternate recipient will be
subject to withholding of income and other taxes to the extent required by law.

15 

7.8 Text Controls.  Headings and titles are for convenience only, and the text will control in all
matters.

7.9 Applicable State Law.  To the extent that state law applies, the provisions of the plan will be
construed,
enforced and administered according to the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

7.10 Paperless Administration.  The committee may establish procedures whereby an electronic,
internet or
voice recognized authorization or election will or may be utilized under the plan in lieu a written
form or document
otherwise required by the terms of the plan. In such event, any reference herein to a written
election, authorization
or other form shall be deemed to include such other authorization or election.

BIOGEN IDEC INC.

By:

/s/ Craig Schneier

Craig Schneier

EVP, HR, Public Affairs   Communications 

10/25/07 

Dated: 

16 

APPENDIX A  

Historical Information; Amendments

A.1  Adoption of Plan Document.  This plan document, effective as of January 1, 2004, was
approved by the Corporation (Biogen Idec Inc.) under the initial name of  Biogen Idec Inc.
Voluntary Executive Supplemental Savings Plan.  Prior to execution of the plan document, the name
of the plan was changed to  Biogen Idec Inc. Supplemental Savings Plan. 

By appropriate votes, (i) the IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan
maintained by IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation, (ii) the Biogen, Inc. Voluntary Executive
Supplemental Savings Plan maintained by Biogen, Inc., and (iii) the Biogen, Inc. Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan maintained by Biogen, Inc. prior to the merger transaction, were merged
into this plan.

A.2  2005 Amendment and Restatement.  The plan was amended and restated in its entirety,
effective as of January 1, 2005 (except as otherwise specified), primarily to comply with the
requirements of Code Section 409A and regulations thereunder. During the period from January 1,
2005 until the date of execution of this amended and restated plan document, the plan was
interpreted and administered in accordance with a good faith interpretation of the requirements of
Code Section 409A and applicable guidance of the Internal Revenue Service thereunder.

The provisions herein relating to distributions and other changes upon the occurrence of a
change in control (primarily Sections 2.8(b),  
4.4(b), 6.2 and 7.4) are effective as of the date of
execution of this amended and restated plan document. The provisions relating to full vesting of
all accounts (subsections 5.3(a) and (c)) and the increase in the threshold for the payment of a
lump sum in place of installments from $10,000 to the Code
Section 402(g)(1)(B) and (g)(4) limit
(the last sentence of subsection 6.6(a)) are effective as of January 1, 2008.

APPENDIX B 

Biogen, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan

B.1  Applicability. 

(a) The provisions of this Appendix B will govern the treatment of transferred Biogen
SERP account balances (or supplemental pension benefit formula benefit under Section 4.1(a) of
the Biogen SERP, if applicable) of persons who were entitled to a benefit under the Biogen SERP
but who were not active employees of Biogen Idec or any of its subsidiaries or other affiliates as
of the date of transfer. To the extent that the provisions of this Appendix B are applicable, they
will govern over any other provisions of this plan.

A participant whose Biogen SERP account (or supplemental pension formula benefit, if
applicable) is governed by this Appendix will be referred to as an  Appendix B
participant. 

(b) This Appendix B will not apply to any transferred Biogen SERP account balances of any
person
who was an active employee of Biogen Idec (or any of its subsidiaries or other affiliates) as
of the date of transfer as
described in Section 3.1(c) and 5.1(e). The other provisions of this plan (including, without
limitation, the crediting
of deemed investment experience and the distribution provisions) will govern such transferred
SERP account
balance.

(c) For purposes of Code Section 409A, this Appendix B will be treated as a separate
grandfathered
non-qualified deferred compensation plan not subject to the requirements of such section.

B.2  Amount Transferred. 

For an Appendix B participant in the excess benefit formulas in Section 4.2 of the Biogen
SERP, the amount transferred from the Biogen SERP to this plan on behalf of an Appendix B
participant was the vested

A-1  

amount in the Appendix B participant s Biogen SERP account as of his or her date of termination of
employment, with subsequent interest credits on such amounts in accordance with the terms of the
Biogen SERP. The full vesting provisions of Section 5.3(e) of this plan will not apply to an
Appendix B participant.

B.3  Interest Credits. 

For an Appendix B participant described in Section B.2, interest credits shall continue to be
added to each such Appendix B participant s Biogen SERP account as of the last day of the plan year
based on the amount of the participant s Biogen SERP account balance as of the first day of the
plan year in the same manner as interest credits were added before such transfer.

The annual rate of interest used to determine the interest credit shall be the annual average
of the yield on the one-year Treasury Bill constant maturity rate for the preceding plan year plus
100 basis points. However, in no event shall the annual interest rate be less than 5.25% or more
than 10.0%.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, for any plan year in which a plan benefit commences, an
interest credit shall be added on the amount of the participant s Biogen SERP account balance as of
the first day of the plan year for the period from the first day of such plan year until the
participant s expected date of distribution. The interest rate shall be the annual interest rate as
described above multiplied by the number of complete months since the end of the prior plan year
divided by 12. Interest credits shall continue to be made during any period in which payment of an
Appendix B participant s benefit is being deferred. In no event will interest credits be made after
benefits have commenced.

B.4  Distributions. 

An Appendix B participant s Biogen SERP account (or supplemental pension formula benefit, if
applicable) will be paid in the same form and beginning at approximately the same time that his
benefit under the Retirement Plan is payable, subject to the following rules. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, if a participant elects a lump sum form of payment under the Retirement Plan,
payment in such form under this plan will be subject to the approval of the committee.

(a)  Annuity Options.  If an Appendix B participant s Biogen SERP account balance (or
supplemental
pension formula benefit, if applicable) is payable in any form other than a lump sum, the
actuarial factors used to
convert his Biogen SERP account balance to such other form of payment will be the same as the
factors used for
such purpose in the Retirement Plan.

(b)  Lump Sum.  If an Appendix B participant s Biogen SERP account is payable in a
single sum, the
payment amount is the amount credited to the participant s account as of the date of payment,
with interest credits
hereunder to such date (or as close thereto as is practicable). For a participant with a
supplemental pension benefit
under Section 4.1(a) of the Biogen SERP, the amount of lump sum payment shall be the
supplemental pension
amount converted to a single lump sum using the assumptions set forth in the Biogen Retirement
Plan for such
purpose.

(c)  Lump Sum Override.  Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this
section, if an Appendix B participant s Biogen SERF account balance (or lump sum value of his
supplemental pension benefit, if applicable) is $10,000 or less as of the date that distribution
would be made, such amount will be paid in the form of a lump sum payment.

B.5  Death Benefits. 

(a)  Applicability of this Section.  This section specifies the benefits payable upon
the death of an
Appendix B participant, either before or after the date his benefit payments hereunder begin.
Except as specified in
this section, no benefits are payable upon the death of an Appendix B participant.

(b)  Preretirement Death Benefits.  If an Appendix B participant dies before the date
when his Biogen
SERP account balance is converted to an annuity or paid to such participant, his beneficiary
will receive payment of

B-2  

the participant s Biogen SERP account balance (or value of supplemental pension benefit, if
applicable). Such amount will be paid in a single payment to the beneficiary.

(c)  Death After Benefit Payments Begin.  If a participant dies while receiving
benefit payments hereunder, his surviving spouse, contingent annuitant or beneficiary will receive
the benefit, if any, payable under the form of payment in effect for such participant.

B-3  

</EX-10.55>

<EX-10.56>
 12
 b68103biexv10w56.htm
 EX-10.56 VOLUNTARY BOARD OF DIRECTORS SAVINGS PLAN

exv10w56 

Exhibit 10.56 

BIOGEN IDEC INC. 

VOLUNTARY BOARD OF DIRECTORS SAVINGS PLAN 

(Plan Provisions as in Effect on January 1, 2008)

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

ARTICLE 1 
INTRODUCTION 

1.1 Purpose and Effective Date.  The purpose of this plan is to provide members of the Board
of Directors of Biogen Idec with a tax-deferred savings opportunity. This plan allows participants
to defer all or a portion of their cash directors  fees and retainer by so electing before such
fees and retainer have been earned.

This amended and restated plan is effective as of January 1, 2005, except as otherwise
stated. Certain historical information about the plan and any amendments thereto is set forth
in Appendix A.

ARTICLE 2 
DEFINITIONS 

This section contains definitions of terms used in the plan. Where the context so requires,
the masculine includes the feminine, the singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.

2.1 Biogen Idec  means Biogen Idec Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor to all or the
major portion of its assets or business which assumes the obligations of Biogen Idec Inc. under
this plan.

2.2 Board  means the Board of Directors of Biogen Idec.

2.3 Change in Control 

(a) For purposes of Section 7.4: a change in control means a  Corporate Change in
Control  or a  Corporate Transaction  as each is defined in the Biogen Idec 2005 Omnibus
Equity Plan.

(b) For purposes of Section 4.2(b) and Section 6.3: a change in control means (i) the
acquisition by a person or group of stock of Biogen Idec that, together with stock previously held
by such person or group, constitutes more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total
voting power of the stock of Biogen Idec; (ii) a change in the effective control of Biogen Idec
resulting from either the acquisition by any person or group during a 12-month period of stock of
Biogen Idec possessing 30 percent or more of the total voting power of Biogen Idec stock; or the
replacement of a majority of the members of the Board during any 12-month period by directors whose
appointment or election was not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board in office
immediately before the start of such 12-month period; or (iii) the acquisition by any person or
group (during any 12-month period) of assets having a gross fair market value equal to or greater
than 40 percent of the total gross fair market value of all assets of Biogen Idec. This subsection
(b) and terms used herein will be interpreted in accordance with the regulations under Code Section
409A relating to a change in the ownership or effective control of a corporation or a change in the
ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation.

This subsection 2.3(b) is effective as of the date of execution of this amended and
restated plan document.

2.4 Committee  means the committee designated by the Board to administer this Plan.

2.5 Director  means an individual serving as a non-employee director of Biogen Idec in accordance
with its articles and by-laws.

2.6
  Fees  means the cash amounts payable to a director as compensation for his or her attendance at
a meeting of the Board or a committee of the Board or for other special services.

2.7 Participant  means a director who has made a voluntary deferral hereunder or for whom an amount
has been transferred to this plan.

2.8 Plan  means the Biogen Idec Inc. Voluntary Board of Directors Savings Plan, as set forth in
this plan instrument, and as it may be amended from time to time.

1 

2.9 Plan Year  means the 12-month periods commencing on January 1, 2005 and on each subsequent
January 1 while this plan remains in effect.

2.10 Retainer  means the cash amount payable to a director as an annual retainer for service in such
capacity, as in effect from time to time.

2.11 Savings Plan  means the Biogen Idec 401(k) Savings Plan, as amended from time to time. Any
term defined in the Savings Plan will have the same meaning when used in this plan unless
otherwise defined herein.

ARTICLE 3 
PARTICIPATION 

3.1 Eligibility and Participation.  Each director will be eligible to be a participant in this plan
as long as he is a director. A director will become a participant hereunder when he makes a
voluntary deferral to this plan or when his account balance under the Biogen, Inc. Voluntary Board
of Directors Savings Plan (the  Biogen Directors Plan ) is transferred to this plan. Voluntary
deferrals under this plan are voluntary and no director will be required to make such deferrals.

3.2 End of Participation.  A participant s participation in this plan will end upon the termination
of his service as a director of Biogen Idec because of death, retirement, resignation, failure of
reelection, or any other reason. Upon the termination of a participant s participation in this plan
in accordance with this section, the participant may make no further voluntary deferrals hereunder.
However, the participant will be entitled to receive any amounts in his account in accordance with
this plan.

ARTICLE 4 
VOLUNTARY DEFERRALS BY PARTICIPANTS 

4.1 Voluntary Deferrals.  Each director may make voluntary deferrals to the plan from his
fees and
retainer in any whole percentage of such fees and/or such retainer, from a minimum of 1% to a
maximum of 100%, by electing to reduce his fees and/or retainer by such amount in accordance with
this plan. If a director s fees include separately identified types of fees (for example, meeting
fees or special service fees), the committee may permit separate elections to defer with respect to
different categories of fees.

All amounts by which a participant reduces his fees and/or retainer hereunder are referred to
herein as the participant s  voluntary deferrals .

4.2 Election Procedures 

(a)  Voluntary Deferrals . A director who wishes to reduce his fees and/or retainer
to be earned during
a particular plan year in order to make voluntary deferrals under Section 4.1 must complete an
enrollment form specifying the amount of his voluntary deferrals (with separate percentages for his
meeting fees, special service fees (if any) and/or retainer, if desired), agreeing to reduce such
fees and/or retainer by the amount(s) he specifies, and providing such other information as the
committee may require.

A director s enrollment form electing voluntary deferrals for any plan year must be filed with
the committee by such deadline as the committee specifies, but in any event before the start of
such plan year. In addition, in the case of an individual who anticipates being elected as a
director during a plan year, such person may make an election hereunder in anticipation of his or
her election and such election will be effective with respect to fees and/or retainer to be earned
after the date of such election; such an election will be effective as of the date when it is made
but will be subject to such individual s actual election as a director. Finally, in the case of a
newly elected director, who did not make an election under the preceding sentence, such person may
elect to defer his fees and/or retainer for the plan year of his election to office, within 30 days
after the committee sends him an enrollment form, provided that such election will relate only to
fees and retainer to be earned after the date of filing his completed enrollment form, and provided
further that such person had not previously been eligible to make voluntary deferrals under this
plan for a period of at least 24 months. A participant may change the amount of his voluntary
deferrals

2 

with respect to any subsequent plan year by filing a new enrollment form before the start of such
subsequent plan year, and the change will become effective as of the first day of such subsequent
plan year. Once a participant has elected to defer fees and/or retainer, his enrollment form will
remain in effect for future plan years unless the participant changes or terminates his prior
elections by filing a new enrollment form in accordance with the preceding sentence.

After a plan year has begun, a participant may not change the amount of voluntary deferrals
(if any) he had elected for such plan year. However, if during a plan year a participant has an
unforeseeable emergency (as defined in Section 6.1) and receives a distribution under Section 6.1,
the participant s voluntary deferral election for the balance of that year will automatically be
cancelled.

(b) Form and Time of Payment.

(i)  Initial Election.  Each participant in the initial enrollment form filed hereunder
or another form designated by the committee must specify the form of payment (lump sum or
installments in accordance with Section 6.4(a), 6.5 and/or 6.6(a) below, as applicable) of
his account hereunder in the event of the participant s death or other termination of
service as a director (including as a result of disability). In addition, effective as of
the date of execution of this amended and restated plan document, a participant may elect
payment of his account under Section 6.3 in the event of a change in control (as defined in
Section 2.3(b)).

In addition, a participant may (but is not required to) specify one or more in-service
distributions to the participant in accordance with Section 6.2 if desired by the
participant.

The time and form payments under the plan are governed by the provisions of Article
6 and participant elections must conform to the requirements of such provisions.

(ii)  Change of Election.  Notwithstanding subsection (i) above, the following
changes of
election will be permitted. If such a subsequent election becomes effective as provided
below, then the participant s account will be payable at the time and in the form specified
in his subsequent election.

(A) 
       
      In-Service Distributions.  In the case of a participant
who elected an in-service distribution, at any time that is at least one year
prior to the date for payment originally elected by the participant, if the
participant is still a director of Biogen Idec at such time, the participant
may make one subsequent election to defer the time when any previously elected
in-service distribution under Section 6.2 from his account would otherwise be
payable (or installment payments would otherwise begin) to a subsequent date
specified by him, and/or may elect another form of payment or a different
number of installments with respect to the in-service distribution of his
account, subject in all cases to the requirements of this section and to the
requirements of Section 6.2. 

(B) 
       
      Death or Termination of Employment.  A participant who
is still a director of Biogen Idec may make one subsequent election to change
the form of payment hereunder that will be used following his death or other
termination of employment. Such an election must comply with the applicable
requirements of Sections 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6 (as applicable). 

(C) 
       
      Effectiveness of Subsequent Election.  A participant s
subsequent election under this subsection (ii) will become effective only if
the following requirements are satisfied: (1) the subsequent election does not
take effect until one year after the date of the subsequent election and the
participant remains a director of Biogen Idec during such one year period, (2)
the election extends the date for payment, or the start date for installment
payments, by at least five years, and (3) in the case of a subsequent election
to defer a previously elected in-service distribution (under subsection (A)
above), the subsequent election is made at least 12 months before the date
previously elected for such in-service distribution. 

3 

No election under this subsection (ii) may operate to accelerate any payment or
distribution hereunder or violate any requirement of Code Section 409A or the
regulations and rulings thereunder.

A participant may make only one subsequent election under subsection (ii) (A) and only
one subsequent election under subsection (ii)(B). Such subsequent election(s) may be made at
the same or at different times. Also, the committee may permit additional election
opportunities (in accordance with the transition or other rules under the regulations or
other Internal Revenue Service guidance under Code Section 409A or in such other
circumstances as the committee deems appropriate). Any such additional subsequent elections
under subsection (ii) must satisfy all the requirements of this section and any other
applicable requirements under the plan or, alternatively, must satisfy such requirements as
the committee may impose in connection with a new election under a Code Section 409A
transition or other rule.

ARTICLE 5 
PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS 

5.1 Participant Accounts. 

(a)  Voluntary Deferrals Accounts . Voluntary deferrals by a participant from his fees
and/or retainer hereunder will be credited to an account in the name of such participant. Such
account will be called his voluntary deferrals account.

(b)  Participant s Account Value . A participant s account will be credited with deemed
investment results as if his voluntary deferrals account were invested in one or more designated
investment funds and all dividends and distributions on shares of a particular investment fund were
reinvested in shares of such fund. The investment funds available for this purpose will be those
from time to time available as investment options under the Savings Plan.

In addition to the investment funds offered under the Savings Plan as described in the
preceding paragraph, a participant may elect to have his account credited with the deemed
investment results as if such amounts were invested in a fixed income option earning a rate of
return specified by the committee. The rate of return under the fixed income option will be 8% for
the 2008 plan year. The rate of return of future plan years will be determined by the committee.

Investment funds hereunder are for the sole purpose of providing a basis for crediting deemed
investment results to participants  accounts, and do not represent any actual funds or assets held
hereunder for the benefit of participants.

Each participant will indicate with his initial enrollment form (or other form specified by
the committee) the investment fund or funds (and the proportion in each fund when the participant
designates more than one) he wishes to designate for this purpose. Thereafter, a participant may
change his designation either with respect to the deemed investment of future voluntary deferrals
or the deemed transfer of amounts from a previously designated investment fund to another fund. The
committee shall establish the frequency by which such a change may be made, the method of making
such a change, and the effective date of such a change and shall prescribe such other rules and
procedures as it deems appropriate. Such designation will remain in effect until subsequently
changed by the participant in accordance with this paragraph. Following a participant s death and
before the payment of any amount due to the participant s beneficiary hereunder has been completed,
the beneficiary will exercise the participant s designation powers under this section.

Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the committee may establish one or more default
investment funds that will be used to determine deemed investment results in the case of any
participant or group of participants who have not made a designation under the preceding paragraph.
Such default investment fund(s) will be used to determine deemed investment results applicable to
the account of such participant or participants until any such participant makes a designation of
investment fund(s) in accordance with the plan.

4 

Deemed investment results under this subsection will be credited to a participant s account
effective as of the last day of each plan year (and as of such other valuation dates during a plan
year as the committee may establish).

The value of a participant s account at any point in time will be his voluntary deferrals
(plus, if applicable, his transferred account balance from the Biogen Directors Plan), increased or
decreased by deemed investment results as provided in this subsection (b) through the end of the
most recent valuation date, and reduced by any distributions from the participant s account.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in connection with the transfer of participants  Biogen
Directors Plan account balances to this plan, transferred account balances will be initially
credited with deemed investment results as if the participant had selected the money market fund
investment option under the Savings Plan. Deemed investment results in accordance with the
preceding sentence will apply to such transferred account balances until a participant changes such
designation in accordance with this section.

(c)  Bookkeeping Accounts . Participants  accounts and subaccounts will be
maintained on Biogen Idec s books for bookkeeping purposes only; such accounts will not
represent any property or any secured or priority interest in any trust or in any segregated
asset.

In order to facilitate the administration of the plan, the committee may arrange for a
participant s voluntary deferrals account to be divided for recordkeeping purposes into two or more
subaccounts, in accordance with procedures established by the committee.

5.2 Vesting.  A participant will have a fully vested interest in his voluntary deferrals
account at all times. For this purpose,  fully vested  means that such account is not subject to
forfeiture; however, all participant accounts are subject to (i) fluctuation as a result of the
crediting of deemed investment results (including losses) to such accounts as provided in the plan
and (ii) the possibility of the insolvency or bankruptcy of Biogen Idec (see Section 7.2(a)).

ARTICLE 6 
DISTRIBUTIONS TO PARTICIPANT 

6.1 Distributions for Unforeseeable Emergency.  If a participant has an unforeseeable
emergency prior to his termination of service as a director, he may apply to the committee for a
distribution from his account. If such application for an unforeseeable emergency distribution is
approved by the committee, distribution of the approved amount will be made on the date of approval
by the committee. The amount of the distribution will be the amount reasonably needed to alleviate
the participant s unforeseeable emergency (including the amount necessary to pay any federal, state
or local income taxes and penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution), as
determined by the committee, up to a maximum of the participant s account balance. Such a
distribution will be made from the participant s account in a single lump sum payment. If such a
participant s account has two or more subaccounts, the committee will determine which subaccount(s)
will be debited to reflect the unforeseeable emergency distribution.

An unforeseeable emergency is a severe financial hardship affecting the participant resulting
from illness of the participant or spouse, dependent or designated beneficiary, need to rebuild the
participant s principal residence following damage not covered by insurance, or other similar
extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the
participant s control. A circumstance or exigency of the participant does not constitute an
unforeseeable emergency to the extent that the participant s financial need is or may be relieved
through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of assets (to the
extent that such liquidation would not itself cause severe hardship), or by cessation of voluntary
deferrals in accordance with Section 4.1.

The committee will determine whether a participant has incurred an unforeseeable emergency
and the amount needed to alleviate the unforeseeable emergency. A participant is not entitled
to a distribution under this section regardless of the participant s circumstances or
exigencies, and all such distributions and the amounts thereof are subject to the determination
of the committee.

5 

6.2. In-Service Distribution(s) at a Time Specified by Participant.  A participant shall be
permitted, in accordance with this section, to elect an in-service distribution at a specified date
(but not earlier than five years after the date he is making such election) of the portion of his
account that is not invested in the fixed income option described in the second paragraph of
Section 5.1(b). If, in his initial enrollment or other election form (or, if applicable, a
subsequent election under Section 4.2(b)(ii)), the participant elected payment of such portion of
his account (or a specified part of such portion) at a specified time(s) and he is still a director
at such time(s), the participant will receive payment of the amount elected, payable on the
designated date(s). A participant s election for in-service distributions under this Section 6.2
may be for a single payment or up to five annual payments (with the first payment on the date
specified by the participant and subsequent payments on anniversaries of such date), in each case
in an amount or portion specified by the participant in his enrollment or other election form. Each
payment will be the amount specified (or the entire balance remaining in the participant s account,
if less).

Any amount in a participant s account hereunder not distributed to the participant under this
Section 6.2 will be distributed under Section 6.3, 6.4 or 6.5, whichever may be applicable, and
Section 6.6 (if applicable). If a participant is receiving multiple payments under this Section 6.2
and dies or otherwise terminates service as a director, payments under this subsection will cease
and subsequent payments will be governed by Section 6.4 or 6.5, as the case may be.

6.3 Distribution Upon a Change in Control.  In the event of a change in control (as defined in
Section 2.3(b), a participant who elected payment of his account under Section 4.2(b)(i) will
receive a lump sum payment equal to the amount credited to his account hereunder. Such payment will
be made 30 days after the occurrence of the change in control (but not before January 1, 2008 in
the case of a change in control that occurs during 2007). This Section 6.2 is effective as of the
date of execution of this amended and restated plan document.

6.4 Distribution upon Death of a Participant. 

(a)  In general . If a participant dies before his entire account balance has been
distributed, his beneficiary will receive the amount remaining in the participant s account.
Except as provided in Section 6.6, distribution will be made in a single sum payment on the
first day of the month after the committee receives appropriate evidence of the participant s
death and of the right of any beneficiary to receive such payment (and in the case of payment
to the participant s estate, the appointment of a personal representative).

(b)  Beneficiary . A participant may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive a
distribution payable under subsection (a) above and may revoke or change such a designation at any
time. If the participant names two or more beneficiaries, distribution to them will be in such
proportions as the participant designates or, if the participant does not so designate, in equal
shares. Any designation of beneficiary will be made in accordance with such procedures or in such
form as the committee may prescribe or deem acceptable.

Any portion of a distribution payable upon the death of a participant that is not disposed of
by a designation of beneficiary under the preceding paragraph, for any reason whatsoever, will be
paid to the participant s spouse if living at his death, otherwise equally to the participant s
natural and adopted children (and the issue of a deceased child by right of representation),
otherwise to the participant s estate.

The committee may direct payment in accordance with a prior designation of beneficiary (and
will be fully protected in so doing) if such direction (i) is given before a later designation is
received, or (ii) is due to the committee s inability to verify the authenticity of a later
designation. Such a distribution will discharge all liability therefor under the plan.

6.5 Other Distributions.  Except in the case of the participant s death (in which case distribution
is made in accordance with Section 6.4), distribution of a participant s account will be made at
the time elected by the participant in accordance with Section 4.2. In the absence of such an
election, distribution of the participant s account will be made on the first day of the month
after the participant s termination of service as a director. Distribution will be made in a single
lump sum payment.

In applying the distribution provisions of this Article 6, in the case of a participant who
terminates service as a director but thereupon becomes an employee of Biogen Idec (or a subsidiary
or other affiliate of Biogen Idec),

6 

such participant will be deemed not to have a termination of service as a director until he
terminates employment with Biogen Idec (or subsidiary or other affiliate).

6.6 Installment Distributions in Certain Cases. 

(a)  Participant . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.5, a participant may, at
the time of filing his initial enrollment form under Section 4.2(b)(i) (or, if applicable, in a
subsequent election under Section 4.2(b)(ii)), designate that the amount payable to him hereunder
upon termination of service as a director will be paid in a number (minimum of two and maximum of
fifteen) of annual installment payments, as specified by the participant. However, in the event the
participant s account balance as of the date that installment distribution would begin in
accordance with Section 6.5 is equal to or less than the limit under Code Section 402(g)(l)(B) and
(g)(4) as in effect when installments would begin (for example, $15,500 for 2008)), such account
balance will automatically be paid in the form of a lump sum payment to the extent not prohibited
by the regulations under Code Section 409A.

(b)  Beneficiary.  Notwithstanding Section 6.4, a participant may at the time of filing
his initial enrollment form under Section 4.2 (or, if applicable, in a subsequent election)
designate that, if the participant dies before receiving the entire amount payable to him
hereunder, the beneficiary will receive either:

(i) 
       
     A number of annual installment payments equal to: 

(A) 
       
     the number the participant elected for himself
under subsection (a) above (if the participant dies before receiving
any installment payments), or 

(B) 
       
     the number of remaining installment
payments due to the participant under subsection (a) above (if the
participant dies after receiving one or more installment payments);
or 

(ii) 
       
     a single payment. 

Payment to the beneficiary (or the first installment) will be made or begin as provided in
Section 6.4(a).

If the participant fails to designate the form of payment to the beneficiary, the default form
of payment will be a single payment under (ii) above.

(c)  Installment Payments . Where installment payments are due, the first annual
installment payment will be made on the date specified in Section 6.4 or 6.5 (whichever is
applicable) and subsequent annual installments will be paid on succeeding anniversaries of the
first payment date. The amount of each annual installment payment will be determined by multiplying
the amount then remaining to be paid by a fraction whose numerator is one and whose denominator is
the number of remaining annual installment payments.

(d)  Death of Beneficiary . If a participant s designated beneficiary is receiving
installment payments and dies before receiving payment of all the annual installments, the
designated beneficiary s estate will receive a lump sum payment of the amount remaining to the
distributed to such deceased beneficiary. Such payment will be made on the first day of the month
next following the committee s receipt of satisfactory evidence of the death of the designated
beneficiary and the appointment of a personal representative.

(e)  Deemed Single Payment . As provided in the regulations under Code Section 409A,
installment payments to a participant will be deemed a single payment on the date of the first
installment for purposes of the anti-acceleration rule (Section 4.2(b) and Section 6.9) and the
rules governing the timing of changes in elections with respect to time and form of payment
hereunder (Section 4.2(b)).

6.7 Certain Other Distributions.  In addition to the distributions provided for in the preceding
sections of this
Article 6, the committee may provide for a distribution from a participant s account under
the following circumstances:

(a)  Domestic Relations Order . Distribution of the amount necessary to fulfill the
requirements of a
domestic relations order (as defined in Code Section 414(p)) requiring the payment of all
or a portion of participant s account to another individual (see Section 7.3(b)).

7 

(b)  Conflicts of Interest . Distribution to the extent reasonably necessary to comply
with a federal government ethics agreement or a federal, state, local or foreign ethics or
conflicts of interest law (as described in the regulations under Code Section 409A.

(c)  Violation of Code Section 409A . In the event that, notwithstanding the intent that
this plan satisfy in form and operation the requirements of Code Section 409A, it is determined
that the requirements of Code Section 409A have been violated with respect to any participant or
group of participants, distribution of the amount determined to be includable in taxable income of
such participant or participants as a result of such violation of Code Section 409A.

(d)  Other Circumstances . Distribution of any amount specifically permitted by Code
Section 409A and the regulations thereunder.

6.8 Delay in Distributions.  Notwithstanding the provisions of any of the foregoing sections in this
Article 6, the committee may delay the making of any payment to a subsequent date, provided that
the delayed payment is made not later than the latest time permitted under Code Section 409A and
the regulations and rulings thereunder (generally, the later of the end of the calendar year in
which the specified payment date occurs or the 15 th  day of the third month after the
specified payment date).

6.9 Compliance with Code Section 409A.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this plan (including,
without limitation, Section 6.7(c)), distributions and elections respecting distributions are
intended to be and will be administered in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 409A and
the regulations and rulings thereunder (including the provisions prohibiting acceleration of
payment unless specifically permitted by such regulations and rulings).

ARTICLE 7 
MISCELLANEOUS 

7.1 Amendment or Termination of Plan.  Biogen Idec, by action of the Board or of the Compensation
Committee (or such committee thereof or officer or officers of Biogen Idec to whom the Board has
delegated this authority), at any time and from time to time, may amend or modify any or all of the
provisions of this plan or may terminate this plan without the consent of any participant (or
beneficiary or other person claiming through a participant). In addition, any amendment may be made
by the committee, or the Executive Vice President   Chief Financial Officer, or the Executive Vice
President   Human Resources of Biogen Idec except for an amendment that would materially increase
or reduce the benefits of the plan to participants or materially increase the cost of maintaining
the plan to Biogen Idec; such committee or specified officers may not terminate the plan.

No termination or amendment of the plan may reduce the amount credited to the account of any
participant under the plan (including a participant whose service as a director terminated before
such plan termination or amendment). However, Biogen Idec may change the deemed investment options
under Section 5.1(b), and Biogen Idec may upon termination of this plan pay participants  account
balances to the participants regardless of the times elected for payment (or the start of
installment payments) elected by the participants and may pay such amounts in single sum payments
regardless of whether installment distributions would otherwise be payable under Section 6.6;
provided that any such distributions upon plan termination must be permitted by Code Section 409A
and the regulations and rulings thereunder. In addition, Biogen Idec may, from time to time, make
any amendment that it deems necessary or desirable to satisfy the applicable requirements of the
tax laws and rulings and regulations thereunder in order to preserve, if possible, the tax deferral
features of this plan for participants. No diminution or restriction on a participant s opportunity
to make elections or withdrawals, or exercise other privileges or rights hereunder pursuant to the
preceding sentence will be deemed to violate the rights of any participant or beneficiary hereunder
so long as such change does not render a participant s account balance forfeitable. Any amendment
that is required by Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings thereunder to have a delayed
effective date will be effective no earlier than such required date.

8 

7.2 Benefits Not Currently Funded. 

(a) Nothing in this plan will be construed to create a trust or to obligate Biogen Idec to
segregate a fund, purchase an insurance contract or other investment, or in any other way currently
to fund the future payment of any benefits hereunder, nor will anything herein be construed to give
any participant or any other person rights to any specific assets of Biogen Idec or any other
entity. However, in order to make provision for its obligations hereunder, Biogen Idec may in its
discretion purchase an insurance contract or other investment; any such contract or investment will
be a general asset belonging to Biogen Idec, and no participant or beneficiary will have any rights
to any such asset. The rights of a participant or beneficiary hereunder will be solely those of a
general, unsecured creditor of Biogen Idec.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, Biogen Idec in its sole discretion may establish a
grantor trust of which it is treated as the owner under Code Section 671 to provide for the payment
of benefits hereunder, subject to such terms and conditions as Biogen Idec may deem necessary or
advisable to ensure that trust assets and benefit payments hereunder are not includable, by reason
of the trust, in the taxable income of trust beneficiaries before actual distribution and that the
existence of the trust does not cause the plan or any other arrangement to be considered funded for
purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ) or
for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Biogen Idec may terminate any such
trust in accordance with its terms.

7.3 No Assignment. 

(a) No participant or beneficiary will have any power or right to transfer, assign, anticipate
or otherwise encumber any benefit or amount payable under this plan, nor shall any such benefit or
amount payable be subject to seizure or attachment by any creditor of a participant or a
beneficiary, or to any other legal, equitable or other process, or be liable for, or subject to,
the debts, liabilities or other obligations of a participant or beneficiary except as otherwise
required by law.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, all or a portion of a participant s account balance
may be assigned to the participant s spouse, former spouse, or other dependent (for purposes of
this section, an  alternate recipient ) in connection with a domestic relations order (as defined
in Code Section 414(p)) awarding such portion to the alternate recipient. However, no such order
may award an alternate recipient greater rights than the participant has with respect to his
account. Upon receipt of a copy of the relevant provisions of any such order or property settlement
agreement, certified to be accurate and in effect by the participant, and an acknowledgment by the
alternate recipient that such alternate recipient will be responsible for income taxes on such
amounts when distributed or made available to such alternate recipient and that such amounts are
subject to income tax withholding as provided in this plan, and such other information (including
the alternate recipient s social security number) as the committee may reasonably request, the
committee will assign such amount to a separate account hereunder and will distribute such account
to the alternate recipient at the time specified under the domestic relations order.

7.4 Effect of Change in Control. 

(a)  Amendments . Notwithstanding Section 7.1, following the occurrence of a change in
control (as defined in Section 2.3(a)): No amendment will be made following a change in control
without the consent of the affected participant (or beneficiary or other person claiming through a
participant) that adversely affects the rights of a participant (or beneficiary or other person
claiming through a participant) under the plan as in effect immediately before such change in
control, including (i) the right to make elections concerning the form and time of payment of
distributions in accordance with Section 4.2(b) and the right to receive distributions in the form
elected by the participant thereunder; and (ii) the right to the investment funds or options
specified herein for the determination of deemed investment results applicable to participants 
accounts, as in effect immediately before such change in control. In particular, for purposes of
clause (ii) of the preceding sentence (i) the committee may not set the rate of return of the fixed
income option under Section 5.1(b) at a rate lower than that available under life insurance or
annuity contracts obtained by a vendor or service provider (currently, The Todd Organization) for
purposes of the plan; and (ii) the committee will maintain a menu of investment funds under Section
5.1(b) that is substantially similar (in terms of investment styles and ability to position an
account on a risk/reward spectrum) to the array of funds available immediately prior to the change
in control.

(b)  Termination.  The plan will not be terminated before the payment of all benefits
hereunder in accordance with the terms of the plan as in effect immediately before such change in
control without the consent of a majority of the participants (including, in the case of the
deceased participant, the beneficiary or other person

9 

claiming through such deceased participant). This subsection (b) will not preclude the merger of
this plan into a nonqualified deferred compensation plan maintained by a successor to Biogen Idec
provided that the benefits and rights of participants hereunder (including this Section 7.4) are
preserved in such successor plan.

(c)  Effective Date.  This Section 7.4 is effective as of the date of
execution of this amended and restated plan document.

7.5 Responsibilities and Authority of Committee.  The committee will control and manage the
operation and administration of the plan except to the extent that such responsibilities are
specifically assigned hereunder to Biogen Idec, the Board, the Compensation Committee (or a
delegatee of the Board or the Compensation Committee).

The committee will have all powers and authority necessary or appropriate to carry out its
responsibilities for the operation and administration of the plan. It will have discretionary
authority to interpret and apply all plan provisions and to correct any defect, supply any omission
or reconcile any inconsistency or ambiguity in such manner as it deems advisable. It will make all
final determinations concerning eligibility, benefits and rights hereunder, and all other matters
concerning plan administration and interpretation. All determinations and actions of the committee
will be conclusive and binding upon all persons, except as otherwise provided herein or by law, and
except that the committee may revoke or modify a determination or action previously made in error.
It is intended that any action or inaction by the committee will be given the maximum possible
deference by any reviewing body (whether a court or other reviewing body), and will be reversed by
such reviewing court or other body only if found to be arbitrary and capricious.

Biogen Idec will be the  plan administrator  and the  named fiduciary  for purposes of
ERISA.

7.6 Limitation on Rights Created by Plan.  Nothing appearing in the plan will be construed (a) to
give any person any benefit, right or interest except as expressly provided herein, or (b) to
create a contract of employment or to give any director the right to continue in such capacity or
to affect or modify the terms of his service as a director in any way.

7.7 Tax Withholding.  Any payment hereunder to a participant, beneficiary or alternate recipient
will be subject to withholding of income and other taxes to the extent required by law.

7.8 Text Controls.  Headings and titles are for convenience only, and the text will control in all
matters.

7.9 Applicable State Law.  To the extent that state law applies, the provisions of the plan will be
construed, enforced and administered according to the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

7.10 Paperless Administration.  The committee may establish procedures whereby an electronic,
internet or voice recognized authorization or election will or may be utilized under the plan in
lieu a written form or document otherwise required by the terms of the plan. In such event, any
reference herein to a written election, authorization or other form shall be deemed to include such
other authorization or election.

BIOGEN IDEC INC.

By:

/s/ Craig Schneier

Craig Schneier 

EVP, HR, Public Affairs   Communications 

10/25/07

Dated: 

10 

APPENDIX A  

Historical Information; Amendments

A.1  Adoption of Plan Document.  This plan document was approved by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation (Biogen Idec Inc.), effective as of January 1, 2004.

By appropriate votes, the account balances of certain directors who previously were
participants under the Biogen, Inc. Voluntary Board of Directors Savings Plan, maintained by
Biogen, Inc. prior to the merger transaction, were transferred to and merged into this plan.

A.2  2005 Amendment and Restatement.  The plan was amended and restated in its entirety,
effective as of January 1, 2005 (except as otherwise specified), primarily to comply with the
requirements of Code Section 409A and regulations thereunder. During the period from January 1,
2005 until the date of execution of this amended and restated plan document, the plan was
interpreted and administered in accordance with a good faith interpretation of the requirements of
Code Section 409A and applicable guidance of the Internal Revenue Service thereunder.

The provisions herein relating to distributions and other changes upon the occurrence of a
change in control (primarily Sections 2.3, 4.2(b), 6.3 and 7.4) are effective as of the date of
execution of this amended and restated plan document. The provisions relating to the increase in
the threshold for the payment of a lump sum in place of installments from $10,000 to the Code
Section 402(g)(l)(B) and (g)(4) limit (the last sentence of Section 6.6(a)) are effective as of
January 1, 2008.

A-1 

</EX-10.56>

<EX-21.1>
 13
 b68103biexv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1 SUBSIDIARIES

exv21w1 

Exhibit 21 

BIOGEN IDEC INC. 

The
following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31,
2007, omitting some subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate,
would not constitute a significant subsidiary.

STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF  

SUBSIDIARY  
       
      INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION  

Biogen Idec MA Inc.

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec Holding I Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Holding II Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Realty Corporation

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec Realty Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Corporation

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec Realty LLC

Delaware 

The Biogen Idec Foundation Inc.

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Pacific LLC

Delaware 

Biogen Idec U.S. West Corporation

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Nobel Research Center, LLC

Delaware 

Conforma Therapeutics Corporation

Delaware 

Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Canada Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec SRO, Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec (Argentina) SRL

Argentina 

Biogen Idec Australia PTY Ltd

Australia 

Biogen Idec Austria GmbH

Austria 

Biogen Idec Belgium N.V.

Belgium 

Biogen Idec Brazil Produtos Farmaceuticos LTDA

Brazil 

Biogen Idec (Czech Republic) s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) A/S

Denmark 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) Manufacturing ApS

Denmark 

Biogen Idec Holding APS

Denmark 

Biogen Idec Finland OY

Finland 

Biogen Idec France S.A.S.

France 

Biogen Idec GmbH

Germany 

Biogen Idec Biotech India Pvt. Ltd.

India 

Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd.

Ireland 

Biogen Idec Japan Ltd.

Japan 

Biogen Idec Mexico S. DE R.L. DE C.V.

Mexico 

Biogen Idec B.V.

The Netherlands 

Biogen Idec International B.V.

The Netherlands 

Biogen Idec Norway AS

Norway 

Biogen Idec NZ Ltd.

New Zealand 

Biogen Idec Portugal Sociedade Farmaceutica, Unipessoal, Lda.

Portugal 

Biogen Idec Iberia, S.L.

Spain 

Biogen Idec (Slovak Republic) s.r.o.

Slovak Republic 

Biogen Idec promet s farmacevtskimi in biotehnoloskimi proizvodi d.o.o

Slovenia 

Biogen Idec International GmbH

Switzerland 

Biogen Idec Ltd.

UK 

BiogenIdec Sweden AB

Sweden 

Biogen-Domp  AG

Switzerland 

Biogen-Domp  SRL

Italy 

Biogen Idec K/S

Denmark 

Biotech Manufacturing CV

The Netherlands 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 14
 b68103biexv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-89792), 
    Registration Statement on
     Form S-4 
     (No. 333-107098) 
    and Registration Statements on
     Form S-8 
    (Nos.
     333-97211, 
     333-106794, 
     333-47904, 
     333-65494, 
     333-81625, 
     333-110432, 
     333-110433, 
     333-128339 
    and
     333-140817) 
    of Biogen Idec Inc. of our report dated February 14, 2008
    relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this
     Form 10-K. 

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

Boston, MA

February 14, 2008

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 15
 b68103biexv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1  

I, James C. Mullen, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report of Biogen Idec Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   James
    C. Mullen 

James C. Mullen

Chief Executive Officer and President

Date: February 14, 2008

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 16
 b68103biexv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2  

I, Paul J. Clancy, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report of Biogen Idec Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Paul
    J. Clancy 

Paul J. Clancy

Executive Vice President, Finance and

Chief Financial Officer

Date: February 14, 2008

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 17
 b68103biexv32w1.htm
 EX-32-1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CEO & CFO

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1  

CERTIFICATION  

Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002 

(Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350,
    Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code) 

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350,
    chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), each of
    the undersigned officers of Biogen Idec Inc., a Delaware
    corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify, to
    such officer s knowledge, that:

The Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the
      Form 10-K ) 
    of the Company fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, and the information contained in the
     Form 10-K 
    fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
    condition and results of operations of the Company.

James C. Mullen

Chief Executive Officer and

President

[principal executive officer]

Paul J. Clancy

Executive Vice President, Finance

and Chief Financial Officer

[principal financial officer]

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
    retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

