<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090206_10-K_edgar_data_875045_0000950135-09-000730_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2256549</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>572721</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>13930</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1228326</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>96</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950135-09-000730.hdr.sgml : 20090206
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090206171532
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-09-000730
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		21
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090206
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090206

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BIOGEN IDEC INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000875045
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				330112644
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19311
		FILM NUMBER:		09578154

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		14 CAMBRIDGE CENTER
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6176792000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		14 CAMBRIDGE CENTER
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BIOGEN IDEC INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20031112

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORP / DE
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19970530

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WcDoW/JZ79tb88nsdGNY+8nhqO6O3525qDH46hZcuyJgs2gUufw56Uz6D1ghZNhU
 DA0+G+fijyMjeDv02wS9hA==

 0000950135-09-000730.txt : 20090206

10-K
 1
 b73435bie10vk.htm
 BIOGEN IDEC INC.

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file number: 0-19311 

Biogen Idec Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 

33-0112644 

(State or other jurisdiction
    of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or
    organization)  

Identification No.)  

14 Cambridge Center, 

02142 

Cambridge, Massachusetts 

(Zip code)  

(Address of principal executive
    offices)   

(617) 679-2000  
         (Registrant s
    telephone number, including area code) 
          Securities
    registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act:   

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, $0.0005 par value 

The Nasdaq Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of the Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer   

Accelerated
    filer   

Non-accelerated
    filer     
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting
    company    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the Registrant s Common Stock
    held by non-affiliates of the Registrant (without admitting that
    any person whose shares are not included in such calculation is
    an affiliate) computed by reference to the price at which the
    common stock was last sold as of the last business day of the
    Registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    was $16,179,698,132.

As of February 2, 2009, the Registrant had
    297,252,825 shares of Common Stock, $0.0005 par value,
    issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for our 2009 Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into
    Part III of this Report.

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. 

ANNUAL
    REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K  

For the
    Year Ended December 31, 2008 

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Overview 

1

Marketed Products 

2

Other Sources of Revenue 

6

Late-Stage Product Candidates 

7

Other Research and Development Programs 

9

Research and Development Costs 

9

Patents and Other Proprietary Rights 

10

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

12

Competition 

13

Regulatory 

15

Manufacturing and Raw Materials 

19

Our Employees 

20

Our Executive Officers 

20

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

23

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

33

Item 2. 

Properties 

34

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

34

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

34

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

35

Item 6. 

Selected Consolidated Financial Data 

37

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

38

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

63

Item 8. 

Consolidated Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data 

64

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

64

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

64

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

65

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

66

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

66

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

66

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

66

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

66

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

67

Signatures 

68

Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-1

Ex-4.4 Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between Biogen Idec and Mellon Investor Services LLC dated as of January 22, 2009.    
     Ex-10.19 Amendment to Biogen Idec Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan dated October 13, 2008    
     Ex-10.25 Amendment to Biogen Idec Inc. 2006 Non-Employee Directors Equity Plan dated October 13, 2008    
     Ex-10.30 Amendment to Biogen Idec Inc. 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan dated October 13, 2008    
     Ex-10.34 Amendment to Biogen Idec Inc. 2003 Omnibus Equity Plan dated October 13, 2008    
     Ex-10.45 Amendment to Biogen, Inc. 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan dated October 13, 2008    
     Ex-10.51 Biogen Idec Inc. Executive Severance Policy - U.S. Executive Vice President, as amended effective October 13, 2008.    
     Ex-10.52 Biogen Idec Inc. Executive Severance Policy - International Executive Vice President, as amended effective October 13, 2008.    
     Ex-10.53 Biogen Idec Inc. Executive Severance Policy - U.S. Senior Vice President, as amended effective October 13, 2008.    
     Ex-10.54 Biogen Idec Inc. Executive severance Policy - International Senior Vice President, as amended effective October 13, 2008.    
     Ex-10.59 Second Amendment to Employment Agreement between Biogen Idec and James C. Mullen dated as of December 4, 2008    
     Ex-10.61 Employment Agreement between Biogen Idec Management Services GmbH and Hans Peter Hasler dated October 15, 2008.    
     Ex-10.63 First Amendment to Employment Agreement between Biogen Idec and Cecil B. Pickett dated as of October 28, 2008    
     Ex-10.66 First Amendment to Employment Agreement between Biogen Idec and Craig E. Schneier dated October 8, 2008    
     Ex-21.1 Subsidiaries    
     Ex-23.1 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP - an Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     Ex-31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
     Ex-31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
     Ex-32.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

Overview  

Biogen Idec Inc. ( we  or  Biogen Idec )
    creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high
    unmet medical needs. Our business strategy is focused on
    discovering and developing first-in-class or best-in-class
    products that we can deliver to specialty markets globally.
    Patients in more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen
    Idec s significant products that address medical needs in
    the areas of neurology, oncology and immunology.

Marketed
    Products  

We currently have four therapeutic products on the market, which
    are summarized in the table below.

*  

Outside the United States, Canada and Japan, MabThera is the
    trade name for rituximab. We refer to rituximab, RITUXAN and
    MabThera collectively as RITUXAN. 

Other
    Sources of Revenue  

We receive royalty revenues on sales by our licensees of other
    products covered under patents that we control. In 2008, 2007
    and 2006, our royalty revenues were $116.2 million,
    $102.1 million and $86.2 million, respectively.

Additional financial information about our product revenues,
    other revenues and geographic areas is set forth in
    Note 22, Segment Information in  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. 

Research
    and Development  

We devote significant resources to research and development
    programs and external business and corporate development
    efforts. We intend to focus our research and development efforts
    on finding novel therapeutics in areas of high unmet medical
    need, both within our current focus areas of neurology,
    oncology, immunology and cardiology as well as in new
    therapeutic areas. We have 22 pipeline products in Phase 2
    trials or beyond. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, our research and
    development costs were $1,072.1 million,
    $925.2 million and $718.4 million, respectively.

Available
    Information  

We were formed as a California corporation in 1985 and became a
    Delaware corporation in 1997. Our principal executive offices
    are located at 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts
    02142 and our telephone number is
     (617) 679-2000. 
    Our website address is www.biogenidec.com. We make available
    free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our
    website our Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.
    We include our website address in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be
    an active link to our website. The contents of our website are
    not incorporated into this filing.

1

Table of Contents   

Marketed
    Products  

Our marketed products address multiple sclerosis (MS),
    non-Hodgkin s lymphoma (NHL), rheumatoid arthritis (RA),
    Crohn s disease (CD) and psoriasis. As part of our
    ongoing development efforts, we are also seeking to expand our
    marketed products into other diseases, such as chronic
    lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), lupus nephritis, ANCA-associated
    vasculitis, multiple myeloma and ulcerative colitis. The
    approved indications for, and ongoing development of, our
    marketed products are summarized in the table below.

Development and/or 

Product 

Product Indications 

Status 

Marketing Collaborators 

AVONEX  

Relapsing MS

Approved   numerous countries worldwide

None

Ulcerative colitis

Phase 2

None

RITUXAN  

Certain B-cell NHL

Approved   numerous countries worldwide

All RITUXAN Indications:   
    U.S.   Genentech  
    Japan   Zenyaku and Chugai  
    Outside U.S. and Japan   Roche

RA, anti-TNF-inadequate responders

Approved   U.S.

See above

RA, DMARD na ve and inadequate responders (IR)

Phase 3 complete (DMARD na ve) Filed with regulators
    (DMARD-IR)

See above

CLL

Phase 3 complete and regulatory filings planned

See above

Lupus nephritis

Phase 3

U.S.   Genentech

ANCA-associated vasculitis

Phase 2/3

U.S.   Genentech

TYSABRI  

Relapsing MS

Approved   numerous countries worldwide

Elan

CD

Approved   U.S.

Elan

Multiple myeloma

Phase 1/2

Elan

FUMADERM  

Severe psoriasis

Approved   Germany

Almirall

AVONEX   

We currently market and sell AVONEX worldwide for the treatment
    of relapsing MS. MS is a progressive neurological disease in
    which the body loses the ability to transmit messages along
    nerve cells, leading to a loss of muscle control, paralysis and,
    in some cases, death. Patients with active relapsing MS
    experience an uneven pattern of disease progression
    characterized by periods of stability that are interrupted by
     flare-ups  of
    the disease after which the patient returns to a new baseline of
    functioning. AVONEX is a recombinant form of a protein produced
    in the body by fibroblast cells in response to viral infection.
    AVONEX has been shown in clinical trials in relapsing MS both to
    slow the accumulation of disability and to reduce the frequency
    of
     flare-ups. 
    AVONEX is approved to treat relapsing MS, including patients
    with a first clinical episode and MRI features consistent with
    MS.

AVONEX is on the market in over 70 countries. Based on data from
    an independent third party research organization, information
    from our distributors and internal analysis, we believe that
    AVONEX is the most prescribed therapeutic product for the
    treatment of MS worldwide. Globally over 135,000 patients
    use AVONEX.

2008
    Developments  

We continue to work to expand the clinical data available about
    AVONEX and MS treatments, invest in AVONEX lifecycle development
    and focus on projects that will help patients adhere to therapy.

In September 2008, we announced that data from the follow-up
    study known as ASSURANCE showed the long-term benefits of AVONEX
    therapy in patients with relapsing MS for up to 15 years.
    The ASSURANCE study represents the long-term
     follow-up  of
    patients who participated in the Multiple Sclerosis
    Collaborative Research Group (MSCRG) trial, the original Phase 3
    pivotal trial from which AVONEX was approved. Specifically, the
    ASSURANCE study showed that patients currently taking AVONEX for
    up to 15 years versus those not on AVONEX therapy reported:
    (1) significantly lower disability progression as measured
    by a mean change in Expanded Disability Scale Scores (EDSS) of
    2.3 vs. 3.3 from the MSCRG baseline; (2) lower disability
    progression

2

Table of Contents   

to EDSS milestones four, six and seven; (3) greater quality
    of life as measured by the physical component score of the SF-36
    health survey; (4) significantly greater sense of
    independence in self care; and (5) significantly more
    independent living.

We have also extended the five-year study known as CHAMPIONS for
    an additional five years. CHAMPIONS was originally designed to
    determine whether the effect of early treatment with AVONEX in
    delaying relapses and reducing the accumulation of MS brain
    lesions could be sustained for up to five years. The study
    results showed that AVONEX altered the long-term course of MS in
    patients who began treatment immediately after their initial MS
    attack compared to initiation of treatment more than two years
    after onset of symptoms. The five-year study extension is
    intended to determine if the effects of early treatment with
    AVONEX can be sustained for up to ten years. We also continue to
    support Phase 4 investigator-run studies evaluating AVONEX in
    combination with other therapies.

Outside of MS, we are conducting a Phase 2 trial of AVONEX in
    ulcerative colitis, a form of inflammatory bowel disease.

RITUXAN   

RITUXAN is one of the highest selling oncology therapeutics in
    the world and has had approximately 1.5 million patient
    exposures worldwide across all indications. In the United
    States, RITUXAN is approved for NHL with the following label
    indications:

The treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory, low-grade
    or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL as a single agent;

The treatment of patients with previously untreated diffuse
    large B-cell, CD20-positive, NHL, or DLBCL, in combination with
    CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone)
    or other anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens;

The treatment of patients with previously untreated follicular,
    CD20-positive, B-cell NHL in combination with CVP
    (cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone)
    chemotherapy; and

The treatment of patients with non-progressing (including stable
    disease), low grade CD20-positive, B-cell NHL, as a single
    agent, after first line CVP chemotherapy.

NHL is a cancer that affects lymphocytes, which are a type of
    white blood cell that help to fight infection. RITUXAN is an
    immunotherapy that targets CD20-positive B-cell lymphocytes
    involved in certain types of NHL and helps the immune system to
    eliminate them.

RITUXAN, in combination with methotrexate, is also approved for
    reducing signs and symptoms and to slow the progression of
    structural damage in adult patients with moderately-to-severely
    active RA who have had an inadequate response to one or more
    tumor necrosis factor, or TNF, inhibitor therapies. RA is a
    chronic disease that occurs when the immune system mistakenly
    attacks the body s joints, resulting in inflammation, pain
    and joint damage. RITUXAN targets CD20-positive B-cell
    lymphocytes believed to be involved in RA and helps the immune
    system to eliminate them.

Our revenues from RITUXAN include three components:

U.S. Co-Promotion Profits.    In the
    United States, we co-promote RITUXAN in collaboration with
    Genentech, Inc. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by
    Genentech, and we record our share of the pre-tax co-promotion
    profits on a quarterly basis. Genentech provides the primary
    support functions for the commercialization of RITUXAN in the
    United States and has worldwide manufacturing responsibilities.

Rest of World Revenues.    Outside the
    United States, F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., or Roche, markets
    and sells RITUXAN, except in Japan where RITUXAN is co-marketed
    by Zenyaku Kogyo Co. Ltd., or Zenyaku, and Chugai Pharmaceutical
    Co., Ltd., or Chugai, an affiliate of Roche. In Canada, we
    receive our share of pre-tax co-promotion profits from Roche.
    Outside of the U.S. and Canada, we receive royalties through
    Genentech on sales of RITUXAN for a period of 11 years from
    the date of first commercial sale in each country. For the
    majority of European countries, the first commercial sale of
    RITUXAN occurred in the second half of 1998.

3

Table of Contents   

Therefore, we expect a significant decrease in royalty revenues
    on sales of RITUXAN outside the United States beginning in the
    latter half of 2009. Specifically, the royalty period with
    respect to sales in France, Spain, Germany and the United
    Kingdom will expire in 2009. The royalty period with respect to
    sales in Italy will expire in 2010. The royalty period with
    respect to sales in other countries will expire through 2012.

Expense Reimbursement.    We receive
    reimbursement from Genentech for our selling and development
    expenses incurred in the United States.

In the United States, we share responsibility with Genentech for
    continued development of RITUXAN. Such continued development
    includes conducting supportive research and post-approval
    clinical studies and seeking potential approval for additional
    indications. Under the terms of our collaboration agreement with
    Genentech, we also have the right to participate with Genentech
    in the development and commercialization of any anti-CD20
    product acquired or developed by Genentech, which we refer to as
    a New Anti-CD20 Product, as well as the right to participate
    with Genentech in the development and commercialization of any
    anti-CD20 product that Genentech licenses from a third party,
    which we refer to as a Third Party Anti-CD20 Product. Under the
    terms of the collaboration agreement there are different rights
    and obligations that apply depending on whether an anti-CD20
    product is a New Anti-CD20 Product or a Third Party Anti-CD20
    Product. Currently, there is only one New Anti-CD20 Product,
    ocrelizumab, and only one Third Party Anti-CD20 Product, GA101.
    We have the right to co-promote with Genentech any New Anti-CD20
    Products resulting from such development in the United States.
    We are currently in arbitration with Genentech as to whether
    Genentech has the right to develop collaboration products
    without our approval. See Note 19, Litigation, in  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  for a description of
    that arbitration. Our agreement with Genentech provides that the
    successful development and commercialization of the first New
    Anti-CD20 Product will decrease our percentage of co-promotion
    profits of the collaboration. Ocrelizumab is in Phase 3 trials
    for rheumatoid arthritis and lupus nephritis and is also in a
    Phase 2 trial for relapsing MS.

2008
    Developments  

In April 2008, we and Genentech announced that a Phase 2/3
    study of RITUXAN in primary-progressive multiple sclerosis
    (PPMS) did not meet its primary endpoint, as measured by the
    time to confirmed disease progression during the 96-week
    treatment period.

In April 2008, we and Genentech also announced that a
    Phase 2/3 study of RITUXAN in systemic lupus erythematosus
    (SLE) did not meet its primary endpoint, defined as the
    proportion of RIXUTAN treated patients who achieved a major
    clinical response or partial clinical response compared to
    placebo at 52 weeks. The study also did not meet any of the
    six secondary endpoints.

In December 2008, we and Genentech announced the results of two
    global Phase 3 registrational studies of RITUXAN in CLL, a
    cancer affecting B-cell lymphocytes. These studies, known as the
    CLL8 and REACH studies, showed that RITUXAN plus chemotherapy
    significantly increased the time patients lived without their
    disease advancing, as defined by the primary endpoint of
    progression-free survival, when compared to chemotherapy alone.
    Specifically, in the CLL8 study, 817 patients newly
    diagnosed with CLL were given RITUXAN combined with
    chemotherapy, with 41% of such patients experiencing a reduction
    in the risk of death or cancer progression when compared with
    those treated with chemotherapy alone. In addition, the REACH
    study, involving 552 participants, found RITUXAN reduced the
    risk of cancer progression or death by 35 percent for
    patients who had a relapse of CLL symptoms after chemotherapy.
    We and Genentech anticipate submitting an application to the FDA
    for potential new indications for RITUXAN in first- and
    second-line treatment of CLL in 2009.

In December 2008, we and Genentech announced that a Phase 3
    clinical study of RITUXAN in patients with early RA who have not
    previously been treated with methotrexate met its primary
    endpoint. In this study, known as IMAGE, patients received two
    infusions of either 500 mg or 1000 mg of RITUXAN or
    placebo for up to two treatment courses in combination with a
    stable dose of methotrexate. At week 52, only patients in the
    1000 mg treatment group met the primary endpoint and showed
    significantly less progression of joint damage compared to
    patients who received placebo in combination with methotrexate.

4

Table of Contents   

We, along with Genentech and Roche, initiated a Phase 3 clinical
    trial of RITUXAN in RA patients who are inadequate responders to
    disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, or DMARDs, in 2006. In
    January 2008, we announced that the trial, known as SERENE, met
    its primary endpoint of a significantly greater proportion of
    RITUXAN-treated patients achieving an American College of
    Rheumatology (ACR) 20 response (the proportion of patients who
    achieve at least 20% improvement) at week 24, compared to
    placebo. In this trial, patients who received either 500 mg
    or 1000 mg of RITUXAN as a single treatment course of two
    infusions in combination with a stable dose of methotrexate
    displayed a statistically significant improvement in symptoms
    compared to patients who received placebo in combination with
    methotrexate. In September 2008, we and Genentech filed for an
    expansion of the RITUXAN label to include treatment of RA
    patients who have had an inadequate response to DMARDs.

We, along with Genentech, are conducting a Phase 3 clinical
    trial of RITUXAN in lupus nephritis, an inflammation of the
    kidney caused by systemic lupus erythematosus, a disease of the
    immune system. We anticipate reporting results from this trial
    in the first half of 2009.

The National Institutes of Health is conducting a Phase 2/3
    clinical trial of RITUXAN in ANCA-associated vasculitis, a type
    of inflammation of the blood vessels. We anticipate that data
    from this trial will be available in 2009.

TYSABRI   

TYSABRI was initially approved by the FDA in November 2004 to
    treat relapsing MS to reduce the frequency of clinical relapses.
    In February 2005, in consultation with the FDA, we and our
    collaborator Elan Corporation plc, or Elan, voluntarily
    suspended the marketing and commercial distribution of TYSABRI
    based on reports of cases of PML in patients treated with
    TYSABRI in clinical studies. In July 2006, TYSABRI was
    reintroduced in the United States, and introduced in the
    European Union, as a monotherapy treatment for relapsing MS to
    slow the progression of disability and reduce the frequency of
    clinical relapses.

TYSABRI is marketed under risk management or minimization plans
    as agreed to with local regulatory authorities. In the United
    States, TYSABRI was reintroduced with a risk minimization action
    plan known as the TOUCH Prescribing Program, a rigorous system
    intended to educate physicians and patients about the risks
    involved and assure appropriate use of the product. TYSABRI is
    currently approved for the treatment of MS in 39 countries.

In January 2008, we and Elan announced the FDA s approval
    of a supplemental biologics license application, or sBLA, for
    use of TYSABRI for inducing and maintaining clinical response
    and remission in adult patients with moderately to severely
    active CD with evidence of inflammation who have had an
    inadequate response to, or are unable to tolerate, conventional
    CD therapies and inhibitors of TNF-alpha. TYSABRI became
    available for the treatment of CD in the United States in the
    first quarter of 2008.

As of the end of 2008, approximately 37,000 patients were
    on commercial TYSABRI therapy worldwide. Cumulatively,
    approximately 48,300 patients have been treated with
    TYSABRI in the post-marketing setting.

Under the terms of our collaboration with Elan, we are solely
    responsible for the manufacture of TYSABRI worldwide, and we
    collaborate with Elan on the product s marketing,
    commercial distribution and ongoing development activities. The
    collaboration agreement with Elan is designed to effect an equal
    sharing of profits and losses generated by the activities of the
    collaboration between Elan and us. Under our agreement with
    Elan, however, if sales of TYSABRI exceed specified thresholds,
    Elan is required to make milestone payments to us in order to
    continue sharing equally in the collaboration s results.
    During 2008, Elan paid us $75 million to maintain the
    current profit sharing under our collaboration agreement. In
    January 2009, Elan paid us an additional $50 million
    milestone payment to maintain this profit sharing split.

In the United States, we sell TYSABRI to Elan who sells the
    product to third party distributors. Elan and we co-market the
    product. The sales price to Elan in the United States is set at
    the beginning of each quarterly period to effect an approximate
    equal sharing of the gross margin between Elan and us. In
    addition, in the United States both parties share equally in the
    operating costs, which include research and development,
    selling, general and administrative expenses and other similar
    costs. For sales outside of the United States, we are
    responsible for

5

Table of Contents   

distributing TYSABRI to customers and are primarily responsible
    for all operating activities. We and Elan share equally in the
    operating results of TYSABRI outside the United States.

2008
    Developments  

The FDA s approval of TYSABRI to treat relapsing MS was
    based on one-year data from two Phase 3 clinical studies. In
    September 2008, we and Elan announced that a post hoc analysis
    of one of these studies showed TYSABRI treatment increases the
    probability of achieving sustained improvement in physical
    disability over two years when compared to placebo. This
    post-hoc analysis provides the first evidence that TYSABRI is
    associated with a significant improvement in functional outcome,
    rather than only slowing or preventing progression of
    disability, in those living with relapsing MS. These findings
    were presented as a poster presentation at the World Congress on
    Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis in September 2008.

We initiated the first clinical trial of TYSABRI in oncology in
    2008. The objectives of this Phase 1/2 study are to evaluate the
    safety and potential anti-tumor activity of TYSABRI in patients
    with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.

Since the reintroduction of TYSABRI in the United States and the
    introduction of TYSABRI outside the United States in July 2006,
    we have disclosed five cases of progressive multifocal
    leukoencephalopathy, or PML, a known side effect, in patients
    taking TYSABRI. These patients are the only confirmed cases of
    PML reported to us during this period.

FUMADERM   

We acquired FUMADERM as part of our purchase of Fumapharm AG in
    June 2006 and subsequently acquired the right to distribute
    FUMADERM in Germany from Fumedica GmbH effective May 1,
    2007. FUMADERM acts as an immunomodulator and is approved in
    Germany for the treatment of severe psoriasis. The product has
    been in commercial use in Germany since 1994 and is the most
    prescribed oral systemic treatment for severe psoriasis in
    Germany.

Other
    Sources of Revenue  

Our product line previously included ZEVALIN (ibritumomab
    tiuxetan), which is part of a treatment regimen for certain
    B-cell non-Hodgkin s lymphoma, and AMEVIVE (alefacept), a
    treatment for certain psoriasis. We have sold or exclusively
    licensed the rights to these products to third parties and
    continue to receive royalty or supply agreement revenues based
    on those products.

We also receive royalties on sales by our licensees of a number
    of other products covered under patents that we control. For
    example:

We receive royalties from Schering-Plough Corporation, or
    Schering-Plough, on sales of its alpha interferon products in
    the United States pursuant to an interference settlement
    covering our alpha interferon patents and patent applications.
    Schering-Plough sells its
    INTRON   

    A (interferon alfa-2b) brand of alpha interferon in the United
    States for a number of indications, including the treatment of
    chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C. Schering-Plough also
    sells other alpha interferon products for the treatment of
    hepatitis C, including
    REBETRON   

    Combination Therapy containing INTRON A and
    REBETOL   

    (ribavirin, USP),
     PEG-INTRON    

    (peginterferon alfa-2b), a pegylated form of alpha interferon,
    and PEG-INTRON in combination with REBETOL. See  Patents
    and Other Proprietary Rights   Recombinant Alpha
    Interferon. 

We hold several patents related to hepatitis B antigens produced
    by genetic engineering techniques. These antigens are used in
    recombinant hepatitis B vaccines and in diagnostic test kits
    used to detect hepatitis B infection. We receive royalties from
    sales of hepatitis B vaccines in several countries, including
    the United States, from GlaxoSmithKline plc and Merck and
    Co. Inc.. We have also licensed our proprietary hepatitis B
    rights, on an
     antigen-by-antigen 
    and nonexclusive basis, to several diagnostic kit manufacturers,

6

Table of Contents   

including Abbott Laboratories, the major worldwide marketer of
    hepatitis B diagnostic kits. See  Patents and Other
    Proprietary Rights   Recombinant Hepatitis B
    Antigens. 

We also receive ongoing royalties on sales of
    ANGIOMAX   

    (bivalirudin) by The Medicines Company. The Medicines Company
    sells ANGIOMAX in the United States, Europe, Canada and Latin
    America for use as an anticoagulant in combination with aspirin
    in patients with unstable angina undergoing percutaneous
    transluminal coronary angioplasty.

Our royalty revenues are dependent upon our licensees 
    sales of licensed products which could vary significantly due to
    competition, manufacturing difficulties and other factors. In
    addition, the expiration or invalidation of any underlying
    patents could reduce or eliminate the royalty revenues derived
    from such patents.

Late-Stage
    Product Candidates  

In addition to the ongoing development of our marketed products,
    we are currently developing the late stage product candidates
    that are set forth in the table below.

Development and/or 

Marketing 

Product 

Product Indications 

Status 

Collaborators 

BG-12  

Relapsing MS

Phase 3

None

Anti-CD80 MAb (galiximab)  

Relapsed NHL

Phase 3

None

Anti-CD23 MAb (lumiliximab)  

Relapsed CLL

Phase 2/3

None

Humanized Anti-CD20 MAb (ocrelizumab)  

RA

Phase 3

U.S.   Genentech 
    Japan   Chugai and Zenyaku 
    Outside U.S. and Japan   Roche

Lupus nephritis

Phase 3

See above

Lixivaptan  

Hyponatremia, commonly seen in acute decompensated heart failure

Phase 3

Cardiokine

ADENTRI     

Acute decompensated heart failure with renal insufficiency

Phase 3

None

BG-12   

BG-12 is an oral fumarate derivative that is being tested in
    relapsing MS and appears to have neuroprotective and
    anti-inflammatory properties. We acquired BG-12 with the
    purchase of Fumapharm in June 2006. Two Phase 3 trials, known as
    DEFINE and CONFIRM, for relapsing MS are currently underway
    evaluating the effect of BG-12 on measurements of clinical
    relapse, the progression of disability and various MRI measures,
    with the CONFIRM trial including a glatiramer acetate
    (Copaxone   )

    reference comparator arm.

Anti-CD80
    MAb (galiximab)   

Galiximab is a monoclonal antibody (MAb) directed against the
    CD80 surface antigen on human B-cells that we developed using
    our
    Primatized   

    antibody technology. Anti-CD80 antibodies work by binding to a
    particular protein (the CD80 antigen) on the surface of normal
    and malignant B-cells. From there, they recruit the body s
    natural defenses to attack and kill the marked B-cells. A Phase
    3 trial is currently underway that is designed to compare
    treatment with galiximab in combination with RITUXAN to
    treatment with RITUXAN in combination with placebo in patients
    with follicular NHL that have relapsed or failed to respond to
    initial therapy.

Anti-CD23
    MAb (lumiliximab)   

Lumiliximab is a monoclonal antibody directed against the CD23
    surface antigen on human B-cells that we developed using our
    Primatized   

    antibody technology. Anti-CD23 antibodies work by binding to a
    particular protein (the CD23 antigen) on the surface of normal
    and malignant B-cells. From there, they recruit the body s
    natural defenses to attack and kill the marked B-cells. A Phase
    2/3 study is currently underway that is designed to

7

Table of Contents   

compare treatment with lumiliximab in combination with
    fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and RITUXAN, a standard
    chemotherapy regimen, to treatment with FCR alone in patients
    with relapsed or refractory CLL.

Humanized
    Anti-CD20 MAb (ocrelizumab)   

This second generation anti-CD20 antibody is a humanized
    monoclonal antibody directed against the CD20 surface antigen on
    human B-cells, the same antigen that RITUXAN targets. Anti-CD20
    antibodies work by binding to a particular protein (the CD20
    antigen) on the surface of normal and malignant B-cells. From
    there, they recruit the body s natural defenses to attack
    and kill the marked B-cells. During 2008, our collaborator
    Genentech initiated  a fourth Phase 3 study of ocrelizumab for
    rheumatoid arthritis to study the administration of anti-CD20 as
    a single infusion and a Phase 3 study of ocrelizumab for lupus
    nephritis. We are currently in arbitration with Genentech as to
    whether Genentech has the right to develop collaboration
    products, including ocrelizumab, without our approval. See
    Note 19, Litigation, in  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements  for a description of that arbitration.

Lixivaptan   

Lixivaptan, an oral compound for the potential treatment of
    hyponatremia and chronic heart failure, is being developed in
    conjunction with our collaborator Cardiokine Biopharma LLC, or
    Cardiokine. Lixivaptan is a highly potent, non-peptide,
    selective V2 vasopressin receptor antagonist. It antagonizes the
    action of vasopressin (also known as antidiuretic hormone) on
    the V2 receptors in the kidney collecting duct, causing water to
    be excreted from the kidney, without affecting sodium or other
    electrolytes. Based on this mechanism of action, lixivaptan
    shows promise in the treatment of disease states associated with
    water retention and electrolyte imbalance, including
    hyponatremia, which is the most common electrolyte disorder in
    clinical practice. Hyponatremia is recognized as an independent
    contributor to negative patient outcomes in many chronic
    diseases, most notably congestive heart failure, as well as
    cirrhosis and syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic hormone.
    Two Phase 3 studies of lixivaptan for hyponatremia are currently
    underway.

Pursuant to our collaboration agreement with Cardiokine, we paid
    $50.0 million upfront to Cardiokine and will pay them up to
    $170.0 million in milestone payments for successful
    development and global commercialization of lixivaptan, as well
    as royalties on commercial sales. We will be responsible for the
    global commercialization of lixivaptan, and Cardiokine has an
    option for limited copromotion in the United States.

ADENTRI   

ADENTRI, an adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, is being developed
    under a licensing agreement with CV Therapeutics, Inc. A Phase 3
    study is currently underway that is designed to evaluate the
    efficacy and safety of intravenous ADENTRI for acute
    decompensated heart failure patients with renal insufficiency.

8

Table of Contents   

Other
    Research and Development Programs  

We intend to continue to commit significant resources to
    research and development opportunities. We intend to focus our
    research and development efforts on finding novel therapeutics
    in areas of high unmet medical need. Our core focus areas are in
    neurology, oncology, immunology and cardiology, but our research
    and development efforts extend to additional therapeutic areas.
    We dedicate resources to the development of new product
    candidates and, in some cases, to new applications of existing
    marketed products and late-stage product candidates. Several of
    our preclinical and early stage product candidates are
    highlighted in the table below.

Development and/or 

Marketing 

Therapeutic Area 

Product Candidate 

Indication 

Status 

Collaborators 

Neurology

BIIB014

Parkinson s disease   early and late stage

Phase 2

Vernalis plc

Daclizumab

Relapsing MS

Phase 2

Facet Biotech Corporation (formerly part of PDL BioPharma, Inc.)

CDP323

Relapsing MS

Phase 2

UCB S.A.

Humanized Anti-CD20 MAb(ocrelizumab)

Relapsing MS

Phase 2

U.S. Genentech Japan Chugai and Zenyaku Outside U.S.
    and Japan Roche

PEG-IFN beta 1a

MS

Phase 1

Neublastin

Neuropathic pain

Preclinical

NsGene A/S

LINGO

MS

Preclincal

Oncology

Volociximab (M200)

Solid tumors   non-small cell lung cancer

Phase 2

Facet Biotech

Hsp90 Inhibitor (CNF2024)

Solid tumors   gastrointestinal stromal tumors

Phase 2

GA101

NHL

Phase 2

U.S.   Genentech 
    (U.S. rights only)

GA101

CLL

Phase 1

U.S.   Genentech 
    (U.S. rights only)

Anti-IGF-1R (BIIB022)

Solid tumors

Phase 1

Anti-CRIPTO

Solid tumors

Phase 1

RAF Inhibitor (BIIB024)

Solid tumors

Preclinical

Sunesis Pharmaceuticals

Anti-Fn14

Solid tumors

Preclinical

Autoimmune and Inflammatory Diseases

BG-12

RA

Phase 2

Anti-TWEAK

RA

Phase 1

Anti-CD40L Fab

Systemic lupus erythematosus

Preclinical

UCB

Anti-FcRn

Pemphigus

Preclinical

Cardiovascular

ADENTRI (BG9928)

Chronic congestive heart failure

Phase 2

Aviptadil

Pulmonary arterial hypertension

Phase 2

mondoBiotech AG

Emerging Therapeutic Areas

Long acting rFactor IX

Hemophilia B

Phase 1/2a

Biovitrum

Long acting rFactor VIII

Hemophilia A

Preclinical

Biovitrum

Research
    and Development Costs  

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our
    research and development costs were $1,072.1 million,
    $925.2 million and $718.4 million, respectively.
    Additionally, for 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred charges
    associated with acquired in-process research and development of
    $25.0 million, $84.2 million and $330.5 million,
    respectively.

9

Table of Contents   

Patents
    and Other Proprietary Rights  

We have filed numerous patent applications in the United States
    and various other countries seeking protection of inventions
    originating from our research and development, including a
    number of our processes and products. Patents have been issued
    on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to
    various patents and patent applications under licenses with
    third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us.
    The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded
    to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the
    United States and in other important markets remains
    uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided
    upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these
    countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or
    others, if obtained, will afford us substantial protection or
    commercial benefit. Similarly, there is no assurance that our
    pending patent applications or patent applications licensed from
    third parties will ultimately be granted as patents or that
    those patents that have been issued or are issued in the future
    will stand if they are challenged in court.

A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Competitors
    may have filed applications for, or have been issued patents and
    may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may
    relate to products or processes competitive with or similar to
    our products and processes. Moreover, the patent laws of the
    United States and foreign countries are distinct and decisions
    as to patenting, validity of patents and infringement of patents
    may be resolved differently in different countries. In general,
    we try to obtain licenses to third party patents, that we deem
    necessary or desirable for the manufacture, use and sale of our
    products. We are currently unable to assess the extent to which
    we may wish to or may be required to acquire rights under such
    patents and the availability and cost of acquiring such rights,
    or whether a license to such patents will be available on
    acceptable terms or at all. There may be patents in the United
    States or in foreign countries or patents issued in the future
    that are unavailable to license on acceptable terms. Our
    inability to obtain such licenses may hinder our ability to
    market our products.

We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the United States
    and in other countries claiming subject matter potentially
    useful to our business. Some of those patents and patent
    applications claim only specific products or methods of making
    such products, while others claim more general processes or
    techniques useful or now used in the biotechnology industry.
    There is considerable uncertainty within the biotechnology
    industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many
    issued patents in the United States and elsewhere in the world,
    and, to date, there is no consistent policy regarding the
    breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. We cannot
    currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents
    which may be granted to third parties in the future or which
    patents might be asserted to be infringed by the manufacture,
    use and sale of our products.

There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. We expect that litigation
    may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and
    scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Conversely,
    litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the
    validity, scope
     and/or 
    noninfringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Intellectual property litigation could therefore
    create business uncertainty and consume substantial financial
    and human resources. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation
    could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or
    other proprietary rights, or, conversely, hinder our ability to
    market our products. See  Item 3   Legal
    Proceedings  for a description of our patent litigation.

Our trademarks RITUXAN and AVONEX are important to us and are
    generally covered by trademark applications or registrations
    owned or controlled by us in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
    Office and in other countries. We employ other trademarks in the
    conduct of our business under license by third parties, for
    example, we utilize the mark TYSABRI under license from Elan. In
    addition, AMEVIVE is a registered trademark of Astellas US LLC,
    and ZEVALIN is a registered trademark of Cell Therapeutics, Inc.

Recombinant
    Beta Interferon   

Third parties have pending patent applications or issued patents
    in the United States, Europe and other countries with claims to
    key intermediates in the production of beta interferon. These
    are known as the Taniguchi patents.

10

Table of Contents   

Third parties also have pending patent applications or issued
    patents with claims to beta interferon itself. These are known
    as the Roche patents and the Rentschler patents, respectively.
    We have obtained non-exclusive rights in various countries of
    the world, including the United States, Japan and Europe, to
    manufacture, use and sell AVONEX, our brand of recombinant beta
    interferon, under the Taniguchi, Roche and Rentschler issued
    patents. The last of the Taniguchi patents expire in the United
    States in May 2013 and have expired already in other countries
    of the world. The Roche patents expired in the United States in
    May 2008, which ended our obligation to pay Roche royalties on
    sales of AVONEX in the United States. The Roche patents also
    have generally expired elsewhere in the world. The Rentschler EU
    patent expires in July 2012.

RITUXAN
    and Anti-CD20 Antibodies   

We have several issued U.S. patents and U.S. patent
    applications, and numerous corresponding foreign counterparts
    directed to anti-CD20 antibody technology, including RITUXAN. We
    have also been granted patents covering RITUXAN by the European
    and Japanese Patent Offices. In the United States our principal
    patents covering the drugs or their uses expire between 2015 and
    2018. With regard to the rest of the world, our principal
    patents covering the drug products expire in 2013 subject to
    potential patent term extensions in countries where such
    extensions are available. Our recently-granted patent in certain
    European countries claiming the treatment with anti-CD20
    antibodies of certain auto-immune indications, including
    rheumatoid arthritis, has been revoked by the European Patent
    Office. We are appealing the decision. In addition, after
    revocation actions were filed against the same patent in the UK,
    we and Genentech agreed that the corresponding patent claims
    would cover only RITUXAN and not other CD20 antagonist drugs.

In addition Genentech, our collaborative partner for RITUXAN,
    has secured an exclusive license to five U.S. patents and
    counterpart U.S. and foreign patent applications assigned
    to Xoma Corporation that relate to chimeric antibodies against
    the CD20 antigen. These patents expire between 2007 and 2014.
    Genentech has granted us a non-exclusive sublicense to make,
    have made, use and sell RITUXAN under these patents and patent
    applications. We, along with Genentech, share the cost of any
    royalties due to Xoma in the Genentech/Biogen Idec copromotion
    territory on sales of RITUXAN. In addition, we and our
    collaborator, Genentech, have filed numerous patent applications
    directed to anti-CD20 antibodies and their uses to treat various
    diseases. These pending patent applications have the potential
    of issuing as patents in the United States and abroad covering
    anti-CD20 antibody molecules for periods beyond that stated
    above for RITUXAN.

Recombinant
    Alpha Interferon   

In 1979, we granted an exclusive worldwide license to
    Schering-Plough under our alpha interferon patents. Most of our
    alpha interferon patents have since expired, including
    expiration of patents in the United States, Japan and all
    European countries. Schering-Plough pays us royalty payments on
    U.S. sales of alpha interferon products under an
    interference settlement entered into in 1998. Under the terms of
    the interference settlement,
     Schering-Plough 
    agreed to pay us royalties under certain patents to be issued to
    Roche and Genentech in consideration of our assignment to
    Schering-Plough of the alpha interferon patent application that
    had been the subject of a settled interference with respect to a
    Roche/Genentech patent. Schering-Plough entered into an
    agreement with Roche as part of settlement of the interference.
    The first of the Roche/Genentech patents was issued on
    November 19, 2002 and has a seventeen-year term. In March
    2008, we were issued an alpha interferon patent in Canada which
    triggered Schering-Plough s obligation to pay us additional
    royalties on sales of alpha interferon products in Canada until
    expiration of the patent in 2025.

Recombinant
    Hepatitis B Antigens   

We have obtained numerous patents in countries around the world,
    including in the U.S. and in Europe, covering the
    recombinant production of hepatitis B surface, core and
     e  antigens. We have licensed our recombinant
    hepatitis B antigen patent rights to manufacturers and marketers
    of hepatitis B vaccines and diagnostic test kits, and receive
    royalties on sales of the vaccines and test kits by our
    licensees, as described above under  Principal Licensed
    Products.  The obligation of GlaxoSmithKline and Merck to
    pay royalties on sales of hepatitis

11

Table of Contents   

B vaccines and the obligation of our other licensees under our
    hepatitis B patents to pay royalties on sales of diagnostic
    products will terminate upon expiration of our hepatitis B
    patents in each licensed country. Following the conclusion of a
    successful interference proceeding in the United States, we were
    granted patents in the United States expiring in 2018. These
    patents claim hepatitis B virus polypeptides and vaccines and
    diagnostics containing such polypeptides. Our European hepatitis
    B patents expired at the end of 1999 and have also since expired
    in those countries in which we have obtained supplementary
    protection certificates. See  Item 3   Legal
    Proceedings  for a description of our litigation with
    Classen Immunotherapies, Inc.

TYSABRI   

We are developing TYSABRI in collaboration with Elan. TYSABRI is
    presently claimed in a number of pending patent applications and
    issued patents held by both companies in the United States and
    abroad. These patent applications and patents cover the protein,
    DNA encoding the protein, manufacturing methods and
    pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of
    treatment using the product. In the United States the principal
    patents covering the product and methods of manufacturing the
    product generally expire between 2014 and 2020, subject to any
    available patent term extensions. In the remainder of the world
    patents on the product and methods of manufacturing the product
    generally expire between 2014 and 2016, subject to any
    supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained. Both
    companies have method of treatment patents for a variety of
    indications including the treatment of MS and Crohn s
    disease and treatments of inflammation. These patents expire in
    the United States generally between 2012 and 2020 and outside
    the United States generally between 2012 and 2016, subject to
    any available patent term extensions
     and/or 
    supplemental protection certificates extending such terms.

Trade
    Secrets and Confidential Know-How   

We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, and we cannot assure
    that others will not independently develop substantially
    equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise
    gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or
    that we can meaningfully protect such rights. We require our
    employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators,
    scientists whose research we sponsor and other advisers to
    execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of
    employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements
    provide that all confidential information developed or made
    known to the individual during the course of the
    individual s relationship with us is to be kept
    confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in
    specific circumstances. In the case of our employees, the
    agreement provides that all inventions conceived by such
    employees shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may
    not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our
    trade secrets in the event of use or disclosure of such
    information.

Sales,
    Marketing and Distribution  

Our sales and marketing efforts are generally focused on
    specialist physicians in private practice or at major medical
    centers. We utilize common pharmaceutical company practices to
    market our products and to educate physicians, including sales
    representatives calling on individual physicians,
    advertisements, professional symposia, direct mail, selling
    initiatives, public relations and other methods. We provide
    customer service and other related programs for our products,
    such as disease and product-specific websites, insurance
    research services and order, delivery and fulfillment services.
    We have also established programs in the United States which
    provide qualified uninsured or underinsured patients with
    commercial products at no charge. Additional information about
    our sales, marketing and distribution efforts for each of our
    commercialized products is set forth below.

AVONEX   

We continue to focus our marketing and sales activities on
    maximizing the potential of AVONEX in the United States and
    the rest of world in the face of increased competition. In the
    United States, Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Japan and
    most of the major countries of the EU, we market and sell AVONEX
    through our own sales forces and marketing groups and distribute
    AVONEX principally through wholesale distributors of

12

Table of Contents   

pharmaceutical products, mail order specialty distributors or
    shipping service providers. In other countries, we sell AVONEX
    to distribution partners who are then responsible for most
    marketing and distribution activities.

RITUXAN   

In the United States, we market and sell RITUXAN in
    collaboration with Genentech through dedicated sales and
    marketing staffs. RITUXAN is generally sold to wholesalers,
    specialty distributors and directly to hospital pharmacies.
    Sales efforts are focused on hematologists, medical oncologists
    and rheumatologists in private practice, at community hospitals
    and at major medical centers in the United States. Genentech
    provides marketing support services for RITUXAN including
    customer service, order entry, shipping, billing, insurance
    verification assistance, managed care sales support, medical
    information and sales training.

Outside the United States, Roche markets and sells RITUXAN,
    except in Japan where RITUXAN is co-marketed by Zenyaku and
    Chugai, and we do not participate in these activities.

TYSABRI   

In the United States, we are principally responsible for
    marketing TYSABRI for MS and Elan is principally responsible for
    marketing TYSABRI for Crohn s disease. We and Elan use our
    own respective sales force and marketing group for these
    marketing activities. In addition, Elan is responsible for
    TYSABRI distribution in the United States.

Outside the United States, we are responsible for TYSABRI
    marketing and distribution. We use a combination of our own
    sales force and marketing group and third party service
    providers for these activities.

FUMADERM   

Since May 2007, we have marketed and distributed FUMADERM
    through Almirall Hermal, GmbH, a third party service provider,
    and we will assume marketing and distribution activities from
    Almirall Hermal at the end of February 2009.

Competition  

Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
    is intense and comes from many and varied sources. We do not
    believe that any of the industry leaders can be considered
    dominant in view of the rapid technological change in the
    industry. We experience significant competition from specialized
    biotechnology firms in the United States, the European Union and
    elsewhere in the world and from many large pharmaceutical,
    chemical and other companies. Many of our competitors are
    working to develop products similar to those we are developing
    or already market. Certain of these companies have substantially
    greater financial, marketing, research and development and human
    resources than we do. Most large pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology companies have considerable experience in
    undertaking clinical trials and in obtaining regulatory approval
    to market pharmaceutical products.

We believe that competition and leadership in the industry will
    be based on managerial and technological superiority and
    establishing proprietary positions through research and
    development. Leadership in the industry may also be influenced
    significantly by patents and other forms of protection of
    proprietary information. A key aspect of such competition is
    recruiting and retaining qualified scientists and technicians.
    We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled
    and experienced scientific personnel. The achievement of a
    leadership position also depends largely upon our ability to
    identify and exploit commercially the products resulting from
    research and the availability of adequate financial resources to
    fund facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing,
    manufacturing and marketing.

Competition among products approved for sale may be based, among
    other things, on patent position, product efficacy, safety,
    convenience, reliability, availability and price. In addition,
    early entry of a new pharmaceutical

13

Table of Contents   

product into the market may have important advantages in gaining
    product acceptance and market share. Accordingly, the relative
    speed with which we can develop products, complete the testing
    and approval process and supply commercial quantities of the
    product to the market will have an important impact on our
    competitive position.

We may face increased competitive pressures as a result of the
    emergence of biosimilars. Most of our marketed products,
    including AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, are licensed under the
    Public Health Service Act as biological products. Unlike small
    molecule drugs, which are subject to the generic drug provisions
    (Hatch-Waxman Act) of the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
    Act, there currently is no process in the United States for the
    submission or approval of biological products based upon
    abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to another
    approved product. There is public dialogue at FDA and in the
    Congress, however, regarding the scientific and statutory basis
    upon which such products, known as biosimilars or follow-on
    biologics, could be approved and marketed in the United States.
    We cannot be certain when, or if, Congress will create a
    statutory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. In Europe,
    the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, has issued guidelines
    for approval of biological products through an abbreviated
    pathway, and the first biosimilars have been approved. If a
    biosimilar version of one of our products were approved, it
    could have a negative effect on sales of that product.

AVONEX
    AND TYSABRI   

AVONEX and TYSABRI both compete primarily with three other
    products:

REBIF    

     ( interferon-beta-1a ), which is co-promoted by EMD
    Serono (a subsidiary of Merck Serono) and Pfizer in the United
    States and sold by Merck Serono in Europe. REBIF generated
    worldwide revenues of approximately $1.7 billion in 2007.

BETASERON    

     ( interferon-beta-1b ), sold by Bayer Healthcare
    Pharmaceuticals (the U.S. pharmaceuticals affiliate of
    Bayer Schering Pharma AG) in the United States and sold under
    the name
    BETAFERON   

    by Bayer Schering Pharma AG in the EU.
    EXTAVIA     ,

    a branded version of interferon beta-1b from Novartis AG, has
    been approved in the European Union. BETASERON and BETAFERON
    together generated worldwide revenues of approximately
    $1.4 billion in 2007.

COPAXONE    

     ( glatiramer acetate ), sold by Teva Neuroscience,
    Inc., or Teva, in the United States and copromoted by Teva and
    Sanofi-Aventis in Europe. COPAXONE generated worldwide revenues
    of approximately $1.7 billion in 2007.

Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop
    products to treat MS that may in the future compete with AVONEX
    and TYSABRI. For example, alemtuzumab (marketed by Bayer
    HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc.) is in late-stage development
    for MS. Some of our current competitors are also working to
    develop alternative formulations for delivery of their products,
    which may in the future compete with AVONEX and TYSABRI. For
    example, FTY720 (fingolimod) (developed by Novartis AG) and
    cladribine (developed by Merck Serono) are in late-stage
    development as oral therapies for MS.

AVONEX and TYSABRI also face competition from off-label uses of
    drugs approved for other indications.

RITUXAN
    IN ONCOLOGY   

A number of companies are working to develop products to treat
    B-cell NHLs and other forms of NHL that may ultimately compete
    with RITUXAN. Other potential competitive products include
    CAMPATH   

    (marketed by Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc.), which is
    indicated for B-cell CLL (an unapproved use of RITUXAN),
    VELCADE   

    (marketed by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) which is
    indicated for multiple myeloma (an unapproved use of RITUXAN),
    TREANDA   

    (marketed by Cephalon), and ARZERRA (marketed by GenMab), for
    which a BLA has been submitted to treat patients with refractory
    CLL. In addition to the foregoing products, we are aware of
    other anti-CD20 molecules in development that, if successfully
    developed and registered, may compete with RITUXAN.

14

Table of Contents   

RITUXAN
    IN RA   

RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in
    the RA market, including:

traditional therapies for RA, including disease-modifying
    anti-rheumatic drugs, such as steroids, methotrexate and
    cyclosporine, and pain relievers such as acetaminophen;

TNF inhibitors, such as
    REMICADE   

    (infliximab), a drug sold worldwide by Centocor, Inc., a
    subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson,
    HUMIRA   

    (adalimumab), a drug sold by Abbott Laboratories, and
    ENBREL   

    (etanercept), a drug sold by Amgen, Inc. and Wyeth
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;

ORENCIA   

    (abatacept), a drug developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb
    Company; and

drugs approved for other indications that are used to treat RA.

In addition, a number of companies are working to develop
    products to treat RA that may ultimately compete with RITUXAN in
    the RA marketplace. For example, Roche has submitted a BLA for
    ACTEMRA   

    (tocilizumab) for the treatment of RA.

FUMADERM   

FUMADERM competes with several different types of therapies in
    the psoriasis market, including oral systemics such as
    methotrexate and cyclosporine and biologic agents such as
    RAPTIVA   

    (efalizumab), a drug sold by Genentech.

Regulatory  

Our current and contemplated activities and the products and
    processes that will result from such activities are subject to
    substantial government regulation.

Regulation
    of Pharmaceuticals   

Before new pharmaceutical products may be sold in the United
    States and other countries, clinical trials of the products must
    be conducted and the results submitted to appropriate regulatory
    agencies for approval. Clinical trial programs must establish
    efficacy, determine an appropriate dose and regimen, and define
    the conditions for safe use, a high-risk process that requires
    stepwise clinical studies in which the candidate product must
    successfully meet predetermined endpoints. In the United States,
    the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a product
    are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a Biologics License
    Application, or BLA, or a New Drug Application, or NDA. In
    response to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may grant marketing approval,
    request additional information or deny the application if it
    determines the application does not provide an adequate basis
    for approval. Similar submissions are required by authorities in
    other jurisdictions who independently assess the product and may
    reach the same or different conclusions. Our initial focus for
    obtaining marketing approval outside the United States is
    typically the European Union. There are currently three
    potential tracks for marketing approval in EU countries: mutual
    recognition, decentralized procedures, and centralized
    procedures. These review mechanisms may ultimately lead to
    approval in all EU countries, but each method grants all
    participating countries some decision-making authority in
    product approval.

The receipt of regulatory approval often takes a number of
    years, involving the expenditure of substantial resources and
    depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the
    disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments
    and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. On
    occasion, regulatory authorities may require larger or
    additional studies, leading to unanticipated delay or expense.
    Even after initial FDA approval or approvals from other
    regulatory agencies have been obtained, further clinical trials
    may be required to provide additional data on safety and
    effectiveness and are required to gain clearance for the use of
    a product as a treatment for indications other than those
    initially approved.

15

Table of Contents   

In the United States, the FDA may grant  accelerated
    approval  status to products that treat serious or
    life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful
    therapeutic benefits to patients over existing treatments, but
    accelerated approval status does not ensure that FDA will
    ultimately approve the product. Under this pathway, the FDA may
    approve a product based on surrogate endpoints, or clinical
    endpoints other than survival or irreversible morbidity, or when
    the product is shown to be effective but can be safely used only
    if access to or distribution of the product is restricted. When
    approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints
    other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required
    to conduct additional clinical studies to verify and describe
    clinical benefit. When accelerated approval requires restricted
    use or distribution, the sponsor may be required to establish
    rigorous systems to assure use of the product under safe
    conditions. These systems are usually referred to as Risk
    Minimization Action Plans, or RiskMAPs, or Risk Evaluation and
    Mitigation Strategies, or REMS. In addition, for all products
    approved under accelerated approval, sponsors must submit all
    copies of its promotional materials, including advertisements,
    to the FDA at least thirty days prior to their initial
    dissemination. The FDA may also withdraw approval under
    accelerated approval after a hearing if, for instance,
    post-marketing studies fail to verify any clinical benefit or it
    becomes clear that restrictions on the distribution of the
    product are inadequate to ensure its safe use. The BLA for
    TYSABRI in MS was initially approved under the accelerated
    approval pathway based on surrogate endpoints. A stringent
    restricted distribution program was also imposed. The
    supplemental BLA for TYSABRI for second-line treatment of
    Crohn s disease was approved by FDA on January 14,
    2008. This indication is subject to the same stringent
    distribution restrictions as TYSABRI for MS. We cannot be
    certain that the FDA will approve any products for the proposed
    indications whether under accelerated approval or another
    pathway.

If the FDA or other regulatory agency approves products or new
    indications, the agency may require us to conduct additional
    post-marketing studies. If we fail to conduct the required
    studies or otherwise fail to comply with the conditions of
    accelerated approval, the agency may take action to seek to
    withdraw that approval. Legislation has been passed in the
    United States to also provide the FDA with additional powers of
    sanction regarding non-completion of or non-compliance with
    certain post-marketing commitments, including RiskMAPs/REMS. In
    Europe, the EMEA has new powers of sanction for non-completion
    of post-marketing commitments. These sanctions range from a fine
    of 10% of global product revenue to removal of the product from
    the market.

Regulatory authorities track information on side effects and
    adverse events reported during clinical studies and after
    marketing approval. Non-compliance with FDA safety reporting
    requirements may result in FDA regulatory action that may
    include civil action or criminal penalties. Side effects or
    adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can
    delay, impede, or prevent marketing approval. Similarly, adverse
    events that are reported after marketing approval can result in
    additional limitations being placed on the product s use
    and, potentially, withdrawal or suspension of the product from
    the market. For example, in February 2005, in consultation with
    the FDA, we and Elan voluntarily suspended the marketing and
    commercial distribution of TYSABRI, and informed physicians that
    they should suspend dosing of TYSABRI until further
    notification. These decisions were based on reports of cases of
    PML that occurred in patients treated with TYSABRI in clinical
    studies. PML is a rare and frequently fatal demyelinating
    disease of the central nervous system. In July 2006, TYSABRI was
    reintroduced in the United States, and introduced in the
    European Union, as a monotherapy for relapsing MS.

The FDA also has authority over drug products after approval.
    The FDA may conduct post-marketing safety surveillance and may
    require additional post-approval studies or clinical trials and
    mandate label changes as a result of safety findings. These
    requirements may affect our ability to maintain marketing
    approval of our products or require us to make significant
    expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals.

If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such
    as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing
    changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain
    ingredients or components, we will need review and approval of
    regulatory authorities, including the FDA and EMEA, before the
    changes can be implemented.

In addition, the FDA regulates all advertising and promotion
    activities for products under its jurisdiction both prior to and
    after approval. A company can make only those claims relating to
    safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. However,
    physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that
    are not described in the drug s labeling and that differ
    from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label
    uses are common across medical specialties, and often reflect a
    physician s belief that the off-label use is the best
    treatment for patients. The

16

Table of Contents   

FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice
    of treatments, but the FDA regulations do impose stringent
    restrictions on manufacturers  communications regarding
    off-label uses. Failure to comply with applicable FDA
    requirements may subject a company to adverse publicity,
    enforcement action by the FDA, corrective advertising, and the
    full range of civil and criminal penalties available to the FDA.

Good manufacturing practices.   The FDA, the
    EMEA and other regulatory agencies regulate and inspect
    equipment, facilities, and processes used in the manufacturing
    of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to approving a
    product. If, after receiving clearance from regulatory agencies,
    a company makes a material change in manufacturing equipment,
    location, or process, additional regulatory review and approval
    may be required. We also must adhere to current Good
    Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and product-specific
    regulations enforced by the FDA following product approval. The
    FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory agencies also conduct
    regular, periodic visits to re-inspect equipment, facilities,
    and processes following the initial approval of a product. If,
    as a result of these inspections, it is determined that our
    equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with
    applicable regulations and conditions of product approval,
    regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or administrative
    sanctions
     and/or 
    remedies against us, including the suspension of our
    manufacturing operations.

Orphan Drug Act.   Under the U.S. Orphan
    Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs
    intended to treat a  rare disease or condition,  which
    generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than
    200,000 individuals in the U.S. If a product which has an orphan
    drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval
    for the indication for which it has such designation, the
    product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not
    approve any other applications to market the same drug for the
    same indication for a period of seven years following marketing
    approval, except in certain very limited circumstances, such as
    if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the
    orphan product. Legislation similar to the Orphan Drug Act has
    been enacted in other countries outside of the United States,
    including the European Union.

Regulation Pertaining
    to Sales, Marketing and Product Pricing   

In the United States, the federal government regularly considers
    reforming health care coverage and costs. For example, reforms
    to Medicare have reduced the reimbursement rates for many of our
    products. Effective January 1, 2005, Medicare pays
    physicians and suppliers that furnish our products under a
    payment methodology using average sales price, or ASP,
    information. Manufacturers, including us, are required to
    provide ASP information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
    Services on a quarterly basis. The manufacturer-submitted
    information is used to compute Medicare payment rates, which are
    set at ASP plus 6 percent and updated quarterly. There is a
    mechanism for comparison of such payment rates to widely
    available market prices, which could cause further decreases in
    Medicare payment rates, although this mechanism has yet to be
    utilized. Effective January 1, 2006, Medicare began to use
    the same ASP plus 6 percent payment methodology to
    determine Medicare rates paid for products furnished by hospital
    outpatient departments. As of January 1, 2009, the
    reimbursement rate in the hospital outpatient setting is ASP
    plus 4 percent. If a manufacturer is found to have made a
    misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the statute provides
    for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each
    misrepresentation and for each day in which the
    misrepresentation was applied.

Another payment reform is the addition of an expanded
    prescription drug benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries known
    as Medicare Part D. This is a voluntary benefit that is
    being implemented through private plans under contractual
    arrangements with the federal government. Like pharmaceutical
    coverage through private health insurance, Part D plans
    establish formularies that govern the drugs and biologicals that
    will be offered and the out- of-pocket obligations for such
    products. In addition, plans negotiate discounts from drug
    manufacturers and pass on some of those savings to Medicare
    beneficiaries.

Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or
    future legislation may have a significant effect on our
    business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products may
    depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the
    costs of our products and related treatments will be available
    in the United States and worldwide from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists as to the
    reimbursement status of newly approved health care products by
    third party payors.

17

Table of Contents   

We also participate in the Medicaid rebate program established
    by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and under
    multiple subsequent amendments of that law. Sections 6001,
    6002, and 6003 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA,
    made significant changes to the Medicaid prescription drug
    provisions of the Social Security Act. These changes include,
    but are not limited to, revising the definition of average
    manufacturer price, or AMP, establishing an obligation to report
    AMP on a monthly basis, in addition to a quarterly basis,
    establishing a new formula for calculating Federal upper limits,
    or FULs, requiring rebates for certain physician-administered
    drugs, and clarifying rebate liability for authorized generic
    drugs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for
    each unit of product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the
    rebate for each product is set by law as the larger of 15.1% of
    AMP or the difference between AMP and the best price available
    from us to any commercial or non-governmental customer. The
    rebate amount must be adjusted upward where the AMP for a
    product s first full quarter of sales, when adjusted for
    increases in the CPI-U, or Consumer Price Index  
    Urban, exceeds the AMP for the current quarter with the upward
    adjustment equal to the excess amount. The rebate amount is
    required to be recomputed each quarter based on our report of
    current AMP and best price for each of our products to the
    Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The terms of our
    participation in the program imposes a requirement for us to
    report revisions to AMP or best price within a period not to
    exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data was
    originally due. Any such revisions could have the impact of
    increasing or decreasing our rebate liability for prior
    quarters, depending on the direction of the revision. In
    addition, if we were found to have knowingly submitted false
    information to the government, the statute provides for civil
    monetary penalties in the amount not to exceed $100,000 per item
    of false information in addition to other penalties available to
    the government.

The availability of federal funds to pay for our products under
    the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we
    extend discounts under the 340B/PHS drug pricing program. The
    340B/PHS drug pricing program extends discounts to a variety of
    community health clinics and other entities that receive health
    services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a
    disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries.

We also make our products available for purchase by authorized
    users of the Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, of the General
    Services Administration pursuant to our FSS contract with the
    Department of Veterans Affairs. Under the Veterans Health Care
    Act of 1992, or the VHC Act, we are required to offer deeply
    discounted FSS contract pricing to four Federal
    agencies   the Department of Veterans Affairs, the
    Department of Defense, the Coast Guard and the Public Health
    Service (including the Indian Health Service)   for
    federal funding to be made available for reimbursement of any of
    our products under the Medicaid program and for our products to
    be eligible to be purchased by those four Federal agencies and
    certain Federal grantees. FSS pricing to those four Federal
    agencies must be equal to or less than the  Federal Ceiling
    Price,  which is, at a minimum, 24% off the Non-Federal
    Average Manufacturer Price, or  Non-FAMP , for the
    prior fiscal year. In addition, if we are found to have
    knowingly submitted false information to the government, the VHC
    provides for civil monetary penalties of not to exceed $100,000
    per false item of information in addition to other penalties
    available to the government.

We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining
    to health care  fraud and abuse,  including
    anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws
    make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit,
    offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to
    induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or
    prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the
    statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of
    regulations and very few court decisions addressing industry
    practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged
    under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit
    anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be
    presented for payment to third party payors (including Medicare
    and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are
    false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided
    as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or
    services. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of
    our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.
    Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal
     and/or  civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well
    as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care
    programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government
    were to allege or convict us of violating these laws, our
    business could be harmed. In addition, there is an ability for
    private individuals to bring similar actions. For a description
    of litigation in this area in which we are currently involved,
    see Note 19, Litigation, in  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. 

18

Table of Contents   

Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons
    discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the
    increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement
    authorities. Further, there are an increasing number of state
    laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on
    pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
    ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws.
    Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our
    reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of
    the pertinent state authorities.

Other
    Regulations   

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.   We are also
    subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which
    prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to
    pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any
    foreign government official, government staff member, political
    party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain
    business or to otherwise influence a person working in an
    official capacity.

NIH Guidelines.   We conduct relevant research
    at all of our research facilities in the United States in
    compliance with the current U.S. National Institutes of
    Health Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA
    Molecules, or the NIH Guidelines, and all other applicable
    federal and state regulations. By local ordinance, we are
    required to, among other things, comply with the NIH Guidelines
    in relation to our facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
    San Diego, California, and Research Triangle Park, North
    Carolina, and are required to operate pursuant to certain
    permits.

Other Laws.   Our present and future business
    has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws
    and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations
    relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the
    experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage,
    movement, import and export and use and disposal of hazardous or
    potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive
    compounds and infectious disease agents, used in connection with
    our research work are or may be applicable to our activities.
    Certain agreements entered into by us involving exclusive
    license rights may be subject to national or supranational
    antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which also cannot be
    predicted. The extent of government regulation, which might
    result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot
    accurately be predicted.

Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials  

We are focused on the manufacture of biologics. We currently
    produce all of our bulk AVONEX, as well as AMEVIVE on a contract
    basis for Astellas, at our manufacturing facilities located in
    Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and Cambridge,
    Massachusetts. We currently produce TYSABRI at our Research
    Triangle Park facility. We supply the commercial requirements of
    the antibody for ZEVALIN on a contract basis for Cell
    Therapeutics, Inc. We manufacture ZEVALIN at our manufacturing
    facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Genentech is responsible
    for all worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk RITUXAN and
    has sourced the manufacturing of certain bulk RITUXAN
    requirements to an independent third party. We manufacture
    clinical products in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and
    Cambridge, Massachusetts. Our existing licensed manufacturing
    facilities operate under multiple licenses from the FDA,
    regulatory authorities in the EU and other regulatory
    authorities. We use a third party to manufacture the active
    pharmaceutical ingredient of FUMADERM and another third party to
    further process that to produce the FUMADERM pill. The chart
    below outlines the location of our primary manufacturing
    locations and products manufactured therein:

Research 

Triangle 

Product 

Park 

Cambridge 

Third Party 

AVONEX  

X

X

TYSABRI  

X

AMEVIVE  X

ZEVALIN  

X

FUMADERM  

X

CLINICAL PRODUCTS  

X

X

X

19

Table of Contents   

We are constructing a large-scale biologic manufacturing
    facility in Hiller d, Denmark to be used to manufacture
    TYSABRI and other products in our pipeline. The first phase is
    complete, which included construction of a labeling and
    packaging facility, administrative building and lab facility;
    installation of major equipment; and partial completion of a
    bulk manufacturing facility. The second phase of the project,
    which we commenced in January 2007, involves the completion and
    fit out of the bulk manufacturing facility and construction of a
    warehouse. The large scale manufacturing facility is expected to
    be ready for commercial production in 2010. See the section of
     Item 1A   Risk Factors  entitled
     We have made a significant investment in constructing a
    manufacturing facility the success of which depends upon the
    completion and licensing of the facility and continued demand
    for our products. 

We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw materials and
    supplies required for the production of AVONEX, TYSABRI,
    FUMADERM, ZEVALIN and AMEVIVE are available from various
    suppliers in quantities adequate to meet our needs. However, due
    to the unique nature of the production of our products, we do
    have single source providers of several raw materials. We make
    efforts to qualify new vendors and to develop contingency plans
    so that production is not impacted by short-term issues
    associated with single source providers. Each of our third party
    service providers, suppliers and manufacturers are subject to
    continuing inspection by the FDA or comparable agencies in other
    jurisdictions. Any delay, interruption or other issues that
    arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of
    our products, including as a result of a failure of our
    facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to
    pass any regulatory agency inspection, could significantly
    impair our ability to sell our products.

While we believe that our existing manufacturing facilities and
    outside sources will allow us to meet our near-term and
    long-term manufacturing needs for our current commercial
    products and our other products currently in clinical trials,
    additional manufacturing facilities and outside sources may be
    required to meet our long-term research, development and
    commercial production needs. See the sections of
     Item 1A   Risk Factors  entitled
     Problems with manufacturing or with inventory planning
    could result in our inability to deliver products, inventory
    shortages or surpluses, product recalls and increased
    costs ,  We rely on third parties to provide services
    in connection with the manufacture of our products and, in some
    instances, the manufacture of the product itself,  and
     If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of
    governmental regulation in the manufacture of our products, we
    could incur substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales. 

Our
    Employees  

As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    4,700 employees.

Our
    Executive Officers  

The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages as
    of February 6, 2009 and their principal positions.

Name 

Age 

Position 

James C. Mullen

50

Chief Executive Officer and President

Cecil B. Pickett, Ph.D. 

63

President, Research and Development

Hans Peter Hasler

53

Chief Operating Officer

Susan H. Alexander, Esq. 

52

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Paul J. Clancy

47

Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Robert A. Hamm

57

Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations  
    Technology

Michael F. MacLean

43

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. 

61

Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications

20

Table of Contents   

Reference to  our  or  us  in the following
    descriptions of the background of our executive officers include
    Biogen Idec and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation.

James C. Mullen  is our Chief Executive Officer and
    President and is a director, and has served in these positions
    since the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation, or the merger, in November 2003.
    Mr. Mullen was formerly Chairman of the Board and Chief
    Executive Officer of Biogen, Inc. He was named Chairman of the
    Board of Directors of Biogen, Inc. in July 2002, after being
    named Chief Executive Officer and President of Biogen, Inc. in
    June 2000. Mr. Mullen joined Biogen, Inc. in 1989 as
    Director, Facilities and Engineering. He was named Biogen,
    Inc. s Vice President, Operations in 1992. From 1996 to
    1999, Mr. Mullen served as Vice President, International,
    with responsibility for building all Biogen, Inc. operations
    outside North America. From 1984 to 1988, Mr. Mullen held
    various positions at SmithKline Beckman Corporation (now
    GlaxoSmithKline plc). Mr. Mullen is a member of the board
    of directors and executive committee of the Biotechnology
    Industry Organization, or BIO, and is a former chairman of the
    board of BIO. Mr. Mullen is also a director of PerkinElmer,
    Inc.

Cecil B. Pickett Ph.D.  is our President, Research and
    Development and has served in that position since September 2006
    and has served as one of our directors since September 2006.
    Prior to joining Biogen Idec, he was Corporate Senior Vice
    President and President, Schering-Plough Research Institute from
    March 2002 to September 2006, and before that he was Executive
    VP of Discovery Research at Schering-Plough Corporation from
    September 1993 to March 2002. Mr. Pickett is a member of
    the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
    Mr. Pickett is a director of Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

Hans Peter Hasler  has served as our Chief Operating
    Officer since May 2008, served as our Executive Vice President,
    Global Neurology, Head of International from October 2007 to May
    2008, and has managed our international business since the
    merger. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Head of
    International from November 2003 to October 2007. He served as
    Executive Vice President   International of Biogen,
    Inc. from July 2003 until the merger, and joined Biogen, Inc as
    Executive Vice President   Commercial Operations in
    August 2001. Mr. Hasler joined Biogen, Inc. from
    Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Inc., an affiliate of American
    Home Products, Inc. (AHP), where he served as Senior Vice
    President, Head of Global Strategic Marketing from 1998 to 2001.
    Mr. Hasler was a member of the Wyeth/AHP Executive
    Committee and was chairman of the Commercial Council. From 1993
    to 1998, Mr. Hasler served in a variety of senior
    management capacities for Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals,
    including Managing Director of Wyeth Group, Germany, and General
    Manager of Wyeth/AHP in Switzerland and Central Eastern Europe.
    Prior to joining Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Mr. Hasler
    served as the Head of Pharma Division at Abbott AG.
    Mr. Hasler is a director of Acino Holding AG and Santhera
    Pharmaceuticals Holding AG.

Susan H. Alexander  is our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation since
    September 2003. From June 2001 to September 2003,
    Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel of IONA
    Technologies. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander served as
    Counsel at Cabot Corporation from January 1995 to May 2001.
    Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner at the law firms
    of Hinckley, Allen   Snyder and Fine  
    Ambrogne.

Paul J. Clancy  is our Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer and has served in that position
    since August 2007. Mr. Clancy joined Biogen Idec in 2001,
    and has held several senior executive positions, including Vice
    President of Business Planning, Portfolio Management and
    U.S. Marketing, and Senior Vice President of Finance with
    responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax, Investor
    Relations and Business Planning groups. Prior to joining Biogen
    Idec, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, serving in a range of
    financial and general management positions.

Robert A. Hamm  is our Executive Vice President,
    Pharmaceutical Operations   Technology, and has served
    in that position since October 2007. Previously, Mr. Hamm
    served as Senior Vice President, Neurology Strategic Business
    Unit from January 2006 to October 2007; Senior Vice President,
    Immunology Business Unit from the merger in November 2003 until
    January 2006; and in the same capacity with Biogen, Inc. from
    November 2002 to November 2003. Before that, he served as Senior
    Vice President   Europe, Africa, Canada and Middle
    East from October 2001 to November 2002. Prior to that,
    Mr. Hamm served as Vice President   Sales and
    Marketing of

21

Table of Contents   

Biogen, Inc. from October 2000 to October 2001. Mr. Hamm
    previously served as Vice President   Manufacturing
    from June 1999 to October 2000, Director, Northern Europe and
    Distributors from November 1996 until June 1999 and Associate
    Director, Logistics from April 1994 until November 1996. From
    1987 until April 1994, Mr. Hamm held a variety of
    management positions at Syntex Laboratories Corporation,
    including Director of Operations and New Product Planning, and
    Manager of Materials, Logistics and Contract Manufacturing.
    Mr. Hamm is a director of Inhibitex, Inc. and Progenitor
    Cell Therapy, LLC.

Michael F. MacLean  is our Senior Vice President and Chief
    Accounting Officer and has served in that position since
    December 2006. Mr. MacLean joined us in October 2006 as
    Senior Vice President. Prior to joining us, Mr. MacLean was
    a managing director of Huron Consulting, where he provided
    support regarding financial reporting to management and boards
    of directors of Fortune 500 companies. From June 2002 to
    October 2005, Mr. MacLean was a partner at KPMG and he was
    a partner of Arthur Andersen LLP from September 1999 to
    May 2002.

Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D.  is our Executive Vice
    President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and Communications
    and has served in that position since October 2007. Prior to
    that he was Executive Vice President, Human Resources from
    November 2003 to October 2007. Mr. Schneier served as
    Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Biogen, Inc., a
    position he held from January 2003 until the merger. He joined
    Biogen, Inc. in 2001 as Senior Vice President, Strategic
    Organization Design and Effectiveness, after having served as an
    external consultant to us for eight years. Prior to joining
    Biogen, Inc., Mr. Schneier was president of his own
    management consulting firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided
    consulting services to over 70 of the Fortune
    100 companies, as well as several of the largest European
    and Asian firms. Mr. Schneier held a tenured professorship
    at the University of Maryland s Smith School of Business
    and has held teaching positions at the business schools of the
    University of Michigan, Columbia University, and at the Tuck
    School of Business, Dartmouth College.

22

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

We are
    substantially dependent on revenues from our two principal
    products.   

Our current and future revenues depend substantially upon
    continued sales of our two principal products, AVONEX and
    RITUXAN, which represented approximately 81% of our total
    revenues in 2008. Any significant negative developments relating
    to these two products, such as safety or efficacy issues, the
    introduction or greater acceptance of competing products or
    adverse regulatory or legislative developments, would have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although
    we have developed and continue to develop additional products
    for commercial introduction, we expect to be substantially
    dependent on sales from these two products for many years. A
    decline in sales from either of these two products would
    adversely affect our business.

Our
    near-term success depends on the market acceptance and
    successful sales growth of TYSABRI.   

A substantial portion of our growth in the near-term is
    dependent on anticipated sales of TYSABRI. TYSABRI is expected
    to diversify our product offerings and revenues, and to drive
    additional revenue growth over the next several years. If we are
    not successful in growing sales of TYSABRI, it would result in a
    significant reduction in diversification and expected revenues
    and adversely affect our business.

Achievement of anticipated sales growth of TYSABRI will depend
    upon its acceptance by the medical community and patients, which
    cannot be certain given the significant restrictions on use and
    the significant safety warnings in the label. Since the
    reintroduction of TYSABRI in the United States and its
    introduction in the European Union in July 2006, we have
    disclosed five confirmed cases of PML, a known side effect, in
    patients taking TYSABRI. The occurrence of PML or the occurrence
    of other side effects could harm acceptance and limit TYSABRI
    sales or result in a withdrawal of TYSABRI from the market.
    Additional regulatory restrictions on the use of TYSABRI and
    safety-related labeling changes, whether as a result of reports
    of cases of PML or otherwise, may significantly reduce expected
    revenues and require significant expense and management time to
    address the associated legal and regulatory issues, including
    enhanced risk management programs. A significant reduction in
    the acceptance of TYSABRI by the medical community or patients
    would materially and adversely affect our growth and our plans
    for the future.

As a relatively new entrant to a maturing MS market, TYSABRI
    sales may be more sensitive to additional new competing
    products. A number of such products are expected to be approved
    for use in MS in the coming years. If these products have a
    similar or more attractive overall profile in terms of efficacy,
    convenience and safety, future sales of TYSABRI could be limited.

Our
    long-term success depends upon the successful development and
    commercialization of other products from our research and
    development activities.   

Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the
    successful development and commercialization of other products
    from our research and development activities. Product
    development and commercialization are very expensive and involve
    a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and
    development programs result in the commercialization of a
    product. Success in early stage clinical trials or preclinical
    work does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical
    trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials
    are successful, the risk remains that unexpected concerns may
    arise from additional data or analysis or that obstacles may
    arise or issues may be identified in connection with review of
    clinical data with regulatory authorities or that regulatory
    authorities may disagree with our view of the data or require
    additional data or information or additional studies.

Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and
    expensive process. Our ability to complete our clinical trials
    in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key
    factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional
    review board approval, the rate of patient enrollment in
    clinical trials, and compliance with extensive current good
    clinical practice requirements. We have recently opened clinical
    sites and are enrolling patients in a number of new countries
    where our experience is more limited, and we are in many cases
    using the services of third-party contract clinical trial
    providers. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution
    and

23

Table of Contents   

regulatory aspects of our large, complex and diverse clinical
    trials, our studies and ultimately our regulatory approvals may
    be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product
    candidates altogether.

Adverse
    safety events can negatively affect our assets, product sales,
    operations, products in development and stock
    price.   

Even after we receive marketing approval for a product, adverse
    event reports may have a negative impact on our
    commercialization efforts. Later discovery of safety issues with
    our products that were not known at the time of their approval
    by the FDA could cause product liability events, additional
    regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling,
    withdrawal of products from the market and the imposition of
    fines or criminal penalties. Any of these actions could result
    in, among other things, material write-offs of inventory and
    impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and fixed assets. In
    addition, the reporting of adverse safety events involving our
    products and public rumors about such events could cause our
    stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility.

If we
    fail to compete effectively, our business and market position
    would suffer.   

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry is intensely
    competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our
    products, the development of new products and processes, the
    acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential
    and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with
    biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater
    number of products on the market, greater financial and other
    resources and other technological or competitive advantages. We
    cannot be certain that one or more of our competitors will not
    receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely
    affects our product development or business, will not benefit
    from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities, or
    will not develop products that are accepted more widely than
    ours. The introduction of alternatives to our products that
    offer advantages in efficacy, safety or ease of use could
    negatively affect our revenues and reduce the value of our
    product development efforts. In addition, potential governmental
    action in the future could provide a means for competition from
    developers of follow-on biologics, which could compete on price
    and differentiation with products that we now or could in the
    future market.

In addition to competing directly with products that are
    marketed by substantial pharmaceutical competitors, AVONEX,
    RITUXAN and TYSABRI also face competition from off-label uses of
    drugs approved for other indications. Some of our current
    competitors are also working to develop alternative formulations
    for delivery of their products, which may in the future compete
    with ours.

We
    depend, to a significant extent, on reimbursement from third
    party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement
    could negatively affect our product sales and
    revenue.   

Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the
    availability and extent of reimbursement from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Changes in government regulations or private
    third-party payors  reimbursement policies may reduce
    reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future
    results.

In the United States, at both the federal and state levels, the
    government regularly proposes legislation to reform healthcare
    and its cost, and such proposals have received increasing
    political attention. In the last few years, there have been a
    number of legislative changes that have affected the
    reimbursement for our products, including, but not limited to,
    the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
    of 2003 and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. The Deficit
    Reduction Act made significant changes to the Medicaid
    prescription drug provisions of the Social Security Act,
    including changes that impose the monthly reporting of price
    information and that may have an impact on the Medicaid rebates
    we pay. In addition, states may more aggressively seek Medicaid
    rebates as a result of legislation enacted in 2006, which rebate
    activity could adversely affect our results of operations.

Managed care organizations as well as Medicaid and other
    government health administration authorities continue to seek
    price discounts. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses
    may continue to increase the use of managed care organizations.
    This may result in managed care organizations influencing
    prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population
    and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for
    our products.

24

Table of Contents   

In addition, some states have implemented and other states are
    considering price controls or patient-access constraints under
    the Medicaid program and some states are considering
    price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of
    their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. Other matters
    also could be the subject of U.S. federal or state
    legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our
    business, including the importation of prescription drugs that
    are marketed outside the United States and sold at lower prices
    as a result of drug price limitations imposed by the governments
    of various foreign countries.

We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    other countries. In the EU and some other international markets,
    the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and
    regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or
    reimbursement levels to control costs for the
    government-sponsored health care system. This international
    system of price regulations may lead to inconsistent prices.
    Within the EU and other countries, some third party trade in our
    products occurs from markets with lower prices thereby
    undermining our sales in some markets with higher prices.
    Additionally, certain countries reference the prices in other
    countries where our products are marketed. Thus, inability to
    secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair
    our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and
    potential new markets. This may create the opportunity for the
    third party cross border trade previously mentioned or influence
    our decision to sell or not to sell the product thus affecting
    our geographic expansion plans.

When a new medical product is approved, the availability of
    government and private reimbursement for that product is
    uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be
    reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of
    reimbursement for our product candidates.

We
    depend on collaborators for both product and royalty revenue and
    the clinical development of future collaboration products, which
    are outside of our full control.   

Collaborations between companies on products or programs are a
    common business practice in the biotechnology industry.
    Out-licensing typically allows a partner to collect up front
    payments and future milestone payments, share the costs of
    clinical development and risk of failure at various points, and
    access sales and marketing infrastructure and expertise in
    exchange for certain financial rights to the product or program
    going to the in-licensing partner. In addition, the obligation
    of in-licensees to pay royalties or share profits generally
    terminates upon expiration of the related patents. We have a
    number of collaborators and partners, and have both in-licensed
    and out-licensed several products and programs. These
    collaborations include several risks:

we are not fully in control of the royalty or profit sharing
    revenues we receive from collaborators, and we cannot be certain
    of the timing or potential impact of factors including patent
    expirations, pricing or health care reforms, other legal and
    regulatory developments, failure of our partners to comply with
    applicable laws and regulatory requirements, the introduction of
    competitive products, and new indication approvals which may
    affect the sales of collaboration products;

where we copromote and co-market products with our collaboration
    partners, any failure on their part to comply with applicable
    laws in the sale and marketing of our products could have an
    adverse effect on our revenues as well as involve us in possible
    legal proceedings; and

collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and
    failure to do so effectively could have an adverse impact on
    product sales by our collaborators and partners, and could
    adversely affect the clinical development of shared products or
    programs under joint control.

In addition, under our collaboration agreement with Genentech,
    the successful development and commercialization of the first
    anti-CD20 product acquired or developed by Genentech will
    decrease our percentage of co-promotion profits of the
    collaboration.

If we
    do not successfully execute our growth initiatives through the
    acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products,
    technologies or companies, our future performance could be
    adversely affected.   

In addition to the expansion of our pipeline through spending on
    internal development projects, we anticipate growing through
    external growth opportunities, which include the acquisition,
    partnering and in-licensing of products, technologies and
    companies or the entry into strategic alliances and
    collaborations. If we are unable to

25

Table of Contents   

complete or manage these external growth opportunities
    successfully, we may not be able to grow our business in the way
    that we currently expect. The availability of high quality
    opportunities is limited and we are not certain that we will be
    able to identify suitable candidates or complete transactions on
    terms that are acceptable to us. In order to pursue such
    opportunities, we may require significant additional financing,
    which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.
    The availability of such financing is limited by the recent
    tightening of the global credit markets. In addition, even if we
    are able to successfully identify and complete acquisitions, we
    may not be able to integrate them or take full advantage of them
    and therefore may not realize the benefits that we expect. If we
    are unsuccessful in our external growth program, we may not be
    able to grow our business significantly and we may incur asset
    impairment charges as a result of acquisitions that are not
    successful.

If we
    fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory
    requirements affecting the healthcare industry, we could face
    increased costs, penalties and a loss of business.   

Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators and
    third party providers, are subject to extensive government
    regulation and oversight both in the United States and in
    foreign jurisdictions. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations
    alleging violations of government regulation, including claims
    asserting submission of incorrect pricing information,
    impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products,
    payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state
    healthcare business, submission of false claims for government
    reimbursement, antitrust violations, or violations related to
    environmental matters. Violations of governmental regulation may
    be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines
    and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in
    government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. In
    addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we
    could be required to repay amounts we received from government
    payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found
    to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted
    to the government. Whether or not we have complied with the law,
    an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase
    our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and
    attention and adversely affect our business.

If we
    fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental
    regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur
    substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales.   

We and our third party providers are generally required to
    maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or
    cGMP, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable
    agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any
    changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of
    manufacturing require amending our application to the FDA and
    acceptance of the change by the FDA prior to release of product
    to the marketplace. Our inability, or the inability of our third
    party service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance
    could require us to withdraw or recall product and interrupt
    commercial supply of our products. Any delay, interruption or
    other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish,
    packaging, or storage of our products as a result of a failure
    of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third
    parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could
    significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize
    our products. This non-compliance could increase our costs,
    cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our
    reputation.

Changes
    in laws affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect
    our revenues and profitability.   

We and our collaborators and third party providers operate in a
    highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may
    adversely affect our business, operations or financial
    condition, including:

new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new
    interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions,
    related to health care availability, method of delivery and
    payment for health care products and services;

changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes
    that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
    result in lost market opportunity;

changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require
    additional safety monitoring after the introduction of our
    products to market, which could increase our costs of doing
    business and adversely affect the future permitted uses of
    approved products;

26

Table of Contents   

new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing
    or marketing practices; and

changes in the tax laws relating to our operations.

The enactment in the United States of the Medicare Prescription
    Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, possible
    legislation which could ease the entry of competing follow-on
    biologics in the marketplace, and importation of lower-cost
    competing drugs from other jurisdictions are examples of changes
    and possible changes in laws that could adversely affect our
    business. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration
    Amendments Act of 2007 included new authorization for the FDA to
    require post-market safety monitoring, along with a clinical
    trials registry, and expanded authority for FDA to impose civil
    monetary penalties on companies that fail to meet certain
    commitments.

Problems
    with manufacturing or with inventory planning could result in
    our inability to deliver products, inventory shortages or
    surpluses, product recalls and increased costs.   

We manufacture and expect to continue to manufacture our own
    commercial requirements of bulk AVONEX and TYSABRI. Our products
    are difficult to manufacture and problems in our manufacturing
    processes can occur. Our inability to successfully manufacture
    bulk product and to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals of
    our manufacturing facilities would harm our ability to produce
    timely sufficient quantities of commercial supplies of AVONEX
    and TYSABRI to meet demand. Problems with manufacturing
    processes could result in product defects or manufacturing
    failures that could require us to delay shipment of products or
    recall or withdraw products previously shipped, which could
    result in inventory write-offs and impair our ability to expand
    into new markets or supply products in existing markets. In the
    past, we have had to write down and incur other charges and
    expenses for products that failed to meet specifications.
    Similar charges may occur in the future. In addition, lower than
    expected demand for our products, including suspension of sales,
    or a change in product mix may result in less than optimal
    utilization of our manufacturing facilities and lower inventory
    turnover, which could result in abnormal manufacturing variance
    charges, facility impairment charges and charges for excess and
    obsolete inventory.

We rely solely on our manufacturing facility in Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina, or RTP, for the production of
    TYSABRI. We have applied to the FDA and the EMEA for approval of
    a production process, known as a second generation high-titer
    process, which has higher yields of TYSABRI than the process we
    currently use. Approval has been granted by the EMEA, but is
    still pending from the FDA. If we do not obtain approval for
    that process, we may need to increase our capital spending to
    add capacity at our RTP manufacturing facility and at the
    Hiller d, Denmark facility we are completing to meet demand
    for TYSABRI. Such an increase in capital spending would affect
    our business, cash position and results of operations.

If we cannot produce sufficient commercial requirements of bulk
    product to meet demand, we would need to rely on third party
    contract manufacturers, of which there are only a limited number
    capable of manufacturing bulk products of the type we require.
    We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement on reasonable
    terms, if at all, with those manufacturers. Even if we were to
    reach agreement, the transition of the manufacturing process to
    a third party could take a significant amount of time. Our
    ability to supply products in sufficient capacity to meet demand
    is also dependent upon third party contractors to fill-finish,
    package and store such products. Any prolonged interruption in
    the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities could
    result in cancellations of shipments or loss of product in the
    process of being manufactured. Because our manufacturing
    processes are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA
    approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may
    not be available on a timely basis or at all.

We
    rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, the
    manufacture of the product itself.   

We rely on Genentech for all RITUXAN manufacturing. Genentech
    relies on a third party to manufacture certain bulk RITUXAN
    requirements. If Genentech or any third party upon which it
    relies does not manufacture or fill-finish RITUXAN in sufficient
    quantities and on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if
    Genentech or any third party does not obtain and maintain all
    required manufacturing approvals, our business could be harmed.

We also source all of our fill-finish and the majority of our
    final product storage operations, along with a substantial
    portion of our packaging operations of the components used with
    our products, to a concentrated group of third party
    contractors. The manufacture of products and product components,
    fill-finish, packaging and storage

27

Table of Contents   

of our products require successful coordination among us and
    multiple third party providers. Our inability to coordinate
    these efforts, the lack of capacity available at a third party
    contractor or any other problems with the operations of these
    third party contractors could require us to delay shipment of
    saleable products, recall products previously shipped or impair
    our ability to supply products at all. This could increase our
    costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share, diminish our
    profitability and damage our reputation. Any third party we use
    to fill-finish, package or store our products to be sold in the
    United States must be licensed by the FDA. As a result,
    alternative third party providers may not be readily available
    on a timely basis.

Due to the unique nature of the production of our products,
    there are single source providers of several raw materials. We
    make every effort to qualify new vendors and to develop
    contingency plans so that production is not impacted by
    short-term issues associated with single source providers.
    Nonetheless, our business could be materially impacted by
    long-term or chronic issues associated with single source
    providers.

The
    current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate
    certain risks affecting our business.   

Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on
    reimbursement from government health administration authorities,
    private health insurers, distribution partners and other
    organizations. As a result of the current credit and financial
    market conditions, these organizations may be unable to satisfy
    their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In
    addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce
    Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may
    increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the
    availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect
    our product sales and revenue.

Due to the recent tightening of global credit, there may be a
    disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party
    contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third
    parties for several important aspects of our business, including
    portions of our product manufacturing, royalty revenue, clinical
    development of future collaboration products, conduct of
    clinical trials, and raw materials. If such third parties are
    unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be
    adversely affected.

Our
    portfolio of marketable securities is significant and is subject
    to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce the value of
    our investments.   

We maintain a significant portfolio of marketable securities.
    Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes in the value
    of this portfolio. In particular, the value of our investments
    may be adversely affected by increases in interest rates,
    downgrades in the corporate bonds included in our portfolio,
    instability in the global financial markets that reduces the
    liquidity of securities included in our portfolio, declines in
    the value of collateral underlying the mortgage and asset-backed
    securities included in our portfolio, and by other factors which
    may result in other than temporary declines in value of the
    investments. Each of these events may cause us to record charges
    to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell
    investments for less than our acquisition cost. Although we
    attempt to mitigate risks within our marketable securities
    portfolio with the assistance of our investment advisors by
    investing in high quality securities and continuously monitoring
    the overall risk profile of our portfolio, the value of our
    investments may nevertheless decline.

We
    have made a significant investment in constructing a
    manufacturing facility the success of which depends upon the
    completion and licensing of the facility and continued demand
    for our products.   

We are building a large-scale biologic manufacturing facility in
    Hiller d, Denmark. We anticipate that the facility will be
    ready for commercial production in 2010. If we fail to manage
    the project, or unforeseen events occur, we may incur additional
    costs to complete the project. Depending on the timing of the
    completion and licensing of the facility, and our other
    estimates and assumptions regarding future product sales, the
    carrying value of all or part of the manufacturing facility or
    other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in
    the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value at the
    time that such effects are identified. The recognition of
    impairment in the carrying value, if any, could have a material
    and adverse affect on our results of operations. For example, if
    the anticipated demand for TYSABRI does not materialize, the
    carrying values of our Hiller d, Denmark facility could be
    impaired, which would negatively impact our results of
    operations.

28

Table of Contents   

If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and key
    relationships, the growth of our business could be
    harmed.   

Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon our ability to
    attract and retain qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales
    and marketing and executive personnel and our ability to develop
    and maintain relationships with qualified clinical researchers
    and key distributors. Competition for these people and
    relationships is intense and we compete with numerous
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as with
    universities and non-profit research organizations. Any
    inability we experience to continue to attract and retain
    qualified personnel or develop and maintain key relationships
    could have an adverse effect on our ability to accomplish our
    research, development and external growth objectives.

Our
    sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally.   

We are increasing our presence in international markets, which
    subjects us to many risks, such as:

economic problems that disrupt foreign healthcare payment
    systems;

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

the imposition of governmental controls;

less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;

the inability to obtain any necessary foreign regulatory or
    pricing approvals of products in a timely manner;

restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade
    restrictions;

changes in tax laws and tariffs;

difficulties in staffing and managing international
    operations; and

longer payment cycles.

Our operations and marketing practices are also subject to
    regulation and scrutiny by the governments of the other
    countries in which we operate. In addition, the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits U.S. companies and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or
    retaining business abroad. In many countries, the healthcare
    professionals we regularly interact with meet the definition of
    a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. Additionally, we
    are subject to other U.S. laws in our international
    operations. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws
    could result in various adverse consequences, including possible
    delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls,
    seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, and
    the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions.

A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than
    our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. We recognize
    foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in
    the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result,
    currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the
    currencies in which we do business will affect our operating
    results, often in unpredictable ways.

Our
    business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions
    of activist shareholders.   

During the first half of 2008, we defended against a proxy
    contest waged by Icahn Partners and certain of its affiliates
    that nominated three individuals for election to our Board of
    Directors and proposed amendments to our bylaws at our 2008
    Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Although we were successful in
    having our Board s nominees elected as directors, the proxy
    contest was disruptive to our operations and caused us to incur
    substantial costs. Icahn Partners and certain of its affiliates
    have commenced a proxy contest relating to our 2009 Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders nominating four individuals to our Board
    of Directors, proposing amendments to our bylaws and requesting
    a change in our jurisdiction of incorporation. Our business
    could be adversely affected because:

Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist
    shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our
    operations and diverting the attention of management and our
    employees;

29

Table of Contents   

Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in
    the loss of potential acquisitions, collaborations or
    in-licensing opportunities, and may make it more difficult to
    attract and retain qualified personnel and business
    partners; and

If individuals are elected to our board of directors with a
    specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to
    effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create
    additional value for our stockholders.

Our
    operating results are subject to significant
    fluctuations.   

Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have
    fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly
    in the future due to the timing of charges and expenses that we
    may take. In recent periods, for instance, we have recorded
    charges that include:

impairments that we are required to take with respect to
    investments;

impairments that we are required to take with respect to fixed
    assets, including those that are recorded in connection with the
    sale of fixed assets;

inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges
    for excess
     and/or 
    obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write downs
    relating to product suspensions;

milestone payments under license and collaboration agreements;
    and

the cost of restructurings.

Our revenues are also subject to foreign exchange rate
    fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations.
    Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge
    specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign
    currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may
    not be successful. As a result, changes in currency exchange
    rates may have an adverse impact on our future operating results
    and financial condition. Additionally, our net income may
    fluctuate due to the impact of charges we may be required to
    take with respect to foreign currency hedge transactions. In
    particular, we may incur higher charges from hedge
    ineffectiveness than we expect or from the termination of a
    hedge relationship.

These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including
    those discussed in these  Risk Factors,  could also
    cause fluctuations in our reported earnings. In addition, our
    operating results during any one period do not necessarily
    suggest the anticipated results of future periods.

If we
    are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual
    property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our
    development efforts or our acquired technology.   

We have filed numerous patent applications in the United States
    and various other countries seeking protection of inventions
    originating from our research and development, including a
    number of our processes and products. Patents have been issued
    on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to
    various patents and patent applications under licenses with
    third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us.
    The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded
    to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the
    United States and in other important markets remains
    uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided
    upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these
    countries. Our patents may not afford us substantial protection
    or commercial benefit. Similarly, our pending patent
    applications or patent applications licensed from third parties
    may not ultimately be granted as patents and we may not prevail
    if patents that have been issued to us are challenged in court.
    In addition, pending legislation to reform the patent system
    could also reduce our ability to enforce our patents. We do not
    know when, or if, changes to the U.S. patent system will
    become law. If we are unable to protect our intellectual
    property rights and prevent others from exploiting our
    inventions, we will not derive the benefit from them that we
    currently expect.

30

Table of Contents   

If our
    products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we
    may incur damages and be required to incur the expense of
    obtaining a license.   

A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Competitors
    may have filed applications for, or have been issued patents and
    may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may
    relate to products or processes competitive with or similar to
    our products and processes. Moreover, the patent laws of the
    United States and foreign countries are distinct and decisions
    as to patenting, validity of patents and infringement of patents
    may be resolved differently in different countries. In general,
    we obtain licenses to third party patents that we deem necessary
    or desirable for the manufacture, use and sale of our products.
    We are currently unable to assess the extent to which we may
    wish or be required to acquire rights under such patents and the
    availability and cost of acquiring such rights, or whether a
    license to such patents will be available on acceptable terms or
    at all. There may be patents in the United States or in foreign
    countries or patents issued in the future that are unavailable
    to license on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain such
    licenses may hinder our ability to manufacture and market our
    products.

Uncertainty
    over intellectual property in the biotechnology industry has
    been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and
    unpredictable.   

We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the United States
    and in other countries claiming subject matter potentially
    useful to our business. Some of those patents and patent
    applications claim only specific products or methods of making
    such products, while others claim more general processes or
    techniques useful or now used in the biotechnology industry.
    There is considerable uncertainty within the biotechnology
    industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many
    issued patents in the United States and elsewhere in the world,
    and, to date, there is no consistent policy regarding the
    breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. We cannot
    currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents
    which may be granted to third parties in the future or which
    patents might be asserted to be infringed by the manufacture,
    use and sale of our products.

There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. Litigation and
    administrative proceedings concerning patents and other
    intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and
    distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of
    delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation,
    including any interference proceedings to determine priority of
    inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or
    litigation against our partners, may be costly and time
    consuming and could harm our business. We expect that litigation
    may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and
    scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be
    necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or
    noninfringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could
    adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other
    proprietary rights, or, conversely, hinder our ability to
    manufacture and market our products.

Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation.   

The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical
    studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product
    liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause
    of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or
    may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug
    interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those
    effects until the product or product candidate has been
    administered to patients for a prolonged period of time.

We are subject from time to time to lawsuits based on product
    liability and related claims. We cannot predict with certainty
    the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. We may
    not be successful in defending ourselves in the litigation and,
    as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These
    lawsuits may result in large judgments or settlements against
    us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial
    condition and business. Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive
    to defend, whether or not they have merit, and the defense of
    these actions may divert the attention of our management and
    other resources that would otherwise be engaged in managing our
    business.

31

Table of Contents   

Our
    effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in
    tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been
    accrued.   

As a global biotechnology company, we are subject to taxation in
    numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result,
    our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of
    applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other
    jurisdictions in which we operate. In preparing our financial
    statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become
    payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions
    in which we operate. Our effective tax rate, however, may be
    lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous
    factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from
    country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and
    changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause us to
    experience an effective tax rate significantly different from
    previous periods or our current expectations, which could have
    an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In
    addition, unfavorable results of audits of our tax filings, our
    inability to secure or sustain arrangements with tax
    authorities, and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws
    in jurisdictions in which we operate, among other things, may
    cause us to be obligated to accrue for future tax payments in
    excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements.

Our
    level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business and
    limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our
    business.   

As of December 31, 2008, we had $1,113.1 million of
    outstanding indebtedness, and we may incur additional debt in
    the future. Our level of indebtedness could have significant
    consequences to our business, for example, it could:

increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
    reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes,
    including business development efforts and mergers and
    acquisitions; and

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that may have less debt.

Our
    business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of
    compliance and the risk of contamination or
    injury.   

Our business and the business of several of our strategic
    partners, including Genentech and Elan, involve the controlled
    use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive
    compounds. Biologics manufacturing is extremely susceptible to
    product loss due to contamination, equipment failure, or vendor
    or operator error. Although we believe that our safety
    procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply
    with state and federal standards, there will always be the risk
    of accidental contamination or injury. In addition, microbial or
    viral contamination may cause the closure of a manufacturing
    facility for an extended period of time. By law, radioactive
    materials may only be disposed of at state-approved facilities.
    We currently store radioactive materials from our California
    laboratory
     on-site 
    because the approval of a disposal site in California for all
    California-based companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and
    when a disposal site is approved, we may incur substantial costs
    related to the disposal of these materials. If we were to become
    liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended
    facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and
    penalties that could harm our business. Biologics manufacturing
    also requires permits from government agencies for water supply
    and wastewater discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate
    permits, or permits for sufficient quantities of water and
    wastewater, we could incur significant costs and limits on our
    manufacturing volumes that could harm our business.

Several
    aspects of our corporate governance and our collaboration
    agreements may discourage a third party from attempting to
    acquire us.   

Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could
    be viewed as beneficial to stockholders who wish to receive a
    premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example:

we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a
    business combination with an interested stockholder for a period
    of three years after the date of

32

Table of Contents   

the transaction in which the person became an interested
    stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the
    manner prescribed in Section 203;

our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a
    vote or action of stockholders, up to 8,000,000 shares of
    preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and
    privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to
    the rights of holders of common stock;

our collaboration agreement with Elan provides Elan with the
    option to buy the rights to TYSABRI in the event that we undergo
    a change of control, which may limit our attractiveness to
    potential acquirers;

our amended and restated collaboration agreement with Genentech
    provides that, in the event we undergo a change of control,
    within 90 days Genentech may present an offer to us to
    purchase our rights to RITUXAN. In an arbitration proceeding
    brought by Biogen Idec relating to the collaboration agreement,
    Genentech alleged that the November 2003 transaction in which
    Idec Pharmaceuticals acquired Biogen and became Biogen Idec
    constituted such a change of control, an assertion with which we
    strongly disagree. It is our position that the Biogen Idec
    merger did not constitute a change of control under our
    agreement with Genentech and that, even if it did,
    Genentech s rights under the change of control provision
    have long since expired. If the arbitrators decide this issue in
    favor of Genentech, or if a change of control were to occur in
    the future and Genentech were to present an offer for the
    RITUXAN rights, we must either accept Genentech s offer or
    purchase Genentech s rights to RITUXAN on the same terms as
    its offer. If Genentech presents such an offer, then they will
    be deemed concurrently to have exercised a right, in exchange
    for a royalty on net sales in the U.S. of any anti-CD20
    product acquired or developed by Genentech or any anti-CD20
    product that Genentech licenses from a third party that is
    developed under the agreement, to purchase our interest in each
    such product;

our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the
    entire board from being replaced in any single year; and

advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for
    election as a director and for proposals to be brought before an
    annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

33

Table of Contents   

Item 2.      

Properties   

Cambridge,
    Massachusetts and Surrounding Area   

Our principal executive offices are located in Cambridge,
    Massachusetts. In Cambridge, we own approximately
    510,000 square feet of real estate space, consisting of a
    250,000 square foot building that houses a research
    laboratory, office spaces and a cogeneration plant, and an
    approximately 260,000 square foot building that contains
    research, development and quality laboratories. We lease a total
    of approximately 440,000 square feet, consisting of
    additional office and manufacturing space, in all or part of
    four other buildings in Cambridge. In addition, we lease
    approximately 36,000 square feet of warehouse space in
    Somerville, Massachusetts, approximately 105,000 square
    feet of office space in Wellesley, Massachusetts, and
    approximately 25,000 square feet of office and lab space in
    Waltham, Massachusetts. The lease expiration dates for our
    leased sites in Massachusetts range from 2009 to 2015. We
    recently executed a fifteen year lease on a 356,000 square
    foot office building in Weston, Massachusetts, which will serve
    as the future location of our executive offices with a planned
    occupancy during the third quarter of 2010. We anticipate that
    the Weston facility will decrease our overall occupancy cost per
    employee.

San Diego
    and Oceanside, California   

In San Diego, California, we own approximately
    43 acres of land upon which we have our oncology research
    and development campus. The campus consists of five
    interconnected buildings, which primarily contain laboratory and
    office space, totaling approximately 350,000 square feet.
    In July 2007, we sold two parcels of undeveloped property in
    Oceanside, California, totaling approximately 28 acres of
    land.

Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina   

In Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, we own approximately
    530,000 square feet of real estate space. This includes a
    108,000 square foot biologics manufacturing facility, a
    232,000 square foot large scale manufacturing plant, a
    second large-scale purification facility of 42,000 square
    feet, and a 150,000 square foot laboratory office building.
    We manufacture bulk AVONEX and TYSABRI at this facility. We plan
    to use this facility to manufacture other products in our
    pipeline and to meet any obligation to manufacture AMEVIVE
    resulting from our sale of that product to Astellas. We are
    continuing further upgrades in Research Triangle Park with
    ongoing construction of several projects to increase our
    manufacturing flexibility. In addition, we lease approximately
    44,000 square feet of office space in Durham, North
    Carolina.

Hiller d,
    Denmark   

We own approximately 60 acres of property in Hiller d,
    Denmark. We are constructing a large-scale biologics
    manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark to be used to
    manufacture TYSABRI and other products in our pipeline. An
    administrative building, label and packaging facility and lab
    facility are currently in use. For a discussion of our plans for
    the Hiller d, Denmark large-scale manufacturing facility,
    see  Manufacturing and Raw Materials. 

Other
    International   

We lease space in Zug, Switzerland, our international
    headquarters, the United Kingdom, Germany, Austria, Argentina,
    France, Belgium, Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Czech Republic,
    Slovenia, Slovak Republic, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Norway,
    Japan, India, China, Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, Hungary and
    Canada.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

Please refer to Note 19, Litigation, in  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  of this annual report on
     Form 10-K, 
    which is incorporated into this item by reference.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.

34

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Market
    Information  

Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under
    the symbol  BIIB.  The following table shows the high
    and low sales price for our common stock as reported by The
    NASDAQ Global Select Market for each quarter in the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Holders  

As of February 2, 2009, there were approximately
    1,121 stockholders of record of our common stock. In
    addition, as of February 2, 2009, 406 stockholders of
    record of Biogen, Inc. common stock have yet to exchange their
    shares of Biogen, Inc. common stock for our common stock as
    contemplated by the merger of Biogen, Inc. and Idec
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or the Merger.

Dividends  

We have not paid cash dividends since our inception. We
    currently intend to retain all earnings, if any, for use in the
    expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate
    paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

We incorporate information regarding the securities authorized
    for issuance under our equity compensation plans into this
    section by reference from the section entitled  Disclosure
    With Respect To Our Equity Compensation Plans  in the proxy
    statement for our 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities  

None.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

A summary of issuer repurchase activity for 2008 is as follows:

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

35

Table of Contents   

(a)  

On October 13, 2006 the Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common
    stock. The repurchased stock will provide us with authorized
    shares for general corporate purposes, such as common stock to
    be issued under our employee equity and stock purchase plans.
    This repurchase program does not have an expiration date. We
    publicly announced the repurchase program in our press release
    dated October 31, 2006, which was furnished to the SEC as
    Exhibit 99.1 to our current report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on October 31, 2006. 

(b)  

After December 31, 2008, we repurchased approximately
    1.2 million additional shares at a total cost of
    $57.6 million. 

Stock
    Performance Graph  

The graph below compares the five-year cumulative total
    stockholder return on our common stock, the S P 500
    Index and the Nasdaq Pharmaceutical Index, assuming the
    investment of $100.00 on December 31, 2003 with dividends
    being reinvested. The stock price performance in the graph below
    is not necessarily indicative of future price performance.

36

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

The following financial data should be read in conjunction with
    our consolidated financial statements and related notes
    appearing elsewhere in this report on
     Form 10-K, 
    beginning on
     page F-1. 

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

(1)  

Included in costs and expenses in 2005 is a charge of
    $118.1 million related to facility impairment charges. 

(2)  

Included in costs and expenses in 2006 is a charge of
    $207.4 million for in-process research and development and
    a net gain of $6.1 million on the settlement of license
    agreements associated with Fumapharm AG, or Fumapharm, and
    Fumedica GmbH, or Fumedica and a charge of $123.1 million
    for in process research and development related to the
    acquisition of Conforma Therapeutics, Inc. or Conforma. 

(3)  

In connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-based
    Payments , or SFAS 123(R), we recorded the cumulative
    effect of an accounting change of $3.8 million, net, as of
    January 1, 2006. 

(4)  

Included in costs and expenses in 2007 is a charge of
    $18.4 million for in-process research and development
    related to the acquisition of Syntonix Pharmaceuticals Inc., or
    Syntonix, and $64.3 million related to our collaborations
    with Cardiokine Biopharma LLC and Neurimmune SubOne AG, which we
    consolidated under FASB Interpretation No. 46,
     Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities , or
    FIN 46(R). The $64.3 million was offset by an equal
    amount of minority interest, resulting in no net impact to the
    results of our operations. 

37

Table of Contents   

(5)  

In July 2007, we purchased 56,424,155 shares of our common
    stock pursuant to a tender offer. We funded the transaction
    through existing cash and cash equivalents of
    $1,490.5 million and a short term loan of
    $1,500.0 million. 

(6)  

Included in cost and expenses in 2008 is $25.0 million for
    in process research and development related to a milestone
    payment made to the former shareholders of Conforma pursuant to
    the terms of our acquisition of Conforma in 2006. 

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.   

Forward-Looking
    Information  

In addition to historical information, this report contains
    forward-looking statements that are based on our current beliefs
    and expectations. These statements involve risks and
    uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
    materially from those reflected in such forward-looking
    statements. These forward-looking statements do not relate
    strictly to historical or current facts and they may be
    accompanied by such words as  anticipate, 
     believe,   estimate,   expect, 
     forecast,   intend,   plan, 
     project,   target,   may, 
     will  and other words and terms of similar meaning.
    Reference is made in particular to forward-looking statements
    regarding the anticipated level of future product sales, royalty
    revenues, expenses, contractual obligations, regulatory
    submissions and approvals, clinical trial results, our long-term
    growth, the development and marketing of additional products,
    the impact of competitive products, the incidence or anticipated
    outcome of pending or anticipated litigation, patent-related
    proceedings, tax assessments and other legal proceedings, our
    effective tax rate for future periods, our ability to finance
    our operations and meet our manufacturing needs, the completion
    of our manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark,
    liquidity, and our plans to spend additional capital on external
    business development and research opportunities. Risk factors
    which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations
    and which could negatively impact our financial condition and
    results of operations are discussed in the section entitled
     Risk Factors  in Part II of this report and
    elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements, like all
    statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this
    report (unless another date is indicated). Unless required by
    law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any
    forward-looking statements.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our
    consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing
    elsewhere in this
     Form 10-K, 
    beginning on
     page F-1. 

Executive
    Summary  

Biogen Idec Inc. was formed in 2003 upon the acquisition of
    Biogen, Inc. by IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in a merger
    transaction, or the Merger. We are a global biotechnology
    company that creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas
    of high unmet medical needs. We have two licensed biological
    bulk-manufacturing facilities, including our large-scale
    manufacturing plant in Research Triangle Park, NC, which is one
    of the world s largest cell culture facilities. An
    additional large-scale manufacturing plant is under construction
    in Hiller d, Denmark. We conduct research in
    San Diego, CA and Cambridge, MA. In 2008, we entered into
    an agreement with a real estate developer for the construction
    and leasing of a corporate headquarters in Weston, MA. We
    anticipate occupancy in 2010. We have additional offices in
    Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, China,
    India and throughout Europe, including our international
    headquarters in Zug, Switzerland and operate a global
    distribution network, which covers over 70 countries. We
    currently employ approximately 4,700 people worldwide.

Results for the year ended December 31, 2008 included total
    revenue of $4,097.5 million, net income of
    $783.2 million and diluted net income per share of $2.65.
    These results reflect continued growth in unit sales of TYSABRI,
    an increase in revenues from an unconsolidated joint business
    arrangement due to increased sales of RITUXAN, as well as the
    impact of price increases in the United States and the favorable
    impact of exchange rates in rest of world on our AVONEX product.
    The effect of the increase in revenue was partially offset by an
    increase in research and development expense due to increased
    level of Phase 3 clinical trials and other projects, and an
    increase in selling, general and administrative expense related
    to a higher level of personnel to sustain AVONEX sales and drive
    TYSABRI growth. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed a
    reorganization of our domestic and

38

Table of Contents   

international operations, which included the movement of certain
    personnel and operational functions between Biogen Idec
    subsidiaries, as well as a restructuring of our supply chain.

Marketed
    Products   

We currently have four marketed products:

AVONEX   

    (interferon beta-1a);

RITUXAN   

    (rituximab);

TYSABRI   

    (natalizumab);

FUMADERM   

    (dimethylfumarate and monoethylfumarate salts)

Through December 2007 we recorded product revenue from sales of
    ZEVALIN (ibritumomab tiuxetan) in the U.S. In December 2007, we
    sold the U.S. marketing, sales, manufacturing and
    development rights of ZEVALIN to Cell Therapeutics, Inc., or
    CTI, for an upfront purchase price of $10.0 million. In
    December 2008, pursuant to an amendment of the agreement, we
    received an additional $2.2 million milestone payment. We
    may receive up to an additional $20.0 million in milestone
    payments. In addition, we will receive royalty payments on
    future sales of ZEVALIN. As part of the overall agreement, we
    entered into a supply agreement with CTI to sell ZEVALIN product
    through 2014. Our sales of ZEVALIN to Bayer Schering Pharma AG,
    or Schering AG, for distribution in the EU will be recognized as
    product revenue and our supply of ZEVALIN to CTI is recognized
    as corporate partner revenue. We will continue to receive
    royalty revenues from Schering AG on their sales of ZEVALIN in
    the EU. The $10.0 million upfront and $2.2 million
    milestone payment have been deferred and are being recognized in
    our results of operations over the term of the supply agreement.

Through April 2006, we recorded product revenues from sales of
    AMEVIVE (alefacept). In April 2006, we sold the worldwide rights
    to this product to Astellas Pharma US, Inc., or Astellas. We
    will continue to manufacture and supply this product to Astellas
    for a period of up to 11 years. Under the terms of the
    supply agreement, we charge Astellas fixed amounts based on
    volume. Such amounts will be recognized as corporate partner
    revenue and are not significant.

Most of our revenues are currently dependent on sales of AVONEX,
    RITUXAN and TYSABRI. In the near term, we are dependent on the
    continued sales growth of TYSABRI to grow our overall revenues.
    In the longer term, our revenue growth is dependent on the
    successful clinical development, regulatory approval and launch
    of new commercial products currently being developed in our
    pipeline or products or programs that will be in-licensed or
    acquired.

Continued growth of global AVONEX unit sales is primarily
    dependent on maintaining AVONEX s position as the most
    prescribed multiple sclerosis, or MS, therapy in the world. In
    both the U.S. and rest of world, we face increasing
    competition in the MS market from currently marketed products
    and future products in late stage development, as well as
    increasing pricing pressure. We continue to generate data
    showing AVONEX to be an effective and safe choice for MS
    patients and physicians.

The majority of RITUXAN unit sales are currently from use in the
    oncology setting. We believe there is additional room for
    RITUXAN unit sales growth in the immunology setting, where
    RITUXAN is currently approved for patients with Rheumatoid
    Arthritis, or RA, with inadequate response to anti-tumor
    necrosis factor therapies, or TNF-IR. Additional immunology
    indications for RITUXAN that we are investigating include
    earlier stage RA patients with inadequate response to
    disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, or DMARD-IR patients,
    DMARD-na ve RA patients and lupus nephritis and
    ANCA-associated vaculitis.

In July 2006, we reintroduced TYSABRI in the U.S. and began
    to ship internationally for the first time. TYSABRI sales are
    currently for use in relapsing remitting MS and, following the
    FDA s approval in January 2008, Crohn s disease.
    Growth in TYSABRI revenue will be dependent on the generation of
    a larger and longer term safety database, as well as continued
    acceptance by physicians and MS patients. Since the
    reintroduction of TYSABRI in the U.S. and the introduction of
    TYSABRI in the rest of world, we have disclosed five cases of
    progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, or PML, a known side
    effect, in patients taking TYSABRI in the post

39

Table of Contents   

marketing setting. These patients were the only confirmed cases
    of PML reported to us during this period. We continue to monitor
    the growth of TYSABRI unit sales in light of this news and we
    continue to develop protocols to potentially mitigate the risk
    and outcome of PML in patients being treated with TYSABRI.

Clinical
    Studies   

Over the past few years, we have incurred significant
    expenditures related to conducting clinical studies to develop
    new pharmaceutical products and explore the utility of our
    existing products in treating disorders beyond those currently
    approved in their labels. For 2009, we expect to continue to
    incur significant levels of research and development
    expenditures. We have a number of pipeline products in late
    stage clinical trials, including over 13 pipeline products in
    Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials. We are currently developing
    the late stage product candidates that are set forth below.

Development and/or 

Marketing 

Product 

Product Indications 

Status 

Collaborators 

BG-12  

Relapsing MS

Phase 3

None

Anti-CD80 MAb (galiximab)  

Relapsed NHL

Phase 3

None

Anti-CD23 MAb (lumiliximab)  

Relapsed CLL

Phase 2/3

None

Humanized Anti-CD20 MAb (ocrelizumab)  

RA

Phase 3

U.S.   Genentech Japan   Chugai and
    Zenyaku 
    Outside U.S. and Japan   Roche

Lupus nephritis

Phase 3

See above

Lixivaptan  

Hyponatremia, commonly seen in acute decompensated heart failure

Phase 3

Cardiokine Biopharma LLC

ADENTRI     

Acute decompensated heart failure with renal insufficiency

Phase 3

None

In addition to the expense associated with these late stage
    trials, other pipeline products are in ongoing or are expected
    to enter proof of concept trials in 2009.

Business
    Development   

As part of our business strategy, we have made acquisitions of
    other businesses, products, product rights or technologies and
    may continue to make acquisitions in the future. Our cash
    reserves and other liquid assets are substantial, but these
    sources of capital may be inadequate to consummate larger
    acquisitions and it may be necessary for us to raise substantial
    additional funds in the future to complete transactions. Due to
    the recent tightening of global credit and the disruption in the
    financial markets, it may be more difficult to secure such
    additional financing. In addition, as a result of our
    acquisition efforts, we may experience significant charges to
    earnings for merger and related expenses that may include
    transaction costs, closure costs or acquired in-process research
    and development charges.

40

Table of Contents   

Results
    of Operations  

Revenues   

Revenues were as follows (in millions):

Product
    Revenues   

Product revenues were as follows (in millions):

Cost of
    Sales  

Cost of sales includes the following (in millions):

During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006,
    we wrote down approximately $29.8 million,
    $21.6 million, and $13.0 million, respectively, of
    inventory which was charged to cost of sales.

41

Table of Contents   

Cost
    of Product Revenues   

Cost of product revenues, included in cost of sales, by product
    are as follows (in millions):

AVONEX   

Revenues from AVONEX were as follows (in millions):

For 2008 compared to 2007, U.S. sales of AVONEX increased
    $191.5 million, or 17.6%, due to price increases, partially
    offset by decreased product demand. For 2008 compared to 2007,
    rest of world sales of AVONEX increased $143.3 million, or
    18.3%, due to increased unit shipments, the impact of exchange
    rates and the establishment of additional direct market
    affiliates.

For 2007 compared to 2006, U.S. sales of AVONEX increased
    $62.8 million, or 6.1%, primarily due to the impact of
    price increases. These increases were offset by lower demand.
    For 2007 compared to 2006, rest of world sales of AVONEX
    increased $98.3 million, or 14.4%, primarily due to the
    impact of exchange rates and higher sales volume.

We expect to face increasing competition in the MS marketplace
    in both the U.S. and rest of world from existing and new MS
    treatments, including TYSABRI and our other pipeline products,
    which may have a negative impact to the unit sales of AVONEX. We
    expect future unit sales of AVONEX to be dependent to a large
    extent on our ability to compete successfully with the products
    of our competitors.

TYSABRI   

Revenues from TYSABRI were as follows (in millions):

Under the terms of a collaboration agreement with Elan, we
    manufacture TYSABRI and collaborate with Elan on the
    product s marketing, commercial distribution and on-going
    development activities. We recognize revenue

42

Table of Contents   

for sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. upon Elan s shipment
    of the product to third party distributors. We recognize revenue
    for sales of TYSABRI in rest of world at the time of product
    delivery to our customers and distributors.

Since the reintroduction of TYSABRI in the U.S. and the
    introduction of TYSABRI in the rest of world in July 2006, we
    have disclosed five cases of PML, a known side effect, in
    patients taking TYSABRI in the post marketing setting. These
    patients were the only confirmed cases of PML reported to us
    during this period. We continue to monitor the growth of TYSABRI
    unit sales in light of these results and we continue to develop
    protocols to potentially mitigate the risk and outcome of PML in
    patients being treated with TYSABRI.

For 2008 and 2007, we recorded revenue on sales of TYSABRI of
    $588.6 million and $229.9 million, respectively. The
    increase in 2008 sales as compared to 2007 sales is primarily
    due to increased unit shipments due to the growth in the number
    of patients using TYSABRI.

For 2007 and 2006, we have recorded revenue on sales of TYSABRI
    of $229.9 million and $35.8 million, respectively. The
    increase in 2007 sales as compared to 2006 sales is primarily
    due to increased unit shipments due to the growth in the number
    of patients using TYSABRI and due to the product being shipped
    for the entire 12 months during 2007 versus being shipped
    for only six months in 2006.

During 2007 and 2006, we had product on hand that had been fully
    written-off in 2005 due to the uncertainties surrounding the
    TYSABRI suspension but which was available to fill future
    orders. As we sold TYSABRI in 2007 and 2006, we realized lower
    than normal cost of sales and, therefore, higher margins, as we
    shipped the inventory that had been previously written-off. For
    2007 and 2006, cost of sales was approximately
    $12.6 million and $2.6 million, respectively, lower
    due to the sale of TYSABRI that had been previously written-off.
    All TYSABRI inventory that had been previously written-off had
    been shipped by December 31, 2007.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, pursuant to our
    collaboration agreement with Elan, Elan paid us a
    $75.0 million milestone payment in order to maintain the
    current collaboration profit sharing split. We recorded this
    amount as deferred revenue upon receipt and are recognizing this
    $75.0 million as product revenue in our consolidated
    statement of income over the term of our collaboration with Elan
    based on a units of revenue method whereby the revenue
    recognized is based on the ratio of units shipped in the current
    period over the total units expected to be shipped over the
    remaining term of the collaboration. We recognized
    $1.5 million of this milestone as revenue for the year
    ended December 31, 2008. Based on the TYSABRI sales levels
    achieved through the fourth quarter of 2008, in
    January 2009, Elan paid us an additional milestone payment
    of $50.0 million in order to maintain the current
    collaboration profit sharing split. Revenue from this milestone
    payment will also be deferred and  recognized on a units of
    revenue model.

FUMADERM   

In connection with our June 2006 acquisition of Fumapharm, we
    began recognizing revenue on sales of FUMADERM to our
    distributor, Fumedica, in July 2006. In December 2006, we
    acquired the right to distribute FUMADERM in Germany from
    Fumedica effective May 1, 2007. In connection with the
    acquisition of the FUMADERM distribution rights in Germany, we
    committed to the repurchase of any inventory Fumedica did not
    sell by May 1, 2007. As a result of this provision, we
    deferred the recognition of revenue on shipments made to
    Fumedica through April 30, 2007. We resumed recognizing
    revenue on sales of FUMADERM into the German market in May 2007.
    Sales of FUMADERM for 2008, 2007, and 2006 were
    $43.4 million, $21.5 million, and $9.5 million,
    respectively. These increases in sales were primarily due to
    increased volumes.

ZEVALIN   

In 2008, 2007, and 2006 sales of ZEVALIN were $4.8 million,
    $16.9 million, and $17.8 million, respectively. The
    decrease in total ZEVALIN sales in 2008 as compared to 2007 is
    primarily due to the sale of the rights to market, sell,
    manufacture, and develop ZEVALIN in the U.S. to CTI during
    the fourth quarter of 2007. Beginning in 2008, ZEVALIN product
    revenue consists only of ZEVALIN sales to Schering AG.

43

Table of Contents   

AMEVIVE   

In 2008, 2007, and 2006, sales of AMEVIVE were
    $0.3 million, $0.7 million, and $11.5 million,
    respectively. The decrease in total AMEVIVE sales is due to the
    sale, in April 2006, of our worldwide rights and infrastructure
    related to sales, production, and marketing of AMEVIVE to
    Astellas.

Although we sold the rights to this product, we continue to
    report a small amount of product revenues related to shipments
    made by certain of our overseas joint ventures, which we
    consolidate.

Provisions
    for Discounts and Allowances  

Revenues from product sales are recognized when all of the
    following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
    arrangement exists; delivery has occurred or services have been
    rendered; the seller s price to the buyer is fixed or
    determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenues
    are recorded net of applicable allowances for trade term
    discounts, wholesaler incentives, Medicaid rebates,
    Veteran s Administration, or VA, rebates, managed care
    rebates, product returns, other applicable allowances and, in
    2006, patient assistance and patient replacement goods. The
    estimates we make with respect to these allowances represent
    significant judgments.

Effective January 1, 2007, we changed the manner in which
    we administer our patient assistance and patient replacement
    goods programs. Prior to January 1, 2007, AVONEX product
    shipped for these programs was invoiced and recorded as gross
    product revenue and an offsetting provision for discount and
    returns was recorded for expected credit requests from the
    distributor that administers these programs on our behalf (as
    such, no net revenue was recorded for these shipments).
    Effective January 1, 2007, we entered into a new
    arrangement with a distributor. Under the new sales model, gross
    revenue is not recorded for product shipped to satisfy these
    programs, and cost of sales is recorded when the product is
    shipped.

Provisions for discounts and allowances reduced gross product
    revenues as follows (in millions):

44

Table of Contents   

An analysis of the amount of, and change in, reserves is as
    follows (in millions):

Our product revenue reserves are based on estimates of the
    amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. These
    estimates take into consideration our historical experience,
    current contractual requirements, statutory requirements,
    specific known market events and trends and forecasted customer
    buying patterns. If actual results vary, we may need to adjust
    these estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the
    period of the adjustment.

Product revenue reserves are categorized as follows: discounts,
    contractual adjustments and returns.

Discount reserves include trade term discounts, wholesaler
    incentives and, in 2006, patient assistance. For 2008 compared
    to 2007, discounts increased $21.4 million, or 46.8%,
    primarily resulting from increases in trade term discounts and
    wholesaler incentives as a result of price increases. For 2007
    compared to 2006, discounts decreased $57.2 million, or
    55.6%, resulting from a $67.5 million reduction related to
    the change of patient assistance to a consignment model, offset
    by increases in trade term discounts and wholesaler incentives.

Contractual adjustment reserves relate to Medicaid, VA and
    managed care rebates and other applicable allowances. For 2008
    compared to 2007, contractual adjustments increased
    $43.8 million, or 41.6%, primarily due to the impact of
    higher reserves for managed care (associated with higher level
    of activity with respect to rebates and 2008 price increases in
    the U.S.) and Medicaid and VA programs (associated with 2007
    price increases in the U.S.). For 2007 compared to 2006,
    contractual adjustments increased $11.9 million, or 12.8%,
    primarily due to the impact of higher reserves for managed care
    (associated with higher level of activity with respect to
    rebates and associated with 2007 price increases in the U.S.)
    and Medicaid and VA programs (associated with 2007 price
    increases in the U.S.).

Product return reserves are established for returns made by
    wholesalers and our patient replacement goods program in 2006.
    In accordance with contractual terms, wholesalers are permitted
    to return product for reasons such as damaged or expired
    product. We also accept returns from our patients for various
    reasons. For 2008 compared to

45

Table of Contents   

2007, return reserves decreased $9.9 million, or 44.8%,
    primarily due to a decrease in estimated product returns. For
    2007 compared to 2006, return reserves decreased
    $16.6 million, or 42.9%, primarily due to a
    $15.0 million decrease related to patient replacement goods
    under the new sales model.

Reserves for product returns are recorded in the period the
    related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to
    product sales. The majority of wholesaler returns are due to
    product expiration. Expired product return reserves are
    estimated through a comparison of historical return data, as
    adjusted, to their related sales on a production lot basis.
    Historical rates of return are determined for each product and
    are adjusted for known or expected changes in the marketplace
    specific to each product.

Unconsolidated
    Joint Business Revenues  

We have a collaboration with Genentech Inc., or Genentech, that
    was created and operates by agreement rather than through a
    joint venture or other legal entity. Our rights under the terms
    of our amended and restated collaboration agreement with
    Genentech include co-exclusive rights to develop, commercialize
    and market RITUXAN in the United States and Canada with
    Genentech. Genentech has the exclusive right to develop,
    commercialize and market RITUXAN in the rest of the world. We
    have assigned our rights to develop, commercialize and market
    RITUXAN in Canada to F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., or Roche.
    Genentech shares a portion of the pretax U.S. co-promotion
    profits with us and Roche shares a portion of the pretax
    Canadian co-promotion profits of RITUXAN with us.

In the U.S., we contribute resources to selling and the
    continued development of RITUXAN. Genentech is responsible for
    worldwide manufacturing of RITUXAN. Genentech also is
    responsible for the primary support functions for the
    commercialization of RITUXAN in the U.S. including selling
    and marketing, customer service, order entry, distribution,
    shipping and billing. Genentech also incurs the majority of
    continuing development costs for RITUXAN. Under the arrangement,
    we have a limited sales force as well as limited development
    activity.

Under the terms of separate sublicense agreements between
    Genentech and Roche, Roche is responsible for commercialization
    of RITUXAN outside the U.S., except in Japan where RITUXAN is
    co-marketed by Zenyaku Kogyo Co. Ltd., or Zenyaku, and Chugai
    Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd, or Chugai, an affiliate of Roche. There
    is no direct contractual arrangement between us and Roche,
    Zenyaku or Chugai.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consists of
    (1) our share of pretax co-promotion profits in the
    U.S. and Canada and (2) royalty revenue from sales of
    RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada by Roche, Zenyaku and
    Chugai. Pre-tax co-promotion profits are calculated and paid to
    us by Genentech in the U.S. and by Roche in Canada. Pre-tax
    co-promotion profits consist of U.S. and Canadian sales of
    RITUXAN to third-party customers net of discounts and allowances
    less the cost to manufacture RITUXAN, third-party royalty
    expenses, distribution, selling, and marketing expenses, and
    joint development expenses incurred by Genentech, Roche and us.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist of the
    following (in millions):

46

Table of Contents   

Co-promotion profits in the U.S. consist of the following (in
    millions):

Net sales of RITUXAN to third-party customers in the
    U.S. recorded by Genentech for 2008 were
    $2,587.4 million compared to $2,284.8 million in 2007,
    and $2,071.2 million in 2006. These increases were
    primarily due to increased unit sales in treatments of B-cell
    NHL and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (an unapproved use of
    RITUXAN), increased utilization for RA and increases in the
    wholesale price of RITUXAN.

In 2008, 2007, and 2006, reimbursements of selling and
    development expenses in the U.S. were $59.7 million,
    $58.5 million and $61.1 million, respectively. The
    increase in 2008 from 2007 was primarily due to development
    costs we incurred related to the development of RITUXAN in RA.
    The decrease in 2007 from 2006 was primarily due to the
    reimbursement of development costs when Roche exercised its
    option to participate in the relapsing remitting multiple
    sclerosis development program.

Revenue on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. consists of our
    share of co-promotion profits in Canada and royalty revenue on
    sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada. Our royalty
    revenue on sales of RITUXAN is based on Roche, Zenyaku and
    Chugai s net sales to third-party customers. We record our
    royalty revenue and co-promotion profit revenue on sales of
    RITUXAN outside the U.S. on a cash basis. Revenues on sales of
    RITUXAN outside the U.S. in 2008, 2007, and 2006 were
    $335.0 million, $250.8 million, and
    $194.0 million, respectively. These increases were due to
    several factors, including increased market penetration. The
    royalty period with respect to all products is 11 years
    from the first commercial sale of such product on a
     country-by-country 
    basis. For the majority of European countries, the first
    commercial sale of RITUXAN occurred in the second half of 1998.
    Therefore, we expect a significant decrease in royalty revenues
    on sales of RITUXAN outside the US and Canada beginning in the
    latter half of 2009. Specifically, the royalty period with
    respect to sales in France, Spain, Germany and the
    United Kingdom will expire in 2009. As a result, royalty
    revenue is expected to be in the range of $250.0 million to
    $290.0 million in 2009. The royalty period with respect to
    sales in Italy will expire in 2010. The royalty period with
    respect to sales in other countries will expire through 2012.

Under the amended and restated collaboration agreement, our
    current pretax co-promotion profit-sharing formula, which resets
    annually, is as follows:

Biogen Idec s Share 

Co-promotion Operating Profits 

of Co-promotion Profits 

First $50 million

30

%

Greater than $50 million

40

%

In 2008, 2007, and 2006, the 40% threshold was met during the
    first quarter.

47

Table of Contents   

For each calendar year or portion thereof following the approval
    date of the first New Anti-CD20 Product, the pretax co-promotion
    profit-sharing formula for RITUXAN and New Anti-CD20 Products
    sold by us and Genentech will change.

Biogen Idec s 

Share of 

First New Anti-CD20 Product U.S. 

Co-promotion 

Co-promotion Operating Profits 

Gross Product Sales 

Profits 

First $50 million(1)

N/A

30

%

Greater than $50 million

Until such sales exceed $150 million 
    in any calendar year(2)

38

%

Or

After such sales exceed $150 million in 
    any calendar year until such sales 
    exceed $350 million in any calendar year(3)

35

%

Or

After such sales exceed $350 million in  
    any calendar year(4)

30

%

(1)  

not applicable in the calendar year the first New Anti-CD20
    Product is approved if $50 million in co-promotion
    operating profits has already been achieved in such calendar
    year through sales of RITUXAN. 

(2)  

if we are recording our share of RITUXAN co-promotion profits at
    40%, upon the approval date of the first New Anti-CD20 Product,
    our share of co-promotion profits for RITUXAN and the New
    Anti-CD20 Product will be immediately reduced to 38% following
    the approval date of the first New Anti-CD20 Product until the
    $150 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales level is
    achieved. 

(3)  

if $150 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales is
    achieved in the same calendar year the first New Anti-CD20
    Product receives approval, then the 35% co-promotion
    profit-sharing rate will not be effective until January 1 of the
    following calendar year. Once the $150 million in first New
    Anti-CD20 Product sales level is achieved then our share of
     co-promotion 
    profits for the balance of the year and all subsequent years
    (after the first $50 million in
     co-promotion 
    operating profits in such years) will be 35% until the
    $350 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales level is
    achieved. 

(4)  

if $350 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales is
    achieved in the same calendar year that $150 million in new
    product sales is achieved, then the 30% co-promotion
    profit-sharing rate will not be effective until January 1 of the
    following calendar year (or January 1 of the second following
    calendar year if the first New Anti-CD20 Product receives
    approval and, in the same calendar year, the $150 million
    and $350 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales
    levels are achieved). Once the $350 million in first New
    Anti-CD20 Product sales level is achieved then our share of
    co-promotion profits for the balance of the year and all
    subsequent years will be 30%. 

Currently, we record our share of expenses incurred for the
    development of New Anti-CD20 Products in research and
    development expense until such time as a New Anti-CD20 Product
    is approved, at which time we will record our share of pretax
    co-promotion profits related to the New Anti-CD20 Product in
    revenues from unconsolidated joint business.

Under our collaboration agreement with Genentech, we will
    receive a lower royalty percentage of revenue from Genentech on
    sales by Roche and Zenyaku of New Anti-CD20 Products, as
    compared to the royalty percentage of revenue on sales of
    RITUXAN.

In 2008, under the terms of our collaboration agreement, we paid
    Genentech $31.5 million to participate in a license
    agreement with Roche for the development of a Third Party
    Anti-CD20 Product. This was recorded as research and development
    cost in our consolidated statement of operations as the product
    had no alternative future use. In addition, in 2008 we received
    $12.4 million from Genentech pursuant to Roche choosing to
    participate in a study of RITUXAN in primary-progressive
    multiple sclerosis. This was recorded as revenue from
    unconsolidated joint business in our consolidated statement of
    operations.

48

Table of Contents   

Other
    Revenue  

Other revenues consist of the following (in millions):

Royalty
    Revenues   

We receive revenues from royalties on sales by our licensees of
    a number of products covered under patents that we control. Our
    royalty revenues on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. are
    included in revenues from unconsolidated joint business in the
    accompanying consolidated statements of income.

For 2008 compared to 2007, royalty revenue increased
    $14.1 million, or 13.8%, primarily due to an increase in
    sales levels of certain products under license partially offset
    by the expiration of certain contracts and decreased sales level
    of certain products under license. For 2007 compared to 2006,
    royalty revenues increased $15.9 million, or 18.4%,
    primarily due to an increase in sales levels of products under
    license partially offset by the expiration of royalties under
    certain contracts.

Royalty revenues may fluctuate as a result of fluctuations in
    sales levels of products sold by our licensees from quarter to
    quarter due to the timing and extent of major events such as new
    indication approvals or government-sponsored programs.

Corporate
    Partner Revenues   

Corporate partner revenues represent contract revenues such as
    ZEVALIN and AMEVIVE and license fees.

Costs and
    Expenses  

Costs and expenses are as follows (in millions):

Inventory
    Write-Offs   

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value. If the actual
    net realizable value is less than that

49

Table of Contents   

estimated by us, or if it is determined that inventory
    utilization will further diminish based on estimates of demand,
    additional inventory write-downs may be required. Additionally,
    our products are subject to strict quality control and
    monitoring which we perform throughout the manufacturing
    process. Periodically, certain batches or units of product may
    no longer meet quality specifications or may expire. As a
    result, included in product cost of revenues were write-downs of
    commercial inventory that did not meet quality specifications or
    that became obsolete due to expiration. In all cases product
    inventory was written-down to its estimated net realizable value.

The shelf life associated with our products is generally between
    3 and 48 months, depending on the product. Obsolescence due
    to dating expiration has not been a historical concern, given
    the rapidity in which our products move through the channel.
    Changes due to our competitors  price movements have not
    adversely affected us. We do not provide incentives to our
    distributors to assume additional inventory levels beyond what
    is customary in their ordinary course of business.

We have written-down the following inventory, which was charged
    to cost of sales (in millions):

The write-downs were the result of the following (in millions):

Research
    and Development Expenses   

Research and development expenses totaled $1,072.1 million
    in 2008 compared to $925.2 million in 2007, and
    $718.4 million in 2006.

For 2008 compared to 2007, research and development expenses
    increased $146.9 million, driven by an increase of
    $56.4 million related to the continued advancement of our
    pipeline into Phase 3 clinical trials. In 2008, we initiated
    registrational trials in the Lixivaptan and Adentri programs and
    continued to execute development plans of our BG-12, Anti-CD23,
    and Anti-CD80 programs. Costs associated with Phase 3 clinical
    trials are, in most cases, more significant than those incurred
    in earlier stages of our pipeline. In 2008, we had
    8 programs in Phase 3 clinical trials as compared to
    5 in 2007. We also increased spend in our Anti-CD20
    programs, which is being developed in both Phase 2 and Phase 3
    clinical trials by $46.2 million primarily due to a
    $31.5 million opt-in payment to participate in the
    Roche-led GA101 program. The balance of the increase of
    $44.3 million is due to other research and development
    investments, primarily in our pre clinical and early stage
    pipeline programs including HSP90, BIIB014, BART and LINGO
    programs.

For 2007 compared to 2006, research and development expenses
    increased $206.8 million, primarily due to an increase of
    $129.1 million related to the continued advancement of our
    late stage pipeline which includes a $50.0 million upfront
    payment to Cardiokine Biopharma LLC for the Lixivaptan
    collaboration entered into in August of 2007. In addition, in
    2007, we initiated registrational trials for the Anti-CD23 and
    BG-12 programs. In 2007, we had 5 programs in Phase 3
    clinical trials as compared to 3 in 2006. The balance of the
    $77.7 million is due to other research and development
    investments, primarily in pre clinical and early stage pipeline
    programs driven by

50

Table of Contents   

our business development deals with Syntonix and Conforma, as
    well as increased spend for the Baminercept-alpha (LTBR-Fc)
    program in anticipation of the 2007 and 2008 data read outs.

We expect that research and development expenses will increase
    in 2009 primarily due to the greater number of product
    candidates in late stage clinical trials.

Selling,
    General and Administrative Expenses   

Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled
    $925.3 million in 2008 compared to $776.1 million in
    2007, and $685.1 million in 2006.

For 2008 compared to 2007, selling, general and administrative
    expenses increased $149.2 million, or 19.2%, primarily due
    to a $90.0 million increase in sales and marketing, of
    which $55.3 million related to international sales and
    marketing activities primarily for AVONEX and TYSABRI and a
    $43.6 million increase in salaries and benefits related to
    general and administrative personnel as well as increases in
    fees and services.

For 2007 compared to 2006, selling, general and administrative
    expenses increased $91.0 million, or 13.3%, primarily due
    to a $65.0 million increase in sales and marketing
    activities for TYSABRI, primarily in international sales and
    marketing, a $25.5 million net increase in salaries and
    benefits related to increased headcount in general and
    administrative personnel, a $19.0 million increase in fees
    and services related to general and administrative matters
    offset by a $12.1 million decrease in sales and marketing
    activities for ZEVALIN due to decreased commercial efforts due
    to the planned divestiture of this product line.

We do not anticipate a significant increase in total selling,
    general, and administrative expenses in 2009 as compared to the
    amount incurred in 2008.

Severance
    and Other Restructuring Costs   

Severance and other restructuring costs totaled
    $5.0 million in 2008 as compared to $1.8 million in
    2007 and $3.6 million in 2006. These costs are included in
    research and development expense and selling, general and
    administrative expense in our consolidated statements of income.
    At December 31, 2008, there are no remaining material
    severance or restructuring accruals on our consolidated balance
    sheet.

Amortization
    of Intangible Assets   

For 2008, 2007, and 2006, amortization expense was
    $332.7 million, $257.5 million, and
    $267.0 million, respectively.

Our most significant intangible asset is the core technology
    related to our AVONEX product. Our amortization policy for our
    core technology intangible asset is based on the principles of
    Statement of Financial Standards No. 142,  Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets,  or SFAS 142, which requires
    the amortization of intangible assets to reflect the pattern in
    which the economic benefits of the intangible asset are
    consumed. Every year during the third quarter we complete our
    long range planning cycle, which includes an analysis of the
    anticipated product sales of AVONEX. The results of this
    forecast serve as the basis for our assumptions used in the
    economic consumption amortization model for our core technology
    intangible asset. We also establish minimum annual amortization
    amounts to ensure amortization charges are not unreasonably
    deferred to future periods. See Note 1, Business Overview
    and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, for a detailed
    description of our accounting policy for amortization of
    intangible assets.

For 2008 compared to 2007, amortization expense increased
    $75.2 million, or 29.2%, primarily due to the changes in
    the estimate of the future revenue of AVONEX, which serves as
    the basis for the calculation of economic consumption for core
    technology that occurred as part of our annual reassessment of
    amortization expense in the third quarters of 2008 and 2007. The
    change in the estimate of the future revenue of AVONEX is
    attributable to the expected impact of competitor products,
    including commercialization of our own pipeline product
    candidates.

For 2007 compared to 2006, amortization expense decreased
    $9.5 million, or 3.6%, primarily due to the changes in
    estimate of the future revenue of AVONEX, which serves as the
    basis in our calculation of economic consumption for core
    technology.

51

Table of Contents   

We review our intangible assets for impairment when events or
    changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an
    asset may not be recoverable. No such events or changes in
    circumstances occurred in 2008. If future events or
    circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets
    may not be recoverable, we may be required to record additional
    charges to our results of operations.

In-Process
    Research and Development (IPR D)   

For 2008, 2007, and 2006, IPR D charges were
    $25.0 million, $84.2 million, and $330.5 million,
    respectively.

In 2008, we recorded an IPR D charge of $25.0 million
    related to a HSP90-related milestone payment made to the former
    shareholders of Conforma, pursuant to the terms of our
    acquisition of Conforma in 2006.

During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded
    IPR D charges of $84.2 million. The principal
    components of this amount are as follows: $18.4 million
    related to the acquisition of Syntonix, approximately
    $30 million related to the collaboration with Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC, or Cardiokine and $34.3 million related to
    the collaboration with Neurimmune. Cardiokine and Neurimmune are
    variable interest entities, as defined in FIN 46(R). The
    consolidation of these entities resulted in IPR D charges.
    The IPR D charges have been recorded as a component of
    operating income. However, because the IPR D charges relate
    to the fair value of the underlying technology retained by the
    parent companies of Cardiokine and Neurimmune, these amounts
    were allocated to the respective minority interests.
    Consequently, minority interest of $64.3 million was
    recorded as a component of non-operating income. In 2006, we
    recorded $207.4 million and $123.1 million in
    IPR D related to the acquisitions of Fumapharm and
    Conforma, respectively.

Through December 31, 2008, research and development
    expenditures related to in-process research and development
    projects acquired in prior years are $42.9 million,
    $36.3 million, and $129.3 million related to Syntonix,
    Conforma, and Fumapharm, respectively.

See Note 2, Acquisitions and Dispositions, and
    Note 16, Research Collaborations of the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Facility
    Impairments and (Gain) Loss on Disposition, net   

In 2008, as part of the lease agreement described in
    Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, we sold the
    development rights on a parcel of land in Cambridge, MA in a
    non-monetary transaction for $11.4 million. We recorded a
    pre-tax gain of approximately $9.2 million on the sale. In
    2006, we completed the sale of one of the buildings in our
    Cambridge, Massachusetts facility, known as Bio 1. Proceeds
    from the sale were approximately $39.5 million. We recorded
    a pre-tax gain of approximately $15.6 million on the sale.
    We continued to occupy a minor portion of the building under a
    leasing arrangement. In 2006, we also sold our clinical
    manufacturing facility in Oceanside, California, known as NICO
    for total consideration of $29.0 million. We recorded an
    immaterial net gain pursuant to this transaction.

Gain
    on Settlement of License Agreements, net   

In 2006, we recorded a net gain on settlement of license
    agreements, net of $6.1 million as discussed below.

Fumapharm  

During 2006, we recorded a gain of $34.2 million coincident
    with the acquisition of Fumapharm in accordance with
     EITF 04-1, 
     Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between the Parties
    to a Business Combination,  or
     EITF 04-1. 
    The gain related to the settlement of a preexisting
    collaboration agreement between Fumapharm and us. The
    collaboration agreement was entered into in October 2003 and
    required payments to Fumapharm of certain royalty amounts. The
    market rate for such payments was higher at the acquisition
    date, primarily due to the increased technical feasibility of
    BG-12. The gain relates to the difference between the royalty
    rates at the time the agreement was entered into as compared to
    the rates at the time the agreement was effectively settled by
    virtue of our acquisition of Fumapharm.

52

Table of Contents   

Fumedica  

During 2006, we recorded a charge of $28.1 million in
    connection with a settlement agreement with Fumedica
    Arzneimittel AG and Fumedica Arzneimittel GmbH, collectively
    Fumedica. The charge related to the settlement of the agreement
    with Fumedica under which we were contingently obligated to make
    royalty payments with respect to a successful launch of BG-12
    for psoriasis in Germany. Under the terms of the settlement
    agreement, we will not be required to make any royalty payments
    to Fumedica if BG-12 is successfully launched for psoriasis in
    Germany. The $28.1 million was expensed in 2006, as it
    related to a product that had not reached technological
    feasibility.

Share-based
    Compensation Expense   

In the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded
    share-based compensation expense of $146.2 million, and
    $123.1 million, respectively, associated with
    SFAS 123(R). In the year ended December 31, 2006, we
    recorded share-based compensation expense of $126.8 million
    associated with SFAS 123(R), which is net of a cumulative
    effect pre-tax adjustment of $5.6 million, or
    $3.8 million after-tax. The cumulative effect results from
    the application of an estimated forfeiture rate for current and
    prior period unvested restricted stock awards.

Our share-based compensation programs consist of share-based
    awards granted to employees including stock options, restricted
    stock, performance-based restricted stock units, and restricted
    stock units, or RSUs, as well as our employee stock purchase
    plan, or ESPP. The fair value of performance based stock units
    is based on the market price of our stock on the date of grant
    and assumes that the performance criteria will be met and the
    target payout level will be achieved. Compensation expense is
    adjusted for subsequent changes in the outcome of
    performance-related conditions until the vesting date.

Other
    Income (Expense), Net   

Other income (expense), net, is as follows (in millions):

Interest
    Income   

For 2008 compared to 2007, interest income decreased
    $31.5 million, or 30.4%, primarily due to a reduction in
    cash and cash equivalents due to the funding of our tender offer
    in July 2007, a net payment of $525.5 million for our term
    loan facility and other debt, and lower investment yields. For
    2007 compared to 2006, interest income increased
    $2.4 million, or 2.4%, primarily due to higher yields
    offset by a reduction in cash and cash equivalents due to the
    funding of our tender offer in July 2007. We expect that further
    reductions in yields may impact our interest income in 2009.

Interest
    Expense   

For 2008 compared to 2007, interest expense increased
    $11.5 million, or 28.4%, primarily due to an increased
    average debt balance in 2008 as compared to 2007 as well as
    $8.9 million due to the impact of hedge ineffectiveness

53

Table of Contents   

as discussed in Note 4, Financial Instruments. For 2007
    compared to 2006, interest expense increased $39.6 million,
    primarily due to the increased debt levels relating to our
    tender offer funded in July 2007 (see Note 21, Tender
    Offer). As discussed in Note 4, Financial Instruments, in
    2008 we terminated certain interest rate swaps. Upon termination
    of the swaps, the carrying amount of the 6.875% Senior
    Notes due in 2018 increased by $62.8 million as it was
    accounted for as a fair value hedge. This amount will be
    recognized as a reduction of interest expense and amortized
    using the effective interest rate method over the remaining life
    of the Senior Notes.

Impairment
    on Investments   

In 2008, the impairment on investments was due to an other than
    temporary decline in the fair value of marketable debt
    securities of $41.7 million related primarily to non agency
    mortgage and asset backed securities and corporate securities
    classified as available for sale as well as other than temporary
    declines in the fair values of our strategic investments of
    $18.6 million. In 2007 and 2006, the impairment of
    investments is primarily due to the other than temporary decline
    in value in our strategic investments portfolio. We may incur
    additional impairment charges on these investments in the future.

Minority
    Interest   

For 2008 compared to 2007, minority interest decreased
    $65.3 million, primarily due to the recording in 2007 of
    $64.3 million in minority interest pursuant to the initial
    consolidation of Cardiokine in August 2007 and Neurimmune in
    November 2007. For 2007 compared to 2006, minority interest
    increased $65.2 million, also primarily due to the initial
    consolidation of Cardiokine and Neurimmune in 2007. The minority
    interest related to Cardiokine and Neurimmune recorded in 2007
    offset an equal charge to IPR D, which resulted in no net
    impact to our results of operations for these IPR D and
    minority interest charges. Excluding the impact of these
    consolidations, minority interest expense was $6.9 million,
    $5.9 million and $6.8 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Gain
    on Sale of Property   

In 2007, we sold approximately 28 acres of land in
    Oceanside, California for $16.5 million. We recorded a
    pre-tax gain of approximately $7.1 million on the sale.

Income
    Tax Provision  

Due to tax law changes in certain jurisdictions, during 2008 we
    completed a reorganization of our domestic and international
    corporate structure and moved certain personnel and operational
    functions between affiliates. We anticipate the restructuring
    will impact amounts subject to future taxation in the
    U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. We anticipate the changes
    in our international structure will have a slight unfavorable
    impact on our effective tax rate for 2009 and beyond, as
    compared to our tax rate in 2008. We do not anticipate that the
    domestic reorganization will have a significant impact on our
    tax rate in 2009 and beyond as compared to our 2008 tax rate.

Our effective tax rate was 31.8%, 29.9% and 56.6% on pre-tax
    income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. The effective tax rate in 2008 was higher
    than that in 2007, primarily due to an increased percentage of
    our foreign earnings being subject to U.S. income tax and
    the effects of our reorganization of our international
    operations during 2008, partially offset by certain tax credits
    and deferred tax assets which will be realized, as a result of
    our domestic reorganization.

Our effective rate for 2006 was higher than the rate for 2007
    primarily due to the write-off of non-deductible IPR D in
    connection with the acquisitions of Conforma and Fumapharm,
    offset by a non-deductible gain on settlement of the Fumapharm
    license agreement, and the impact of acquisition-related
    intangible amortization related to foreign jurisdictions and
    state taxes, offset by the effect of lower income tax in certain
     non-U.S. jurisdictions. 

Refer to Note 15, Income Taxes, in  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements , for full income tax
    rate reconciliations for 2008, 2007 and 2006.

54

Table of Contents   

Financial
    Condition and Liquidity  

Our financial condition is summarized as follows (in millions):

Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities at
    December 31, 2008, are relatively consistent with the
    balances at December 31, 2007. However, there were several
    significant cash flow activities including the net repayment of
    approximately $513.0 million of indebtedness,
    $738.9 million used to fund share repurchases, as well as
    $276.0 used to purchase property plant and equipment offset by
    cash generated from operations of $1,566.5 million and cash
    received from the termination of our interest rate swaps of
    $53.9 million. During the year ended December 31,
    2008, we paid approximately $72.5 million in milestone and
    other payments pursuant to our research and development
    programs, including $31.5 million pursuant to our Genentech
    agreement, $25.0 million of contingent purchase price in
    connection with our Conforma acquisition and $10.5 million
    related to the development of the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody under our arrangement with Neurimmune Therapeutics AG.
    We also received $75.0 million pursuant to our Elan
    collaboration. All of these milestone payments are included in
    cash from operations except the conforma payment which is
    included in investing activities on the consolidated statement
    of cash flows.

Until required for use in the business, we invest our cash
    reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial
    paper, corporate notes, foreign and U.S. government
    instruments, and other interest bearing marketable debt
    instruments in accordance with our investment policy. The value
    of these securities may be adversely affected which could impact
    our financial position and our overall liquidity. In particular,
    the value of our investments may be adversely affected by
    increases in interest rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds
    included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial
    markets that reduces the liquidity of securities included in our
    portfolio, declines in the value of collateral underlying the
    mortgage, auto and credit card asset backed securities included
    in our portfolio, and by other factors which may result in other
    than temporary declines in value of the investments. Each of
    these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the
    carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell investments
    for less than our acquisition cost. We attempt to mitigate these
    risks with the assistance of our investment advisors by
    investing in high quality securities and continuously monitoring
    the overall risk profile of our portfolio.  We also maintain a
    well diversified portfolio that limits our credit exposure
    through concentration limits set within our investment policy.

As noted in Note 3, Fair Value Measurements, in  Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements,  a majority of our
    financial assets and liabilities have been classified as
    Level 2. These assets and liabilities have been initially
    valued at the transaction price and subsequently valued
    utilizing third party pricing services. The pricing services use
    many observable market inputs to determine value, including
    reportable trades, benchmark yields, credit spreads,
    broker/dealer quotes, bids, offers, current spot rates, other
    industry, and economic events. We validate the prices provided
    by our third party pricing services by understanding the models
    used, obtaining market values from other pricing sources, and
    analyzing pricing data in certain instances. The fair values of
    our foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps,
    debt instruments and plan assets for deferred compensation are
    based on market inputs and have been classified as Level 2.
    While we believe the valuation methodologies are appropriate,
    the use of valuation methodologies is highly judgmental and
    changes in methodologies can have a material impact on the
    values of these assets, our financial position, and overall
    liquidity. Refer to Item 7A of this Form 10-K,
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market
    Risk,  for further discussion of the impact of changes in
    interest rates on these investments.

55

Table of Contents   

We have financed our operating and capital expenditures through
    cash flows from our operations. We financed our common stock
    tender offer in July 2007 through the use of debt and existing
    cash. We expect to finance our current and planned operating
    requirements principally through cash from operations, as well
    as existing cash resources. We believe that these funds will be
    sufficient to meet our operating requirements for the
    foreseeable future. However, we may, from time to time, seek
    additional funding through a combination of new collaborative
    agreements, strategic alliances, additional equity and debt
    financings or from other sources.

On December 4, 2008, Standard   Poor s
    upgraded our credit rating from BBB to BBB+. According to public
    records, the rating action reflects the prospects for continued
    growth of our multiple sclerosis (MS) franchise and our
    conservative financial policies. Specifically,
    Standard   Poor s stated that our liquidity is
    more than adequate and that no significant debt is maturing in
    the near term, which for us is 2013. We have sufficient liquid
    funds in cash and marketable securities and have access to a
    $360.0 million credit facility.

See Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors  of this
     Form 10-K 
    for risk factors that could negatively impact our cash position
    and ability to fund future operations.

Operating
    activities   

Cash provided by operations is primarily driven by our net
    income and adjusted for non-cash items. On an ongoing basis, we
    expect cash provided from operating activities will continue to
    be our primary source of funds to finance operating needs and
    capital expenditures. In 2008, 2007, and 2006, net cash provided
    by operating activities was $1,566.5 million,
    $1,020.6 million, and $841.3 million, respectively.

The increase in cash from operating activities for 2008 as
    compared to 2007, was primarily due to higher earnings net of a
    higher investment in working capital and the proceeds received
    from the termination of the interest rate swap.

The increase in cash from operating activities in 2007 as
    compared to 2006 was primarily due to higher earnings. Movements
    in working capital accounts, which were a use of funds of
    $77.9 million in 2007 as compared to a use of funds of
    $103.3 million in 2006, also contributed to this increase.

Investing
    activities   

In 2008, 2007, and 2006, net cash used in investing activities
    was $365.9 million, $286.6 million, and
    $599.8 million, respectively.

In 2008, our sources of cash from investing activities consisted
    primarily of the net proceeds from sales and purchases of
    marketable securities. Our primary use of cash in investing
    activities consisted primarily of the purchases of property
    plant and equipment of $275.9 million. Payments pursuant to
    acquisitions and licenses were $25.0 million, which related
    to our 2006 acquisition of Conforma. The change in balance of
    collateral received under securities lending is reflected as a
    source of cash in investing activities offset by a use of cash
    from financing activities.

In 2007, net proceeds from sales of marketable securities of
    $209.0 million, were used to partially fund the tender
    offer described in Note 21, Tender Offer. Purchases of
    property, plant and equipment totaled $284.1 million in
    2007. Payments made for acquisitions were $95.8 million in
    2007, which primarily related to our acquisition of Syntonix for
    $42.3 million, and our collaboration payments to Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC for $50.0 million and Neurimmune of
    $2.0 million. The change in balance of collateral received
    under securities lending is reflected as a use of cash in
    investing activities offset by a source of cash from financing
    activities. Additionally, in 2007 we sold our position in a
    strategic investment for $99.5 million.

In 2006, net cash used to purchase marketable securities was
    $162.8 million. Purchases of property, plant and equipment
    totaled $198.3 million for 2006. Payments made for
    acquisitions were $363.3 million in 2006, which related to
    our acquisitions of Fumapharm and Conforma. Proceeds from the
    sale of product lines were $59.8 million in 2006, which
    related to the sale of AMEVIVE.

56

Table of Contents   

Financing
    activities   

In 2008, 2007, and 2006, net cash used in financing activities
    was $1,236.7 million, $735.2 million, and
    $148.4 million, respectively.

The primary increase in use of cash in 2008 was the repayment of
    our term loan facility of $1,500.0 million, and the
    purchase of our common stock of $738.9 million, offset in
    part by the issuance of long-term debt, net, of
    $987.0 million, and proceeds of $178.5 million
    relating to the exercise of stock options and purchases of our
    stock under our share based compensation arrangements.

In 2007, the primary use of cash related to the repurchase of
    treasury stock via the tender offer of $2,990.5 million.
    This repurchase was partially funded with cash proceeds from a
    short-term note of $1,500.0 million. This transaction is
    described in Note 21, Tender Offer. Additionally, cash
    proceeds from issuance of stock for our share based compensation
    arrangements were $489.2 million, which was primarily
    attributable to the exercise of stock options and participation
    in our ESPP plan. The change in balance of collateral received
    under securities lending is reflected as a use of cash in
    investing activities offset by a source of cash from financing
    activities.

In 2006, the primary use of cash was $320.3 million for the
    purchase of treasury stock, offset by $147.0 million in
    proceeds from issuance of stock for our share based compensation
    arrangements.

Borrowings   

On March 4, 2008, we issued $450.0 million aggregate
    principal amount of 6.0% Senior Notes due March 1,
    2013 and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of
    6.875% Senior Notes due March 1, 2018 for proceeds of
    $987.0 million, net of issuance costs. Additionally, in
    connection with the note issuance, we entered into interest rate
    swaps, which were terminated in December 2008 and are further
    described in Note 4, Financial Instruments.

We used the proceeds of this offering, along with cash and the
    proceeds from the liquidation of marketable securities, to repay
    the $1,500.0 million term loan facility we had entered into
    in July 2007 in connection with the funding of our June 2007
    tender offer.

In June 2007, we also entered into a five-year
    $400.0 million Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility,
    which we may use for working capital and general corporate
    purposes. The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
    September 2008 has eliminated their $40.0 million
    commitment, thereby reducing the availability of the credit
    facility to $360.0 million. The terms of this revolving
    credit facility include various covenants, including financial
    covenants that require us to not exceed a maximum leverage ratio
    and under certain circumstance, an interest coverage ratio. As
    of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with these
    covenants and there were no borrowings outstanding under this
    credit facility.

Tender
    Offer   

On June 27, 2007, pursuant to the terms of a modified
     Dutch Auction  tender offer, we accepted for payment
    56,424,155 shares of our common stock at a price of $53.00
    per share for a purchase price of $2,990.5 million. We
    funded the tender offer through existing cash and cash
    equivalents of $1,490.5 million and a $1,500.0 million
    term loan facility as described in Note 8, Indebtedness.
    All of the shares repurchased were retired in July 2007.

Commitments   

As of December 31, 2008, we have completed the first phase
    of construction of our large-scale biologic manufacturing
    facility in Hiller d, Denmark, which included partial
    completion of a bulk manufacturing component, a labeling and
    packaging component, and installation of major equipment. We are
    proceeding with the second phase of the project, including the
    completion of the large scale bulk manufacturing component and
    construction of a warehouse. As of December 31, 2008, we
    had contractual commitments of approximately $14.5 million
    for the second phase. This second phase of the project is
    expected to be ready for commercial production in 2010.

57

Table of Contents   

The timing of the completion and anticipated licensing of the
    bulk manufacturing facility is in part dependent upon market
    acceptance of TYSABRI. See  Risk Factors   Our
    near-term success depends on the market acceptance and
    successful sales growth of TYSABRI.  We continue to
    evaluate our requirements for TYSABRI inventory and additional
    manufacturing capacity in light of the approved label and our
    judgment of the potential market acceptance of TYSABRI in MS,
    and additional approved indications in the U.S., EU and other
    jurisdictions.

Share
    Repurchase Programs   

In October 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common stock
    that expired October 4, 2006, under this program we
    repurchased 7.5 million shares at a cost of
    $320.3 million in 2006. In October 2006, our Board of
    Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional
    20.0 million shares of our common stock. This repurchase
    program does not have an expiration date. We have repurchased
    approximately 12.8 million shares of our common stock for
    $738.9 million under the share repurchase program as of
    December 31, 2008. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, we
    repurchased approximately 1.2 million additional shares
    under this program at a total cost of $57.6 million and
    have approximately 6.0 million shares remaining for
    repurchase available under this program.

Contractual
    Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

At December 31, 2008, we have funding commitments of up to
    approximately $25.5 million as part of our investment in
    biotechnology oriented venture capital funds. In addition, we
    have committed to make potential future milestone payments to
    third parties of up to approximately $1,237.7 million as
    part of our various collaborations including licensing and
    development programs. Payments under these agreements generally
    become due and payable only upon achievement of certain
    developmental, regulatory
     and/or 
    commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these
    milestones had not occurred as of December 31, 2008, such
    contingencies have not been recorded in our financial
    statements. We expect to make approximately $29.0 million
    of milestone payments in 2009.

At December 31, 2008, we have several clinical studies in
    various clinical trial stages. Our most significant clinical
    trial expenditures are to clinical research organizations, or
    CROs. The contracts with CROs are generally cancellable, with
    notice, at our option. We have recorded accrued expenses of
    $25.4 million recorded in accrued expenses on our
    consolidated balance sheet for work done by CROs at
    December 31, 2008. We have approximately
    $221.7 million in cancellable future commitments based on
    existing CRO contracts at December 31, 2008.

We do not have any significant relationships with entities often
    referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities,
    which would have been established for the purpose of
    facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not
    exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that
    could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. We
    consolidate entities within the scope of FIN 46(R) if we
    are the primary beneficiary.

The following summarizes our contractual obligations (excluding
    funding and contingent milestone payments as described above and
    construction commitments disclosed above under
     Commitments ) at December 31, 2008, and the
    effects such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity
    and cash flows in future periods (in millions):

This table includes our obligation of approximately
    $12.8 million pursuant to a dedicated resource agreement
    whereby a laboratory will provide us with dedicated services
    through 2010. This table excludes any liabilities pertaining to
    uncertain tax positions as we cannot make a reliable estimate of
    the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing
    authorities. In connection with the adoption of FASB
    Interpretation No. 48  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109 , or FIN 48, we reclassified

58

Table of Contents   

approximately $113.0 million in reserves for uncertain tax
    positions from current taxes payable to long term liabilities.
    At December 31, 2008, we have approximately
    $145.2 million of long term liabilities associated with
    uncertain tax positions.

Legal
    Matters  

See Note 19, Litigation, to the consolidated financial
    statements for a discussion of legal matters as of
    December 31, 2008.

Critical
    Accounting Estimates  

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and
    results of operations is based on our financial statements,
    which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. The preparation of these financial statements requires
    us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
    amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of
    contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
    statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
    during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management
    evaluates its critical estimates and judgments, including, among
    others, those related to revenue recognition, investments,
    inventory, research and development expenses, purchase
    accounting, goodwill impairment, stock-based compensation, and
    income taxes. Those critical estimates and assumptions are based
    on our historical experience, our observance of trends in the
    industry, and various other factors that are believed to be
    reasonable under the circumstances and form the basis for making
    judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities
    that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
    may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
    conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting estimates affect
    our more significant judgments and estimates used in the
    preparation of our consolidated financial statements:

Revenue
    Recognition and Accounts Receivable  

Product
    Revenues   

We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met:
    persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has
    occurred or services have been rendered; the seller s price
    to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is
    reasonably assured.

Revenues are recorded net of applicable reserves for trade term
    discounts, wholesaler incentives, Medicaid rebates, VA rebates,
    managed care rebates, product returns and other applicable
    allowances. Our product revenue reserves are based on estimates
    of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales.
    These estimates take into consideration our historical
    experience, current contractual and statutory requirements,
    specific known market events and trends and forecasted customer
    buying patterns. If actual results vary, we may need to adjust
    these estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the
    period of the adjustment. These estimates we make with respect
    to these allowances represent the most significant judgments
    that we make with regard to revenue recognition.

Royalties   

We receive royalty revenues under license agreements with a
    number of third parties that sell products based on technology
    developed by us or to which we have rights. The license
    agreements provide for the payment of royalties to us based on
    sales of the licensed product. We record these revenues based on
    estimates of the sales that occurred during the relevant period.
    The relevant period estimates of sales are based on interim data
    provided by licensees and analysis of historical royalties paid
    to us, adjusted for any changes in facts and circumstances, as
    appropriate. We maintain regular communication with our
    licensees in order to gauge the reasonableness of our estimates.
    Differences between actual royalty revenues and estimated
    royalty revenues are reconciled and adjusted for in the period
    which they become known, typically the following quarter.
    Historically, adjustments have not been material based on actual
    amounts paid by licensees.

59

Table of Contents   

Investments   

We invest in various types of securities, including:

short-term and long-term marketable securities, principally
    corporate notes, government securities and other asset backed
    securities, in which our excess cash balances are invested.
    Restrictions that limit the amount of investment exposure by
    institution, maturity and type are detailed in our Investment
    Policy. The objectives of this policy are safety of principal,
    liquidity and lastly yield.

equity securities in certain publicly-traded biotechnology
    companies some of which we have collaborative agreements
    with; and

equity securities of certain companies whose securities are not
    publicly traded and where fair value is not readily available.

These investments are accounted for in accordance with Statement
    of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115,  Accounting
    for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities , or
    SFAS 115, or APB No. 18,  The Equity Method of
    Accounting for Investments in Common , or APB 18, as
    appropriate.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement , or SFAS 157,
    we have classified our financial assets and liabilities as
    Level 1, 2 or 3 within the fair value hierarchy. Fair
    values determined by Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices
    (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or
    liabilities that we have the ability to access. Fair values
    determined by Level 2 inputs utilize data points that are
    observable such as quoted prices, interest rates and yield
    curves. Fair values determined by Level 3 inputs utilize
    unobservable data points for the asset or liability.

As noted in Note 3, Fair Value Measurements, a majority of
    our financial assets and liabilities have been classified as
    Level 2. These assets and liabilities have been initially
    valued at the transaction price and subsequently valued
    utilizing third party pricing services. The pricing services use
    many observable market inputs to determine value, including
    reportable trades, benchmark yields, credit spreads,
    broker/dealer quotes, bids, offers, current spot rates, other
    industry, and economic events. We validate the prices provided
    by our third party pricing services by understanding the models
    used, obtaining market values from other pricing sources, and
    analyzing pricing data in certain instances.

We also have some investments classified as Level 3 whose
    fair value is initially measured at transaction prices and
    subsequently valued using the pricing of recent financing
     and/or  by
    reviewing the underlying economic fundamentals and liquidation
    value of the companies. We apply judgments and estimates when we
    validate the prices provided by third parties. While we believe
    the valuation methodologies are appropriate, the use of
    valuation methodologies is highly judgmental and changes in
    methodologies can have a material impact on our results of
    operations.

Impairment   

In accounting for investments, we evaluate if a decline in the
    fair value of a marketable security below our cost basis is
    other-than-temporary, and if so, we record an impairment charge
    in our consolidated statement of income. The factors that we
    consider in our assessments for our investments in debt
    securities include the fair market value of the security, the
    duration of the security s decline, and our ability and
    intent to hold to maturity. For our investments in equity
    securities, we consider the fair market value of the security,
    the duration of the security s decline as well as prospects
    for the investee, including favorable clinical trial results,
    new product initiatives, new collaborative agreements and our
    intent and ability to hold to recovery. The determination of
    whether a loss is other than temporary is highly judgmental and
    can have a material impact on our financial results.

Inventory   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost
    determined under the
     first-in, 
    first-out, or FIFO, method. Included in inventory are raw
    materials used in the production of pre-clinical and clinical
    products, which are expensed as research and development costs
    when consumed.

60

Table of Contents   

Our policy is to capitalize inventory costs associated with our
    products prior to regulatory approval, when, based on
    management s judgment, future commercialization is
    considered probable and the future economic benefit is expected
    to be realized. Our accounting policy addresses the attributes
    that should be considered in evaluating whether the costs to
    manufacture a product have met the definition of an asset as
    stipulated in FASB Concepts Statement No. 6,  Elements of
    Financial Statements   A Replacement of FASB Concepts
    No. 3 , or FASB Concepts Statement No. 6. We assess
    the regulatory approval process and where the particular product
    stands in relation to that approval process including any known
    constraints and impediments to approval, including safety,
    efficacy and potential labeling restrictions. We evaluate our
    anticipated research and development initiatives and constraints
    relating to the product and the indication in which it will be
    used. We consider our manufacturing environment including our
    supply chain in determining logistical constraints that could
    possibly hamper approval or commercialization. We consider the
    shelf life of the product in relation to the expected timeline
    for approval and we consider patent related or contract issues
    that may prevent or cause delay in commercialization. We are
    sensitive to the significant commitment of capital to scale up
    production and to launch commercialization strategies. We also
    base our judgment on the viability of commercialization, trends
    in the marketplace and market acceptance criteria. Finally, we
    consider the reimbursement strategies that may prevail with
    respect to the product and assess the economic benefit that we
    are likely to realize.

There is a risk inherent in these judgments and any changes we
    make in these judgments may have a material impact on our
    results in future periods.

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value. If the actual
    net realizable value is less than that estimated by us, or if
    there are any further determinations that inventory will not be
    marketable based on estimates of demand, additional inventory
    write-downs will be required. Additionally, our products are
    subject to strict quality control and monitoring throughout the
    manufacturing process. Periodically, certain batches or units of
    product may no longer meet quality specifications or may expire.
    As a result, included in costs of goods sold are write-downs of
    commercial inventory that do not meet quality specifications or
    became obsolete due to expiration.

Research
    and Development Expenses   

Research and development expenses consist of upfront fees and
    milestones paid to collaborators and expenses incurred in
    performing research and development activities including
    salaries and benefits, facilities expenses, overhead expenses,
    clinical trial and related clinical manufacturing expenses,
    contract services and other outside expenses. Research and
    development expenses are expensed as incurred. The timing of
    upfront fees and milestone payments in the future may cause
    variability in future research and development expense. Clinical
    trial expenses include expenses associated with contract
    research organizations, or CROs. The invoicing from CROs for
    services rendered can lag several months. We accrue the cost of
    services rendered in connection with CRO activities based on our
    estimate of site management, monitoring costs, and project
    management costs. We maintain regular communication with our CRO
    vendors to gauge the reasonableness of our estimates.
    Differences between actual clinical trial expenses and estimated
    clinical trial expenses recorded have not been material and are
    adjusted for in the period in which they become known.

Valuation
    of Acquired Intangible Assets and In-process Research and
    Development Expenses   

We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, intangible
    assets primarily through the acquisition of biotechnology
    companies. These intangible assets primarily consist of
    technology associated with human therapeutic products and
    in-process product candidates. When significant identifiable
    intangible assets are acquired, an independent third-party
    valuation firm is generally engaged to assist in determining the
    fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date.
    Management will determine the fair value of less significant
    identifiable intangible assets acquired. Discounted cash flow
    models are typically used in these valuations, and these models
    require the use of significant estimates and assumptions
    including but not limited to:

estimating the timing of and expected costs to complete the
    in-process projects;

projecting regulatory approvals;

61

Table of Contents   

estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from
    completed products and in-process projects; and

developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by
    project.

We believe the fair values assigned to the intangible assets
    acquired are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions
    given available facts and circumstances as of the acquisition
    dates.

FIN 46(R)   

Under FIN 46(R) ,  we consolidate variable interest
    entities for which we are the primary beneficiary. In
    determining whether we are the primary beneficiary, we consider
    a number of factors, including determining the expected losses
    and residual returns of the technologies being developed
    pursuant to collaborations and other economic risk and reward of
    such collaborations. Discounted cash flow models are typically
    used in these analyses and these models require the use of
    significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited
    to:

assuming that the research and development efforts will result
    in an approved commercial product;

estimating the timing of and expected costs to complete the
    in-process projects;

projecting timing of regulatory approvals;

estimating future cash inflows from product sales or funding
    from partners resulting from completed products and in-process
    projects; and

developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by
    project.

For such consolidated entities that we own less than a 100%
    interest, we record minority interest in our statement of income
    for the current results allocated to the outside equity
    interests. FIN 46(R) impacts the way we account for certain
    collaborations and future events may result in our consolidation
    of companies or related entities with which we have a
    collaborative arrangement. The consolidation of variable
    interest entities may have a material effect on our financial
    condition
     and/or 
    results of operation in future periods.

Goodwill   

We annually assess our goodwill balance to determine whether any
    impairment in this asset may exist and, if so, the extent of
    such impairment. To do this, in the case of goodwill we estimate
    the fair value of each of our reporting units and compare it to
    the book value of their net assets. Calculating fair value
    involves identifying future cash flows, which requires that we
    make a number of critical legal, economic, market and business
    assumptions that reflect our best estimates as of the testing
    date. We believe the methods we use to determine these
    underlying assumptions and estimates are reasonable.
    Notwithstanding this, our assumptions and estimates may differ
    significantly from actual results, or circumstances could change
    that would cause us to conclude that an impairment now exists or
    that we previously understated the extent of impairment.

Share-based
    Compensation   

We make certain assumptions in order to value and expense our
    share-based compensation. In connection with valuing stock
    options and our employee stock purchase plan, we use the
    Black-Scholes model, which requires us to estimate certain
    subjective assumptions. The key assumptions we make are: the
    expected volatility of our stock; the expected term of the
    award; and the expected forfeiture rate. In connection with our
    restricted stock programs, we make assumptions principally
    related to the forfeiture rate.

We review our valuation assumptions periodically and, as a
    result, we may change our valuation assumptions used to value
    share-based awards granted in future periods. Such changes may
    lead to a significant change in the expense we recognize in
    connection with share-based payments.

62

Table of Contents   

Income
    Taxes   

In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate
    our income tax liability in each of the jurisdictions in which
    we operate by estimating our actual current tax expense together
    with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing
    treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes.
    These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities,
    which are included in our consolidated balance sheets.
    Significant management judgment is required in assessing the
    realizability of our deferred tax assets. In performing this
    assessment, we consider whether it is more likely than not that
    some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
    realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is
    dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during
    the periods in which those temporary differences become
    deductible. In making this determination, under the applicable
    financial accounting standards, we are allowed to consider the
    scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future
    taxable income, and the effects of viable tax planning
    strategies. Our estimates of future taxable income include,
    among other items, our estimates of future income tax deductions
    related to the exercise of stock options. In the event that
    actual results differ from our estimates, we adjust our
    estimates in future periods and we may need to establish a
    valuation allowance, which could materially impact our financial
    position and results of operations.

FASB
    Interpretation No. 48   

Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48.
    FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
    taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in
    accordance with FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for
    Income Taxes,  or SFAS 109. FIN 48 also prescribes
    a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the
    financial statement recognition and measurement of each tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As a
    result of the adoption of FIN 48, we recognized a reduction
    in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of
    $14.2 million, which was recorded as a $1.8 million
    reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of our accumulated
    deficit, a $9.1 million reduction in goodwill and a
    $3.3 million increase in our deferred tax liability.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in millions):

Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at
    December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007, and
    January 1, 2007, are $155.1 million,
    $110.5 million, and $98.2 million (net of the federal
    benefit on state issues), respectively, of unrecognized tax
    benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective income
    tax rate in any future periods. We do not anticipate any
    significant changes in our positions in the next twelve months.

New
    Accounting Standards  

See Note 27, New Accounting Pronouncements, for a
    discussion of new accounting standards.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

We have operations in Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, New
    Zealand, Japan, China, India and throughout Europe in connection
    with the sale of AVONEX, TYSABRI and FUMADERM. We also receive
    royalty revenues based on worldwide product sales by our
    licensees and through Genentech on sales of RITUXAN outside of
    the U.S. As a result, our financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows can be affected by market fluctuations
    in foreign currency exchange rates (primarily Euro, Danish
    kroner, Swedish krona, British pound, Japanese yen, Canadian
    dollar and Swiss franc).

63

Table of Contents   

We use foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign
    currency risk but do not engage in currency speculation. We use
    these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted transactions
    denominated in foreign currencies. A hypothetical adverse 10%
    movement in foreign exchange rates compared to the
    U.S. dollar across all maturities (for example, a
    strengthening of the Euro) would result in a hypothetical
    decrease in the fair value of forward contracts of approximately
    $52.4 million. Our use of this methodology to quantify the
    market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an
    endorsement of its accuracy or the accuracy of the related
    assumptions. The quantitative information about market risk is
    necessarily limited because it does not take into account
    operating transactions.

Certain of our debt instruments are variable rate instruments
    and our interest expense associated with these instruments is,
    therefore, subject to changes in market interest rates. A 100
    basis-point adverse movement (increase in LIBOR) would increase
    annual interest expense by approximately $0.2 million.

In addition, the fair value of our marketable securities is
    subject to change as a result of potential changes in market
    interest rates. The potential change in fair value for interest
    rate sensitive instruments has been assessed on a hypothetical
    100 basis point adverse movement across all maturities. We
    estimate that such hypothetical adverse 100 basis point
    movement would result in a hypothetical loss in fair value of
    approximately $12.2 million to our interest rate sensitive
    instruments.

The returns from cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities will vary as short-term interest rates change. A 100
    basis-point adverse movement (decrease) in short-term interest
    rates would decrease interest income by approximately
    $11.9 million.

We are exposed to equity price risks on the marketable portion
    of equity securities included in our portfolio of investments
    entered into for the promotion of business and strategic
    objectives. These investments are generally in small
    capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. We
    regularly review the market prices of these investments for
    impairment purposes. A hypothetical adverse 10% movement in
    market values would result in a hypothetical loss in fair value
    of approximately $0.9 million.

Item 8.      

Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

The information required by this Item 8 is contained on
    pages  F-1 
    through  F-64 
    of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

Not applicable.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting  

Controls
    and Procedures   

We have carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and the
    participation of our management, including our principal
    executive officer and principal financial officer, of the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the
    Securities Exchange Act), as of December 31, 2008. Based
    upon that evaluation, our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer concluded that, as of the end of
    that period, our disclosure controls and procedures are
    effective in providing reasonable assurance that (a) the
    information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that
    we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded,
    processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
    specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and (b) such
    information is accumulated and communicated to our management,
    including our principal executive officer and principal
    financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
    regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating our
    disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized
    that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed
    and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving
    the desired control objectives,

64

Table of Contents   

and our management necessarily was required to apply its
    judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible
    controls and procedures.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us
    to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls
    over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and
    to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of
    our internal control over financial reporting in all annual
    reports. There were no changes in our internal control over
    financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31,
    2008 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
    materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management s
    Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting   

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
    control over financial reporting is defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act as a process designed by, or
    under the supervision of, a company s principal executive
    and principal financial officers and effected by a
    company s board of directors, management and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. Our internal control
    over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
    that:

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
    detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
    dispositions of our assets;

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
    that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in
    accordance with authorizations of our management and
    directors; and

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our
    assets that could have a material effect on the financial
    statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.
    In making this assessment, management used the criteria set
    forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework.

Based on our assessment, our management has concluded that, as
    of December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial
    reporting is effective based on those criteria.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included
    herein.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

Not applicable.

65

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information concerning our executive officers is set forth
    in Part I of this
     Form 10-K. 
    The text of our code of business conduct, which includes the
    code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer,
    principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or
    controller, and persons performing similar functions, is posted
    on our website, www.biogenidec.com, under the  Corporate
    Governance  subsection of the  Company  section
    of the site. Disclosure regarding any amendments to, or waivers
    from, provisions of our code of business conduct, if required,
    will be included in a Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    within four business days following the date of the amendment or
    waiver, unless website posting of such amendments or waivers is
    permitted by the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. Our
    corporate governance principles (also posted on
    www.biogenidec.com) prohibit our Board of Directors from
    granting any waiver of the code of ethics for any of our
    directors or executive officers. We include our website address
    in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be
    an active link to our website.

The response to the remainder of this item is incorporated by
    reference from the discussion responsive thereto in the sections
    labeled  Proposal 1   Election of
    Directors   Information about our Board of Directors
    and its Committees  and  Stock Ownership  
    Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  contained in the proxy statement for our 2009
    annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the section labeled
     Executive Compensation and Related Information 
    contained in the proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting of
    stockholders.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections labeled
     Stock Ownership  and  Disclosure with Respect to
    our Equity Compensation Plans  contained in the proxy
    statement for our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections labeled
     Proposal 1   Election of Directors
      Information about our Board of Directors and its
    Committees,   Executive Compensation and Related
    Information   Potential Payments Upon Termination or
    Change in Control,  and  Certain Relationships and
    Related Person Transactions  contained in the proxy
    statement for our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the section labeled
     Proposal 2   Ratification of the Selection
    of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    contained in the proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting of
    stockholders.

66

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules   

a. (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements: 

The Financial Statements required to be filed by Item 8 of
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    and filed in this Item 15, are as follows:

Page Number 

in This 

Financial Statements 

Form 10-K 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders 
    Equity 

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-7

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

F-64

(2)  Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or are
    not required, or because the information is included in the
    consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

(3)  Exhibits: 

The exhibits which are filed or furnished with this report or
    which are incorporated herein by reference are set forth in the
    Exhibit Index beginning on
     page A-1, 
    which is incorporated herein by reference.

67

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

BIOGEN IDEC INC.

By: 

/s/   James
    C. Mullen 

James C. Mullen

Chief Executive Officer and President

Date: February 6, 2009

Pursuant to the requirements the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
    behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
    indicated.

Name 

Capacity 

Date 

/s/   James
    C. Mullen 

James
    C. Mullen

Director, Chief Executive Officer and President (principal
    executive officer)

February 6, 2009

/s/   Paul
    J. Clancy 

Paul
    J. Clancy

Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief  
    Financial Officer (principal  
    financial officer)

February 6, 2009

/s/   Michael
    F. MacLean 

Michael
    F. MacLean

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  
    (principal accounting officer)

February 6, 2009

/s/   Bruce
    R. Ross 

Bruce
    R. Ross

Director; Chairman of the Board of Directors

February 6, 2009

/s/   Lawrence
    C. Best 

Lawrence
    C. Best

Director

February 6, 2009

/s/   Marijn
    E. Dekkers 

Marijn
    E. Dekkers

Director

February 3, 2009

/s/   Alan
    B. Glassberg  

Alan
    B. Glassberg, M.D. 

Director

February 6, 2009

/s/   Nancy
    L. Leaming 

Nancy
    L. Leaming

Director

February 6, 2009

/s/   Robert
    W. Pangia 

Robert
    W. Pangia

Director

February 6, 2009

/s/   Stelios
    Papadopoulos 

Stelios
    Papadopoulos

Director

February 6, 2009

68

Table of Contents   

Name 

Capacity 

Date 

/s/   Cecil
    B. Pickett 

Cecil
    B. Pickett

Director

February 6, 2009

/s/   Brian
    S. Posner 

Brian
    S. Posner

Director

February 6, 2009

/s/   Lynn
    Schenk 

Lynn
    Schenk

Director

February 6, 2009

/s/   Phillip
    A. Sharp 

Phillip
    A. Sharp, Ph.D. 

Director

February 6, 2009

/s/   William
    D. Young 

William
    D. Young

Director

February 6, 2009

69

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC.  AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Page 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders 
    Equity 

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-7

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

F-64

F-1

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements

F-2

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS   

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements

F-3

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

See Note 1, Business Overview and Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies, for a discussion of non-cash securities
    lending activities that occurred during the period.

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements

F-4

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY   

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY   (Continued)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

1.    

Business
    Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  

Overview   

Biogen Idec Inc. is an international biotechnology company that
    creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high
    unmet medical needs. We currently market four products:
    AVONEX   ,

    RITUXAN   ,

    TYSABRI   

    and
    FUMADERM   .

Principles
    of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements reflect our financial
    statements, those of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and of our
    joint ventures in Italy and Switzerland, Biogen Dompe SRL and
    Biogen Dompe Switzerland Gmbh, respectively. In accordance with
    FASB Interpretation No. 46 (Revised 2003),  Consolidation
    of Variable Interest Entities , or FIN 46(R), we
    consolidate variable interest entities in which we are the
    primary beneficiary. For such consolidated entities in which we
    own less than a 100% interest, we record minority interest in
    our statement of income for the ownership interest of the
    minority owner. All material intercompany balances and
    transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
    requires our management to make estimates and judgments that may
    affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
    expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and
    liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates,
    including those related to revenue recognition and related
    allowances, marketable securities, derivatives and hedging
    activities, inventory, impairments of long-lived assets,
    including intangible assets, impairments of goodwill, income
    taxes including the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets,
    valuation of long-lived assets and investments, research and
    development, contingencies and litigation, and share-based
    payments. We base our estimates on historical experience and on
    various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable,
    the results of which form the basis for making judgments about
    the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results
    may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
    conditions.

Translation
    of Foreign Currencies   

The functional currency for most of our foreign subsidiaries is
    their local currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at
    current rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Income and
    expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for
    the period. Adjustments resulting from the translation of the
    financial statements of our foreign operations into
    U.S. dollars are excluded from the determination of net
    income and are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
    income, a separate component of shareholders  equity.

Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses are included in
    the results of operations in other income (expense), net. We had
    net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $(9.8) million,
    $3.0 million, and $4.9 million in 2008, 2007, and
    2006, respectively.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

We consider only those investments which are highly liquid,
    readily convertible to cash and that mature within three months
    from date of purchase to be cash equivalents.

Fair
    Value Measurements   

Effective January 1, 2008, we implemented Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standard No. 157, Fair Value
    Measurement, or SFAS 157, for our financial assets and
    liabilities that are re-measured and reported at fair value at
    each reporting period, and non-financial assets and liabilities
    that are re-measured and reported at fair value at least

F-7

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

annually. In accordance with the provisions of FSP
     No. FAS 157-2, 
    Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157, we have elected
    to defer implementation of SFAS 157 as it relates to our
    non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities that are
    recognized and disclosed at fair value in the financial
    statements on a nonrecurring basis until January 1, 2009.

The adoption of SFAS 157 for financial assets and
    liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are
    re-measured and reported at fair value at least annually did not
    have an impact on our financial results.

We have certain financial assets and liabilities recorded at
    fair value which have been classified as Level 1, 2 or 3
    within the fair value hierarchy as described in SFAS 157.
    Fair values determined by Level 1 inputs utilize quoted
    prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or
    liabilities that we have the ability to access. Fair values
    determined by Level 2 inputs utilize data points that are
    observable such as quoted prices, interest rates and yield
    curves. Fair values determined by Level 3 inputs utilize
    unobservable data points for the asset or liability.

Our publicly traded strategic investments have been classified
    as Level 1 because their fair value are based on quoted
    market prices. All of our marketable debt securities have been
    classified as Level 2. These assets have been initially
    valued at the transaction price and subsequently valued
    utilizing market-based inputs, including reportable trades,
    benchmark yields, credit spreads, broker/dealer quotes, bids,
    offers, current spot rates, other industry, and economic events.
    The fair values of our foreign currency forward contracts,
    interest rate swaps, debt instruments and plan assets for
    deferred compensation are based on market inputs and have been
    classified as Level 2. We also have some investments
    classified as Level 3 whose fair value is initially
    measured at transaction prices and subsequently valued using the
    pricing of recent financing
     and/or  by
    reviewing the underlying economic fundamentals and liquidation
    value of the companies.

The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance
    sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, due
    from unconsolidated joint business, other current assets,
    accounts payable, and accrued expenses and other, approximate
    fair value due to their short-term maturities.

Inventory   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost
    determined under the
     first-in, 
    first-out, or FIFO, method. Included in inventory are raw
    materials used in the production of pre-clinical and clinical
    products, which are charged to research and development expense
    when consumed.

The components of inventories are as follows (in millions):

Capitalization
    of Inventory Costs  

We capitalize inventory costs associated with our products prior
    to regulatory approval when, based on management s
    judgment, future commercialization is considered probable and
    the future economic benefit is expected to be realized. We
    consider numerous attributes in evaluating whether the costs to
    manufacture a particular product should be capitalized as an
    asset. We assess the regulatory approval process and where the
    product stands in relation to that approval process including
    any known constraints and impediments to approval, including
    safety, efficacy and potential labeling restrictions. We
    evaluate our anticipated research and development initiatives
    and constraints relating to the particular product and the
    indication in which it will be used. We consider our

F-8

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

manufacturing environment including our supply chain in
    determining logistical constraints that could possibly hamper
    approval or commercialization. We consider the shelf life of the
    product in relation to the expected timeline for approval and we
    consider patent related or contract issues that may prevent or
    cause delay in commercialization. We are sensitive to the
    significant commitment of capital to scale up production and to
    launch commercialization strategies. We also base our judgment
    on the viability of commercialization, trends in the marketplace
    and market acceptance criteria. Finally, we consider the
    reimbursement strategies that may prevail with respect to the
    product and assess the economic benefit that we are likely to
    realize. We expense previously capitalized costs related to
    pre-approval inventory upon a change in such judgment, due to,
    among other potential factors, a denial or delay of approval by
    necessary regulatory bodies. As of December 31, 2008 and
    2007, the carrying value of our inventory did not include any
    costs associated with products that had not yet received
    regulatory approval.

Inventory
    Write-Offs  

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value. If the actual
    realizable value is less than that estimated by us, or if it is
    determined that inventory utilization will further diminish
    based on estimates of demand, additional inventory write-downs
    may be required.

Our products are subject to strict quality control and
    monitoring which we perform throughout the manufacturing
    process. Periodically, certain batches or units of product may
    no longer meet quality specifications or may expire. As a
    result, included in cost of sales were write-downs of commercial
    inventory that did not meet quality specifications or that
    became obsolete due to dating expiration. In all cases product
    inventory is written-down to its estimated net realizable value.

We have written-down the following unmarketable inventory, which
    was charged to cost of sales (in millions):

The write-downs were the result of the following (in millions):

Marketable
    Securities and Investments   

Marketable
    Securities, including Strategic Investments  

Until required for use in the business, we invest our cash
    reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial
    paper, corporate notes, foreign and U.S. government
    instruments, asset backed securities and other debt instruments.
    We limit the amount of investment exposure as to institution,
    maturity and investment type. At December 31, 2008, all of
    these securities were classified as
     available-for-sale  in accordance with Statement of

F-9

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Financial Accounting Standards No. 115,  Accounting for
    Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities , or
    SFAS 115. All available-for-sale securities are recorded at
    fair market value and unrealized gains and losses, to the extent
    deemed temporary, are included in accumulated other
    comprehensive income in shareholders  equity, net of
    related tax effects. Realized gains and losses are reported in
    other income (expense) net. Declines in value determined to be
    other than temporary on available for sale securities are
    reported in other income (expense) net. This can include losses
    due to, among other factors, changes in credit quality, interest
    rates, or value declines resulting from the disruption in the
    capital markets during the latter half of 2008. Valuation of
    available-for-sale securities for purposes of determining the
    amount of gains and losses is based on the specific
    identification method.

As part of our strategic product development efforts, we invest
    in equity securities of certain biotechnology companies some of
    which we have collaborative agreements with such investments are
    known as strategic investments and are classified as available
    for sale and accounted for as marketable securities or as cost
    investments under Accounting Principles Board Opinion
    No. 18,  The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments
    in Common Stock,  or APB 18 and related interpretations.
    When assessing whether a decline in the fair value of a
    strategic investment below our cost basis is
    other-than-temporary, we consider the fair market value of the
    security, the duration of the security s decline, and
    prospects for the underlying business, including favorable
    clinical trial results, new product initiatives and new
    collaborative agreements.

Non-Marketable
    Securities  

We also invest in equity securities of companies whose
    securities are not publicly traded and where fair value is not
    readily available. These investments are recorded using either
    the cost method or the equity method of accounting, depending on
    our percentage ownership interest and other factors which may
    indicate the existence of significant influence, as required by
    APB 18 and related interpretations. We monitor these
    investments to evaluate whether any decline in their value has
    occurred that would be other than temporary, based on the
    implied value from any recent rounds of financing completed by
    the investee, market prices of comparable public companies, and
    general market conditions.

Securities
    lending  

We loan certain securities from our portfolio to other
    institutions. Such securities are classified as loaned
    securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
    Collateral for the loaned securities, consisting of cash or
    other securities is maintained at a rate of approximately 102%
    of the market value of each loaned security. We held cash as
    collateral in the amount of $30.0 million and
    $208.2 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. The cash collateral is recorded as collateral
    received for loaned securities on the consolidated balance
    sheet. We have a current obligation to return the collateral
    which is reflected as collateral received on loaned securities
    on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Income received
    from lending securities is recorded in other income (expense),
    net.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, subject to
    review for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may
    not be recoverable. Depreciation is generally calculated on the
    straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
    assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of
    the useful life or the term of the respective lease. Maintenance
    costs are expensed as incurred. Buildings and building
    components are depreciated over estimated useful lives ranging
    from 15 to 40 years, machinery and equipment from 6 to
    15 years, furniture and fixtures for 7 years and
    computer software and hardware from 3 to 5 years. Interest
    costs incurred during the construction of major capital projects
    are capitalized in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 34,  Capitalization of Interest
    Costs,  or SFAS 34. The interest is capitalized until
    the underlying asset is ready for its intended use, at which
    point the interest cost is amortized as depreciation expense
    over the life of the underlying asset. We capitalize certain
    direct

F-10

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

and incremental costs associated with the validation effort
    required for licensing by regulatory agencies of manufacturing
    equipment for the production of a commercially approved drug.
    These costs include primarily direct labor and material and are
    incurred in preparing the equipment for its intended use. The
    validation costs are amortized over the life of the related
    equipment.

Intangible
    Assets, excluding Goodwill   

Our intangible assets consist of patents, trademarks and
    tradenames, core technology, licenses, assembled workforce and
    distribution rights, the majority of which arose in connection
    with the merger of Biogen, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation or the Merger. These intangible assets were recorded
    at fair value and are stated net of accumulated amortization and
    impairments.

Intangible assets related to patents, core technology, licenses,
    assembled workforce and distribution rights are amortized over
    their remaining estimated useful lives, ranging from 2 to
    20 years. Our amortization policy for intangible assets is
    based on the principles in Statement of Financial Standards
    No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , or
    SFAS 142, which requires the amortization of intangible
    assets reflect the pattern that the economic benefits of the
    intangible asset are consumed. We believe the economic benefit
    of our core technology is consumed as revenue is generated from
    our AVONEX product. Every year during the third quarter we
    complete our long range planning cycle, which includes an
    analysis of the anticipated product sales of AVONEX. The results
    of this forecast serve as the basis for our assumptions used in
    the economic consumption amortization model for our core
    technology intangible assets. Although we believe our process
    has allowed us to reliably determine our best estimate of the
    pattern in which we will consume the economic benefits of the
    core technology intangible assets, the model results in
    deferring amortization charges to future periods in certain
    instances, including the impact of continued sales of the
    product at a nominal level after patent expiration.
    Consequently, in establishing our methodology, we considered
    models that would prevent deferring amortization charges to
    future periods such as the model described in paragraph 8
    of Statement of Financial Standards No. 86,  Accounting
    for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or
    Otherwise Marketed,  or SFAS 86. In order to ensure
    amortization charges are not unreasonably deferred to future
    periods, we use the straight-line method to determine the
    minimum annual amount of amortization expense, or the minimum.
    The long range planning process determines whether amortization
    will be based on an economic consumption or the minimum and,
    thus, the amount of amortization for the next four quarters.
    Amortization is currently based on the economic consumption
    model.

Intangible assets related to trademarks and tradenames have
    indefinite lives, and as a result are not amortized, but are
    subject to review for impairment. We review our intangible
    assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, as of
    October 31, and whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be
    recoverable.

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets   

Long-lived assets to be held and used, including property plant
    and equipment as well as intangible assets are reviewed for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
    that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
    Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment
    include a significant decline in the observable market value of
    an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which
    an asset is used, or a significant adverse change that would
    indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets
    is not recoverable. Determination of recoverability is based on
    an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the
    use of the asset and its eventual disposition. In the event that
    such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the
    carrying amount of the assets, the assets are written-down to
    their estimated fair values. Long-lived assets to be disposed of
    are carried at fair value less costs to sell.

F-11

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Goodwill   

Goodwill relates largely to amounts that arose in connection
    with the Merger and represents the difference between the
    purchase price and the fair value of the identifiable tangible
    and intangible net assets when accounted for using the purchase
    method of accounting. Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject
    to periodic review for impairment. Goodwill is reviewed
    annually, as of October 31, and whenever events or changes
    in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the
    goodwill might not be recoverable.

Income
    Taxes   

The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, local
    and foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the
    liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
    recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of
    temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
    amounts and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
    apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary
    differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We evaluate
    the realizability of our deferred tax assets and establish a
    valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or
    a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized.

We account for uncertain tax positions in accordance with FASB
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109 , or FIN 48. FIN 48 prescribes a
    recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial
    statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
    expected to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance
    on various related matters such as derecognition, interest and
    penalties, and disclosure. We also accrue for potential interest
    and penalties, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income
    tax expense.

Derivatives
    and Hedging Activities   

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,
     or SFAS 133, requires that all derivatives be
    recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in
    the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in
    current earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss), depending on whether a derivative is designated as part
    of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge
    transaction. We assess, both at inception and on an on-going
    basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging
    transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes in
    cash flows or fair values of the hedged items. We also assess
    hedge ineffectiveness on a quarterly basis and record the gain
    or loss related to the ineffective portion to current earnings
    to the extent significant. If we determine that a forecasted
    transaction is no longer probable of occurring, we discontinue
    hedge accounting for the affected portion of the hedge
    instrument, and any related unrealized gain or loss on the
    contract is recognized in current earnings.

Comprehensive
    Income (Loss)   

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130,
     Reporting Comprehensive Income,  or SFAS 130,
    requires us to display comprehensive income (loss) and its
    components as part of our financial statements. Comprehensive
    income (loss) is comprised of net income and other comprehensive
    income (loss). Other comprehensive income (loss) includes
    changes in equity that are excluded from net income, such as
    foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized holding
    gains and losses on available-for-sale marketable securities and
    certain derivative instruments, and effective December 31,
    2006, the unfunded amount of our postretirement and pension
    plans. All of these changes in equity are reflected net of tax.

Segment
    Information   

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131,
     Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
    Information,  or SFAS 131, establishes standards for
    reporting information on operating segments in interim

F-12

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

and annual financial statements. We operate in one segment,
    which is the business of development, manufacturing and
    commercialization of novel therapeutics for human health care.
    Our chief operating decision-maker reviews our operating results
    on an aggregate basis and manages our operations as a single
    operating segment.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Product
    Revenues  

We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met:
    persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has
    occurred or services have been rendered; the seller s price
    to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is
    reasonably assured.

Revenues from product sales are recognized when title and risk
    of loss have passed to the customer, which is typically upon
    delivery. However, sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. are
    recognized on the  sell-through  model, that is, upon
    shipment of the product by Elan to its third party distributor
    rather than upon shipment to Elan. The timing of distributor
    orders and shipments can cause variability in earnings.

Revenues are recorded net of applicable allowances for trade
    term discounts, wholesaler incentives, Medicaid rebates,
    Veteran s Administration, or VA, rebates, managed care
    rebates, product returns and other applicable allowances.

TYSABRI  

In November 2004, TYSABRI was approved by the U.S. Food and
    Drug Administration, or FDA, as a treatment for relapsing forms
    of MS to reduce the frequency of clinical relapses. In February
    2005, in consultation with the FDA, we and Elan voluntarily
    suspended the marketing and commercial distribution of TYSABRI,
    and we informed physicians that they should suspend dosing of
    TYSABRI until further notification. On June 5, 2006, the
    FDA approved a supplemental Biologics License Application, or
    sBLA, for the reintroduction of TYSABRI as a monotherapy
    treatment for relapsing forms of MS to slow the progression of
    disability and reduce the frequency of clinical relapses. On
    June 29, 2006, we and Elan announced that the European
    Medicines Agency, or EMEA, had approved TYSABRI as a similar
    treatment. In July 2006, we began to ship TYSABRI in both the
    United States and rest of world.

Subsequent to the reintroduction of TYSABRI for sale in the
    U.S. and approval for sale in Europe, we began to ship
    TYSABRI into both regions in the third quarter of 2006. We
    manufacture TYSABRI and collaborate with Elan on the
    product s marketing, distribution and on-going development
    activities. The collaboration agreement with Elan is designed to
    effect an equal sharing of profits and losses generated by the
    activities of the collaboration between us and Elan. Under our
    agreement with Elan, however, in the event that sales of TYSABRI
    exceed specified thresholds, Elan is required to make milestone
    payments to us in order to continue sharing equally in the
    collaboration s results. During the year ended
    December 31, 2008, pursuant to our collaboration agreement
    with Elan, Elan paid us a $75.0 million milestone payment
    in order to maintain the current collaboration profit sharing
    split. We recorded this amount as deferred revenue upon receipt
    and are recognizing this $75.0 million as product revenue
    in our consolidated statement of income over the term of our
    collaboration with Elan based on a units of revenue method,
    whereby the revenue recognized is based on the ratio of units
    shipped in the current period over the total units expected to
    be shipped over the remaining term of the collaboration. We have
    recognized $1.5 million of this milestone as revenue for
    the year ended December 31, 2008. Based on the TYSABRI
    sales levels achieved through the fourth quarter of 2008, in
    January 2009, Elan paid us an additional milestone payment of
    $50.0 million in order to maintain the current
    collaboration profit sharing split. Revenue from this milestone
    payment will also be deferred and recognized on a units of
    revenue model.

In the U.S., we sell TYSABRI to Elan who sells the product to
    third party distributors. We and Elan co-market the product. The
    sales price to Elan in the U.S. is set at the beginning of
    each quarterly period to effect an equal

F-13

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

sharing of the gross margin between Elan and us. In addition,
    both parties share equally in the operating costs, which include
    research and development, selling, general and administrative
    expenses and other similar costs. Elan s reimbursement of
    TYSABRI operating costs is reflected as a reduction of the
    respective costs within our consolidated statement of income.
    Sales of TYSABRI to Elan are reported as revenues and are
    recognized upon Elan s shipment of the product to third
    party distributors, at which time all revenue recognition
    criteria have been met. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    we had deferred revenue of $6.2 million and
    $9.0 million, respectively, for shipments to Elan that
    remained in Elan s ending inventory.

For sales outside the U.S., we are responsible for distributing
    TYSABRI to customers and are primarily responsible for all
    operating activities. Both parties share equally in the
    operating results of TYSABRI operations outside the
    U.S. Sales of TYSABRI are reported as revenue and are
    recognized at the time of shipment of product to our customer,
    as all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Payments to
    or from Elan for their share of collaboration net operating
    profits or losses relating to sales outside the U.S. are
    reflected in the collaboration profit (loss) sharing line in our
    consolidated statement of income. For 2008, 2007, and 2006,
    collaboration profit (loss) sharing was $136.0 million,
    $14.1 million, and ($9.7) million, respectively, in
    connection with this arrangement.

Reserves
    for Discounts and Allowances   

We establish reserves for trade term discounts, wholesaler
    incentives, Medicaid rebates, VA rebates, managed care rebates,
    product returns and other applicable allowances and in 2006,
    patient assistance and patient replacement goods. Such reserves
    are classified as reductions of accounts receivable (if the
    amount is payable to our customer) or a liability (if the amount
    is payable to a party other than our customer).

Effective January 1, 2007, we changed the manner in which
    we administer our patient assistance and patient replacement
    goods programs. Prior to January 1, 2007, AVONEX product
    shipped for these programs was invoiced and recorded as gross
    product revenue and an offsetting provision for discount and
    returns was recorded for expected credit requests from the
    distributor that administers these programs on our behalf (as
    such, no net revenue was recorded for these shipments).
    Effective January 1, 2007, we entered into a new
    arrangement with the distributor. Under the new arrangement,
    gross revenue is not recorded for product shipped to satisfy
    these programs, and cost of sales is recorded when the product
    is shipped.

F-14

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

An analysis of the amount of, and change in, reserves is as
    follows (in millions):

The total reserves above were included in the consolidated
    balance sheet as follows (in millions):

The reserves are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to
    be claimed on the related sales. These estimates take into
    consideration our historical experience, current contractual
    requirements and statutory requirements, specific known market
    events and trends and forecasted customer buying patterns. If
    actual future results vary, we may need to adjust these
    estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the period
    of the adjustment.

Product revenue reserves are categorized as follows: discounts,
    contractual adjustments, and returns.

Discounts  

Discount reserves include trade term discounts, wholesaler
    incentives and, in 2006, patient assistance.

F-15

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Trade term discounts and wholesaler incentive reserves primarily
    relate to estimated obligations for credits to be granted to
    wholesalers for remitting payment on their purchases within
    established incentive periods and credits to be granted to
    wholesalers for compliance with various contractually-defined
    inventory management practices, respectively. We determine these
    reserves based on our experience, including the timing of
    customer payments.

In 2006, patient assistance reserves were established to cover
    no-charge product that we distribute to qualifying patients
    under our indigent program, Patient Access. The program is
    administered through one of our distribution partners, who ship
    product for qualifying patients from their own inventory that
    was purchased from us. In 2006, the distributor received a
    credit at the end of each period for product that was
    administered during the period. A reserve was established
    through a reduction of product revenues for sales made to the
    distributor which we estimated may be used to administer our
    patient assistance program. We determined this reserve based on
    our experience with the activity under the program. Effective
    January 1, 2007, gross revenue and the related reserves are
    not recorded on product shipped under this program.

Contractual
    Adjustments  

Contractual adjustment reserves relate to Medicaid, VA and
    managed care rebates and other applicable allowances.

Medicaid rebates reserves relate to our estimated obligations to
    states under established reimbursement arrangements. Rebate
    accruals are recorded in the same period the related revenue is
    recognized resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the
    establishment of a liability. Rebate amounts are generally
    determined at the time of claim by the state, and we generally
    make cash payments for such amounts within a few weeks of
    receiving billings from the state.

VA rebates or chargeback reserves represent our estimated
    obligations resulting from contractual commitments to sell
    products to qualified healthcare providers at prices lower than
    the list prices we charge the wholesalers which provide those
    products. The wholesaler charges us for the difference between
    what the wholesaler pays for the products and the ultimate
    selling price to the qualified healthcare providers. Rebate
    accruals are established in the same period as the related
    revenue is recognized resulting in a reduction in product
    revenue. Chargeback amounts are generally determined at the time
    of resale to the qualified healthcare provider, and we generally
    issue credits for such amounts within a few weeks of receiving
    notification from the wholesaler.

Managed care rebates reserves represent our estimated
    obligations to third parties, primarily pharmacy benefit
    managers. Rebate accruals are recorded in the same period the
    related revenue is recognized resulting in a reduction to
    product revenue and the establishment of a liability which is
    included in other accrued liabilities. These rebates result from
    performance-based offers that are primarily based on attaining
    contractually specified sales volumes and growth. The
    calculation of the accrual for these rebates is based on an
    estimate of the customer s buying patterns and the
    resulting applicable contractual rebate rate(s) to be earned
    over a contractual period.

Returns  

Allowances for product returns are established for returns made
    by wholesalers and patients. In accordance with contractual
    terms, wholesalers are permitted to return product for reasons
    such as damaged or expired product. We also accept returns from
    our patients for various reasons.

Reserves for product returns are recorded in the period the
    related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to
    product revenue. The majority of wholesaler returns are due to
    product expiration. Expired product return reserves are
    estimated through a comparison of historical return data to
    their related sales on a production lot basis. Historical rates
    of return are determined for each product and are adjusted for
    known or expected changes in the marketplace specific to each
    product. As noted above, in 2007, pursuant to the change in the
    way we administered our patient assistance program, revenue is
    no longer recorded under this program. The patient return
    program is administered by the same distribution partner as the
    patient assistance program. As noted above, in

F-16

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

2006, revenue related to product sold to this distribution
    partner that was used to satisfy patient returns was fully
    reserved.

During the second quarter of 2006, we recorded an increase in
    our allowance for expired products of $12.3 million to
    correct for prior period errors. This increase in the allowance
    was recorded through an out of period reduction in net product
    revenue of $6.9 million and an increase in goodwill of
    $5.4 million. We identified and quantified the errors
    through an analysis of the historical rate for returns based on
    volumes of returns and the amount of credit granted to the
    returning distributors in past periods. At the time of the
    Merger with Biogen, Inc. in 2003, Biogen, Inc. had understated
    its allowance for expired product by an estimated
    $5.4 million due to an incorrect methodology applied in
    calculating its reserve balance. Had we identified this error at
    the time of the Merger, the recorded goodwill would have been
    approximately $5.4 million higher than has been previously
    reflected. Biogen, Inc. s methodology was in error because
    it did not utilize known information in determining critical
    assumptions used in the basis of calculation. Our application of
    this incorrect methodology in the post-Merger period resulted in
    understating this reserve by an additional $6.9 million. In
    all cases, the correctly calculated rate of return is less than
    one percent of related gross product revenues. We have
    determined that the out of period correction of this error in
    2006 is not material to our reported results. Additionally, we
    have determined that the error at the merger date is not
    material to any prior period balance sheet amounts and the error
    in the post-merger period is not material to any prior period
    reported results.

Other  

Bad debt reserves are based on our estimated uncollectible
    accounts receivable. Given our historical experiences with bad
    debts, combined with our credit management policies and
    practices, we do not presently maintain significant bad debt
    reserves.

We have various contracts with distributors that provide for
    discounts and rebates. These discounts and rebates are
    classified as a reduction of revenue. We also maintain select
    customer service contracts with distributors and other customers
    in the distribution channel. We have established the fair value
    of these services and classified these customer service
    contracts as sales and marketing expense. If we had concluded
    that sufficient evidence of the fair value did not exist for
    these services, we would have been required to classify these
    costs as a reduction of revenue.

Concentration
    of Credit Risks   

Our primary exposure to credit risk derives from our cash, cash
    equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable
    balances.

Until required for use in the business, we invest our cash
    reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial
    paper, corporate notes, foreign and U.S. government
    instruments, asset backed securities and other marketable debt
    instruments. We mitigate credit risk in our cash reserves by
    maintaining a well diversified portfolio by limiting the amount
    of investment exposure as to institution, maturity and
    investment type.

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables, which
    are typically unsecured, are generally limited due to the wide
    variety of customers and markets using our products, as well as
    their dispersion across many different geographic areas. One
    customer accounted for approximately 11% of consolidated
    receivables at December 31, 2008.

Revenues
    from Unconsolidated Joint Business   

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist of our share
    of the pretax co-promotion profits generated from our
    co-promotion arrangement with Genentech, Inc., or Genentech,
    reimbursement from Genentech of our RITUXAN-related sales force
    and development expenses and royalties from Genentech for sales
    of RITUXAN

F-17

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

outside the U.S. by F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., or
    Roche, Zenyaku Kogyo Co. Ltd., or Zenyaku and Chugai
    Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, or Chugai, an affiliate of Roche. Under
    the co-promotion arrangement, all U.S. sales of RITUXAN and
    associated costs and expenses are recognized by Genentech and we
    record our share of the pretax co-promotion profits as defined
    in our amended and restated collaboration agreement with
    Genentech. Pretax co-promotion profits under the co-promotion
    arrangement are derived by taking U.S. net sales of RITUXAN
    to third-party customers less cost of sales, third-party royalty
    expenses, distribution, selling and marketing expenses and joint
    development expenses incurred by Genentech and us. We record
    royalty revenue on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. on a
    cash basis.

Royalty
    Revenues   

We receive royalty revenues under license agreements with a
    number of third parties that sell products based on technology
    we have developed or to which we have rights. The license
    agreements provide for the payment of royalties to us based on
    sales of the licensed product. We record these revenues based on
    estimates of the sales that occurred during the relevant period.
    The relevant period estimates of sales are based on interim data
    provided by licensees and analysis of historical royalties we
    have been paid (adjusted for any changes in facts and
    circumstances, as appropriate). We maintain regular
    communication with our licensees in order to gauge the
    reasonableness of our estimates. Differences between actual
    royalty revenues and estimated royalty revenues are reconciled
    and adjusted for in the period in which they become known,
    typically the following quarter. Historically, adjustments have
    not been material based on actual amounts paid by licensees.
    There are no future performance obligations on our part under
    these license agreements. To the extent we do not have
    sufficient ability to accurately estimate revenue, we record it
    on a cash basis.

Research
    and Development Expenses   

Research and development expenses consist of upfront fees and
    milestones paid to collaborators and expenses incurred in
    performing research and development activities including
    salaries and benefits, facilities expenses, overhead expenses,
    clinical trial and related clinical manufacturing expenses,
    contract services and other outside expenses. Research and
    development expenses are expensed as incurred. Payments we make
    for research and development services prior to the services
    being rendered are recorded as prepaid assets on our balance
    sheet and are expensed as the services are provided. We have
    entered into certain research agreements in which we share
    expenses with our collaborator. We have entered into other
    collaborations where we are reimbursed for work performed on
    behalf of our collaborative partners. We record the expenses for
    such work as research and development expenses. If the
    arrangement is a cost-sharing arrangement and there is a period
    during which we receive payments from the collaborator, we
    record payments by the collaborator for their share of the
    development effort as a reduction of research and development
    expense. If the arrangement is a reimbursement of research and
    development expenses, we record the reimbursement as corporate
    partner revenue.

FIN 46(R)   

Under FIN 46(R) ,  we consolidate variable interest
    entities for which we are the primary beneficiary. For such
    consolidated entities in which we own less than a 100% interest,
    we record minority interest in our statement of income for the
    current results allocable to the outside equity interests.
    FIN 46(R) impacts the way we account for certain
    collaborations and future events may result in our consolidation
    of companies or related entities with which we have a
    collaborative arrangement. The consolidation of variable
    interest entities may have a material effect on our financial
    condition
     and/or 
    results of operation in future periods.

F-18

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Acquired
    In-Process Research and Development   

IPR D represents the fair value assigned to research and
    development projects that we acquire that have not been
    completed at the date of acquisition and which have no future
    alternative use. Accordingly, the fair value of such projects is
    recorded as in process research and development expense as of
    the acquisition date.

The value assigned to acquired IPR D is determined by
    estimating the costs to develop the acquired technology into
    commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash
    flows from the projects, and discounting the net cash flows to
    present value. The revenue and costs projections used to value
    IPR D were, as applicable, reduced based on the probability
    of developing a new drug. Additionally, the projections
    considered the relevant market sizes and growth factors,
    expected trends in technology, and the nature and expected
    timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors.
    The resulting net cash flows from such projects are based on
    management s estimates of cost of sales, operating
    expenses, and income taxes from such projects. The rates
    utilized to discount the net cash flows to their present value
    were commensurate with the stage of development of the projects
    and uncertainties in the economic estimates used in the
    projections described above.

If these projects are not successfully developed, the sales and
    profitability of the company may be adversely affected in future
    periods. Additionally, the value of other acquired intangible
    assets may become impaired. We believe that the foregoing
    assumptions used in the IPR D analysis were reasonable at
    the time of the respective acquisition. No assurance can be
    given, however, that the underlying assumptions used to estimate
    expected project sales, development costs or profitability, or
    the events associated with such projects, will transpire as
    estimated.

Earnings
    per Share   

We calculate earnings per share in accordance with Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,  Earnings per
    Share , or SFAS 128, and
     EITF 03-06, 
     Participating Securities and the Two  
    Class Method Under SFAS 128,  or
     EITF 03-06. 
    SFAS 128 and
     EITF 03-06 
    together require the presentation of  basic  earnings
    per share and  diluted  earnings per share.

Basic earnings per share is computed using the two-class method.
    Under the two-class method, undistributed net income is
    allocated to common stock and participating securities based on
    their respective rights to share in dividends. We have
    determined that our preferred shares meet the definition of
    participating securities, and have allocated a portion of net
    income to our preferred shares on a pro rata basis. Net income
    allocated to preferred shares is excluded from the calculation
    of basic earnings per share. For basic earnings per share, net
    income available to holders of common stock is divided by the
    weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding.
    For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, net
    income is adjusted for the after-tax amount of interest
    associated with convertible debt and net income allocable to
    preferred shares, and the denominator includes both the weighted
    average number of shares of common stock outstanding and
    potential dilutive shares of common stock from stock options,
    unvested restricted stock awards, restricted stock units and
    other convertible securities, to the extent they are dilutive.

Accounting
    for Share-based Compensation   

Our share-based compensation programs consist of share-based
    awards granted to employees including stock options, restricted
    stock, performance and time-vested restricted stock units, as
    well as our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP and are
    accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payments , or
    SFAS 123(R). Under this methodology, the estimated fair
    value of awards is charged against income over the requisite
    service period, which is generally the vesting period. Where
    awards are made with non-substantive vesting periods (for
    instance, where a portion of the award vests upon retirement
    eligibility), we estimate and recognize expense based on the
    period from the grant date to the date on which the employee is
    retirement eligible. For our ESPP, we apply a graded vesting
    approach because the ESPP provides for multiple purchase periods
    and is, in substance, a series of linked awards.

F-19

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The fair value of the stock option grants is based on estimates
    as of the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation
    model. The fair value of all time vested restricted units and
    restricted stock is based on the market value of our stock on
    the date of grant. Compensation expense for restricted stock and
    restricted stock units, including the effect of forfeitures, is
    recognized over the applicable service period. The fair value of
    performance based stock units is based on the market price of
    our stock on the date of grant and assumes that the performance
    criteria will be met and the target payout level will be
    achieved. Compensation cost is adjusted for subsequent changes
    in the outcome of performance-related conditions until the
    vesting dates. For certain performance based stock units, we
    apply a graded vesting approach and the fair value is based on
    the market price on the date of the vesting.

Assets
    Held for Sale   

We consider certain real property and certain other
    miscellaneous assets as held for sale when they meet the
    criteria set out in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
    Long-Lived Assets , or SFAS 144.

As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were no assets held
    for sale on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

2.    

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

Syntonix
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   

In January 2007, we acquired 100% of the stock of Syntonix
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Syntonix, a privately held
    biopharmaceutical company based in Waltham, Massachusetts.
    Syntonix focuses on discovering and developing long-acting
    therapeutic products to improve treatment regimens for chronic
    diseases, and is engaged in multiple pre-clinical programs in
    hemophilia. The purchase price was $44.4 million, including
    transaction costs, and could increase to as much as
    $124.4 million if certain development milestones with
    respect to Syntonix s lead product, long acting recombinant
    Factor IX, a proprietary long-acting factor IX product for the
    treatment of hemophilia B, are achieved. The purpose of the
    acquisition was to enhance our pipeline and to expand into
    additional specialized markets.

The acquisition was funded from our existing cash on hand and
    was accounted for as an asset acquisition as Syntonix is a
    development-stage company. As a result of the acquisition we
    obtained the rights to the in-process technology of the
    Fc-fusion technology platform. Syntonix has two programs in
    development using the Fc-fusion platform, long acting
    recombinant Factor IX and long acting recombinant Factor VIII.
    Syntonix s lead product, long acting recombinant Factor IX,
    is a proprietary long-acting factor IX product for the treatment
    of hemophilia B. Syntonix filed an investigational new drug
    application with the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for
    long acting recombinant Factor IX in 2007. Long acting
    recombinant Factor VIII is a product for the treatment of
    hemophilia A and is approximately two years from filing of the
    investigational new drug application with the FDA.

The results of operations of Syntonix are included in our
    consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition.
    We have completed our purchase price allocation for the
    acquisition as set out below (in millions):

F-20

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The purchase price included $2.0 million in loan
    forgiveness and $0.7 million in transaction fees. In
    addition, $0.3 million of severance charges were accrued as
    a result of the acquisition.

The amount allocated to IPR D relates to the development of
    long acting recombinant Factor IX and long acting recombinant
    Factor VIII, which are in a development stage. Since the
    acquisition in January 2007, we have spent approximately
    $26.1 million and $5.5 million in research and
    development costs related to long acting recombinant Factor IX
    and long acting recombinant Factor VIII, respectively. We expect
    to incur an additional $29.7 million to complete long
    acting recombinant Factor IX and an additional
    $30.3 million to complete long acting recombinant Factor
    VIII. The estimated revenues from long acting recombinant Factor
    IX and long acting recombinant Factor VIII are expected to be
    recognized beginning in 2012 and 2013, respectively. A discount
    rate of 13% was used to value these projects, which we believe
    to be commensurate with the stage of development and the
    uncertainties in the economic estimates described above. At the
    date of acquisition, these compounds had not reached
    technological feasibility and had no alternative future use.
    Accordingly, $18.4 million in IPR D was expensed upon
    acquisition.

Upon acquisition, we recognized a deferred tax asset of
    $27.8 million. The deferred tax asset included
    approximately $12.8 million of net operating loss and
    research credit carryovers that will be utilized prior to
    applicable expiration dates, as well as approximately
    $15.3 million of other deferred tax assets primarily
    related to
     start-up  and
    research expenditures that have been capitalized for tax
    purposes and are being amortized over the next several years.

Future contingent consideration payments, if any, will be
    recorded as IPR D. The total revenue, operating income
    (loss) and net income (loss) pro forma impacts of the
    acquisition for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
    were not material.

Fumedica
    Agreements   

In December 2006, we entered into an agreement with Fumedica.
    Fumedica is a privately held pharmaceutical company based in
    Germany and Switzerland that maintains distribution rights to
    FUMADERM and to whom we were contingently obligated to make
    royalty payments with respect to a successful launch of BG-12
    for psoriasis in Germany. Fumedica had the rights to distribute
    FUMADERM in Germany through April 2009. Under the terms of the
    agreement, we have obtained all distribution and marketing
    rights to FUMADERM effective May 2007. No royalty payments were
    due under the agreement and under the terms of the transition
    agreement, we will not be required to make any royalty payments
    to Fumedica if BG-12 is successfully launched for psoriasis in
    Germany.

The fair value of the acquired FUMADERM distribution rights was
    approximately $11.1 million. This amount has been
    capitalized and included in intangible assets and will be
    amortized over approximately two years beginning in May 2007,
    based on the remaining term of the distribution agreement. The
    fair value of terminating the pre-existing agreement was
    approximately $28.1 million. This amount has been expensed
    as it relates to a product that has not reached technological
    feasibility. In addition, in connection with this transaction,
    we committed to total payments of 61.4 million Swiss Francs
    or approximately $50.5 million, which will be paid to
    Fumedica in varying amounts from June 2008 through June 2018.
    Through December 31, 2008, 12 million Swiss Francs or
    approximately $11.8 million have been paid and as of
    December 31, 2008 the present value of the remaining
    obligation is $38.6 million

The present value of the payments due under the agreements will
    be accreted to future value at an interest rate of 5.75%, our
    incremental borrowing rate at the time of the acquisition.

Fumapharm   

In June 2006, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the stock
    of Fumapharm, a privately held pharmaceutical company based in
    Switzerland that develops therapeutics derived from fumaric acid
    esters. As part of the acquisition, we acquired FUMADERM, a
    commercial product available in Germany for the treatment of
    psoriasis, and BG-12, a clinical-stage compound being studied
    for the treatment of MS and psoriasis that was being jointly

F-21

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

developed by Fumapharm and us. The purpose of this acquisition
    was to support our goal of developing innovative therapeutic
    options for people living with MS.

As part of the acquisition, we agreed to pay
    $220.0 million, of which $218.0 million was paid at
    closing and $2.0 million was paid in 2008 as partial
    coverage for any losses incurred as a result of any breach of
    representations and warranties. We agreed to additional payments
    of $15.0 million upon achievement of certain regulatory
    approvals, and additional payments in the event that annual and
    cumulative sales targets, as defined, are achieved.

The acquisition was funded from our existing cash on hand and
    has been accounted for as a business combination. Assets and
    liabilities assumed have been recorded at their fair values as
    of the date of acquisition. The results of operations for
    Fumapharm are included from the date of acquisition. Our
    purchase price allocation for the acquisition is set forth below
    (in millions):

The purchase price allocation was completed during the fourth
    quarter of 2006.

The amount allocated to IPR D projects relates to the
    development of BG-12. BG-12 has received positive results from a
    Phase 2 study of its efficacy and safety for patients with
    relapsing-remitting MS and, subsequent to the acquisition, we
    initiated Phase 3 clinical trials. Since the acquisition in June
    of 2006, we have incurred $129.3 million in research and
    development costs. We expect to incur approximately an
    additional $169.0 million to complete the development of
    BG-12. The estimated revenues from BG-12 are expected to be
    recognized beginning in 2012. A discount rate of 12% was used to
    value the project, which we believe to be commensurate with the
    stage of development and the uncertainties in the economic
    estimates described above. At the date of acquisition, the
    development of BG-12 had not yet reached technological
    feasibility, and the research and development in progress had no
    alternative future use. Accordingly, $207.4 million in
    IPR D was expensed in 2006.

The fair value of intangible assets was based on valuations
    using an income approach, with estimates and assumptions
    determined by management. The core technology asset represents a
    combination of Fumapharm s processes and procedures related
    to the design and development of its application products. The
    developed technology relates to processes and procedures related
    to products that have reached technological feasibility. Core
    technology is being amortized over approximately 12 years
    and the developed technology over approximately 3 years.
    The excess of purchase price over tangible assets, identifiable
    intangible assets and assumed liabilities represents goodwill.
    None of the goodwill or intangible assets acquired is deductible
    for income tax purposes. As a result, we recorded a deferred tax
    liability of $2.8 million, based on the tax effect of the
    amount of the acquired intangible assets other than goodwill
    with no tax basis.

F-22

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In addition to the assets acquired, a gain of $34.2 million
    was recognized coincident with the acquisition of Fumapharm in
    accordance with
     EITF 04-1, 
     Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between the Parties
    to a Business Combination.  The gain related to the
    settlement of a preexisting license agreement between Fumapharm
    and us. The license agreement in question had been entered into
    in October 2003 and required us to make payments to Fumapharm of
    certain royalty amounts. The market rate for such payments was
    determined to have increased due, principally, to the increased
    technical feasibility of BG-12. The gain primarily relates to
    the difference between i) the royalty rates at the
    time the agreement was entered into as compared to ii) the
    expected higher royalty rates that would result at the time the
    agreement was effectively settled by virtue of our acquisition
    of Fumapharm.

Future contingent consideration payments, if any, will be
    accounted for as increases to goodwill. The total revenue,
    operating income (loss) and net income (loss) impacts of the
    acquisition for the year ended December 31, 2006 was not
    material.

Conforma   

In May 2006, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the stock
    of Conforma, a privately-held development stage
    biopharmaceutical company based in California that focused on
    the design and development of drugs for the treatment of cancer.
    The goal of this acquisition was to enable us to broaden our
    therapeutic opportunities in the field of oncology.

We acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of the
    capital stock of Conforma for $150.0 million, paid at
    closing. Of this amount, $15.0 million has been escrowed by
    the sellers pending satisfaction of customary representations
    and warranties made by Conforma. In 2008, we recorded an
    IPR D charge of $25.0 million related to an HSP90
    related milestone payment made to the former shareholders of
    Conforma. Up to an additional $75.0 million could be
    payable to the sellers upon the achievement of certain future
    development milestones. Additionally, $0.5 million in
    transaction costs were incurred and loans of approximately
    $2.3 million were made to certain non-officer employees of
    Conforma, which are included in other assets in the accompanying
    consolidated balance sheet. Such loans are fully collateralized
    and were made for the purpose of assisting the employees in
    meeting their tax liabilities.

The acquisition was funded from our existing cash on hand and
    was accounted for as an asset acquisition as Conforma is a
    development-stage company. As a result of the acquisition, we
    obtained the rights to two compounds in Phase 1 clinical trials:
    CNF1010, a proprietary form of the geldanamycin derivative
     17-AAG;  and
    CNF2024, or HSP90, a totally synthetic, orally bioavailable heat
    shock protein 90 inhibitor.

The results of operations of Conforma are included in our
    results from the date of acquisition. Our completed purchase
    price allocation for the acquisition is set forth below (in
    millions):

The amount allocated to IPR D relates to the development of
    HSP90, which is in Phase 1 clinical trials. Since the
    acquisition in June of 2006, we have incurred $36.3 million
    in research and development costs. We expect to incur
    approximately an additional $242 million to complete the
    development of HSP90. The estimated revenues from HSP90, if any,
    are expected to be recognized beginning in 2013. A discount rate
    of 12% was used to value the project, which we believe to be
    commensurate with the stage of development and the uncertainties
    in the economic

F-23

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

estimates described above. At the date of acquisition, this
    compound had not reached technological feasibility and had no
    alternative future use. Accordingly, $123.1 million in
    IPR D was expensed in 2006.

Upon acquisition, we recognized a deferred tax asset of
    $24.0 million relating to US federal and state net
    operating losses and tax credit carryforwards that we acquired
    from Conforma. The amount allocated to deferred tax assets does
    not include certain tax attributes, such as net operating losses
    and research credits, that may not be realized because they are
    subject to annual limitations under the Internal Revenue Code
    due to a cumulative ownership change of more than 50% which
    occurred in connection with our acquisition of Conforma.

Future contingent consideration payments, if any, will be
    recorded as IPR D. The total revenue, operating income
    (loss) and net income (loss) impacts of the acquisition for the
    year ended December 31, 2006 was not material.

ZEVALIN   

In December 2007, we sold the U.S. marketing, sales, and
    manufacturing and development rights of
    ZEVALIN   

    to Cell Therapeutics, Inc., or CTI, for an upfront purchase
    price of $10.0 million. In December 2008, we received
    an additional $2.2 million milestone payment pursuant to an
    amendment to the agreement. We may receive up to an additional
    $20.0 million in milestone payments. In addition, we will
    receive royalty payments on future sales of ZEVALIN. As part of
    the overall agreement, we entered into a supply agreement with
    CTI to sell ZEVALIN product through 2014. Our sales of ZEVALIN
    to Bayer Schering Pharma AG, or Schering AG, for distribution in
    the EU will be recognized as product revenue and our supply of
    ZEVALIN to CTI will be recognized as corporate partner revenue.
    We will continue to receive royalty revenues from Schering AG on
    their sales of ZEVALIN in the EU. The $10.0 million upfront
    and $2.2 million milestone payment are being recognized in
    our results of operations over the term of the supply agreement.

3.    

Fair
    Value Measurements  

The following tables present information about our assets and
    liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis
    as of December 31, 2008, and indicates the fair value
    hierarchy of the valuation techniques we utilized to determine
    such fair value. In general, fair values determined by
    Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active
    markets for identical assets or liabilities. Fair values
    determined by Level 2 inputs utilize data points that are
    observable such as quoted prices, interest rates and yield
    curves. Fair values determined by Level 3 inputs utilize
    unobservable data points for the asset or liability.

A majority of our financial assets and liabilities have been
    classified as Level 2. These assets and liabilities have
    been initially valued at the transaction price and subsequently
    valued utilizing third party pricing services. The pricing
    services use many inputs to determine value, including
    reportable trades, benchmark yields, credit spreads,
    broker/dealer quotes, bids, offers, current spot rates, other
    industry, and economic events. We obtain an understanding of the
    models and validate the prices provided by our third party
    pricing services by obtaining market values from other pricing
    sources, and analyzing pricing data in certain instances. The
    fair values of our foreign currency forward contracts, interest
    rate swaps, debt instruments and plan assets for deferred
    compensation are based on market inputs and have been classified
    as Level 2. As of December 31, 2008 and after
    completing our

F-24

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

validation procedures, we did not adjust or override any fair
    value measurements provided by our pricing services. (in
    millions):

The fair values of our cash equivalents, marketable debt
    securities, derivative instruments and plan assets for deferred
    compensation are determined through market and observable
    sources. Our strategic investments are investments in publicly
    traded equity securities where fair value is readily
    determinable.

The following table is a roll forward of the fair value of our
    venture capital investments, where fair value is determined by
    Level 3 inputs (in millions):

Our venture capital investments, which represent approximately
    0.3% of the total assets at December 31, 2008, are the only
    assets where we used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair
    value. The underlying assets in these funds are initially
    measured at transaction prices and subsequently valued using the
    pricing of recent financing
     and/or  by
    reviewing the underlying economic fundamentals and liquidation
    value of the companies. Gains and losses (realized and
    unrealized) included in earnings for the period are reported in
    other income (expense), net.

The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance
    sheets for cash, accounts receivable, due from unconsolidated
    joint business, other current assets, accounts payable and
    accrued expenses and other approximate fair value due to their
    short-term maturities.

At December 31, 2008, the fair values of our debt
    instruments were as follows (in millions):

F-25

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The fair values of our credit line from Dompe and our note
    payable to Fumedica were estimated using market observable
    inputs. The fair value of our Senior Notes was determined
    through market, observable and corroborated sources. Within the
    hierarchy of fair value measurements, these are Level 2
    fair values.

4.    

Financial
    Instruments  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to
    concentrations of credit risk are accounts receivable and
    marketable securities. Wholesale distributors and large
    pharmaceutical companies account for the majority of our
    accounts receivable and collateral is generally not required
    from these customers. To mitigate credit risk, we monitor the
    financial performance and credit worthiness of our customers. We
    also maintain a well diversified portfolio of marketable
    securities that limits our credit exposure through concentration
    limits set within our investment policy.

Marketable
    Securities, including Strategic Investments   

The following is a summary of marketable securities and
    investments (in millions):

F-26

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In the table above, at December 31, 2008,
    U.S. Government securities includes $139.1 million of
    FDIC guaranteed senior notes issued by financial institutions
    under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). Certain
    commercial paper and short-term debt securities with original
    maturities of less than 90 days are included in cash and
    cash equivalents on the accompanying balance sheet and are not
    included in the table above. The commercial paper, including
    accrued interest, has a fair and carrying value of
    $42.7 million and $368.2 million and short-term debt
    securities has a fair and carrying value of $458.2 million
    and $195.1 million at December 31, 2008 and
    December 31, 2007, respectively.

The tables above include our loaned securities. In the years
    ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recognized
    $41.7 million and $7.5 million, respectively, in
    charges for the impairment of available-for-sale securities
    primarily related to mortgage and asset backed securities that
    were determined to be other-than-temporary following a decline
    in value primarily related to adverse market conditions,
    including less active trading markets, and a change in our
    investment strategy regarding these assets which no longer
    provided us with the ability and intent to hold the securities
    to maturity or until we recovered the cost of our investment. No
    such charges were recognized in 2006.

Unrealized losses relate to various debt securities, including
    U.S. Government issues, corporate bonds and asset-backed
    securities. The unrealized losses on these securities were
    primarily caused by a rise in interest rates
     and/or  an
    increase in credit spreads subsequent to purchase. We believe
    that these unrealized losses are temporary, and we have the
    intent and ability to hold these securities to recovery, which
    may be at maturity.

The proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities,
    excluding strategic investments, which were primarily
    reinvested, and resulting realized gains and losses were as
    follows (in millions):

F-27

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The estimated fair value and amortized cost of securities,
    excluding strategic investments, available-for-sale by
    contractual maturity are as follows (in millions):

Mortgage and other asset backed securities totaled
    $306.8 million and include $66.5 million of non-agency
    mortgage backed securities at December 31, 2008. The
    average maturity of our marketable securities at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 was 13 months and
    15 months, respectively.

Strategic
    Investments   

In 2007, we sold our share in one strategic investment for
    $99.5 million, which resulted in a $17.2 million gain.
    In 2008 and 2006, we did not sell any portion of strategic
    investments. Strategic investments are included in investments
    and other assets on the accompanying balance sheet.

In 2008, 2007, and 2006, we recognized $8.6 million,
    $16.0 million, and $30.5 million in charges,
    respectively, for the impairment of publicly-held strategic
    investments for declines in value that were determined to be
    other-than-temporary.

We hold other investments in equity securities of certain
    privately held biotechnology companies or biotechnology oriented
    venture capital funds. The cost basis of these securities at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 is $64.7 million and
    $52.9 million, respectively. These securities are included
    in investments and other assets on the accompanying consolidated
    balance sheet.

In 2008, 2007, and 2006, we recorded $2.3 million,
    $2.4 million, and $3.9 million, respectively, in
    charges for the impairment for certain investments in privately
    held companies or funds that were determined to be other than
    temporary.

Forward
    Contracts and Interest Rate Swaps   

We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge specific
    forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies. All
    foreign currency forward contracts in effect at
    December 31, 2008 had durations of 1 to 12 months.
    These contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges and
    accordingly, to the extent effective, any unrealized gains or
    losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are reported
    in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Realized gains
    and losses for the effective portion are recognized with the
    completion of the underlying hedge transaction. To the extent
    ineffective, hedge transaction gains and losses are reported in
    other income (expense).

The notional settlement amount of the foreign currency forward
    contracts outstanding at December 31, 2008 was
    approximately $523.5 million. The fair value of these
    contracts was a net unrealized loss of $44.1 million  and
    was included in accumulated other comprehensive income within
    the shareholder s equity at December 31, 2008. We
    consider the impact of our and our counterparties  credit
    risk on the fair value of the contracts as well as the ability
    of each party to execute its obligations under the contract. As
    of December 31, 2008, credit risk did not materially change
    the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts. The
    notional settlement amount of the foreign currency forward
    contracts outstanding at December 31, 2007 was
    approximately $409.2 million. The fair value of these
    contracts was a loss of $6.4 million and was included in
    other current liabilities at December 31, 2007.

F-28

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

For our foreign currency forward contracts in 2008, there was
    $0.2 million recognized in earnings as a loss due to hedge
    ineffectiveness. We recognized an $8.5 million negative
    impact on product revenue for the settlement of certain
    effective cash flow hedge instruments in 2008. These settlements
    were recorded in the same period as the related forecasted
    transactions affecting earnings.

For our foreign currency forward contracts in 2007, there was
    $2.6 million recognized in earnings as a loss due to hedge
    ineffectiveness. We recognized $13.1 million of losses in
    product revenue for the settlement of certain effective cash
    flow hedge instruments in 2007. These settlements were recorded
    in the same period as the related forecasted transactions
    affecting earnings.

In 2006, there was $0.6 million recognized in earnings as a
    loss due to hedge ineffectiveness and $0.9 million
    recognized in earnings as a loss as a result of the
    discontinuance of cash flow hedge accounting because it was no
    longer probable that the hedge forecasted transaction would
    occur. We recognized $11.2 million of losses in product
    revenue for the settlement of certain effective cash flow hedge
    instruments through December 31, 2006. These settlements
    were recorded in the same period as the related forecasted
    transactions affecting earnings.

As described in Note 8, Indebtedness, we entered into
    interest rate swaps during 2008 for an aggregate notional amount
    of $550.0 million, which were due to expire in March 2018.
    These interest rate swaps had been designated as fair value
    hedges and were being used to manage our exposure to changes in
    interest rates. The interest rate swaps had the effect of
    changing our fixed interest rate to variable interest rate on
    $550.0 million of our Senior Notes balance outstanding.
    During 2008, we recognized a net loss of $8.9 million in
    earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. In December 2008, the
    interest rate swaps were settled. Under the settlement we
    received $53.9 million. The proceeds from this settlement
    upon termination are included within the operating section of
    the statement of cash flows. Upon termination of the swaps, the
    carrying amount of the 6.875% Senior Notes due in 2018
    increased $62.8 million as it was accounted for as a fair
    value hedge. This will be recognized as a reduction of interest
    expense and amortized using the effective interest rate method
    over the remaining life of the Senior Notes.

F-29

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

5.    

Earnings
    per Share  

Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows
    (in millions):

The following amounts were not included in the calculation of
    net income per share because their effects were anti-dilutive
    (in millions):

As a result of the tender offer described in Note 21,
    Tender Offer, earnings per share for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 reflects on a weighted average basis the
    repurchase of 56,424,155 shares as of June 27, 2007,

F-30

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

the date the obligation was incurred, in accordance with FASB
    Statement No. 150,  Accounting for Certain Financial
    Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and
    Equity , or SFAS 150.

6.    

Share-based
    Payments  

Share-based
    compensation expense   

In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded
    share-based compensation expense of $146.2 million, and
    $123.1 million, respectively, associated with
    SFAS 123(R). In the year ended December 31, 2006, we
    recorded share-based compensation expense of $126.8 million
    associated with SFAS 123(R), which is net of a cumulative
    effect pre-tax adjustment of $5.6 million, or
    $3.8 million after-tax. The cumulative effect results from
    the application of an estimated forfeiture rate for current and
    prior period unvested restricted stock awards.

For 2008, 2007, and 2006, share based compensation expense
    reduced our results of operations as follows (in millions except
    for earnings per share):

Share-based compensation expense and cost for 2008, 2007, and
    2006 is as follows (in millions):

For 2008, 2007, and 2006, we capitalized total costs of
    $7.5 million, $4.7 million, and $3.3 million,
    respectively, associated with share-based compensation costs to
    inventory and fixed assets.

F-31

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In accordance with SFAS 123(R), windfall tax benefits from
    vesting of stock awards, exercises of stock options and ESPP
    participation of $28.0 million, $69.7 million, and
    $31.7 million were recorded as cash inflows from financing
    activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows for 2008,
    2007, and 2006, respectively. This amount has been calculated in
    accordance with the alternative transition method described in
    FSP FAS 123(R)   3, which we adopted effective
    the fourth quarter of 2006.

The total amount of tax benefit realized during 2008, 2007, and
    2006, was $69.9 million, $103.6 million, and
    $42.8 million, respectively. Cash received from the
    exercise of stock options in 2008, 2007, and 2006 was
    approximately $158.3 million, $471.0 million, and
    $131.8 million, respectively.

At December 31, 2008, unrecognized compensation costs
    relating to unvested share-based compensation was approximately
    $200.0 million.

Share-based
    Compensation Plans   

We have three share-based compensation plans pursuant to which
    awards are currently being made: (i) the Biogen Idec Inc.
    2006 Non-Employee Directors Equity Plan, or the
    2006 Directors Plan; (ii) the Biogen Idec Inc. 2008
    Omnibus Equity Plan, or the 2008 Omnibus Plan; and
    (iii) the Biogen Idec Inc. 1995 Employee Stock Purchase
    Plan, or ESPP. We have six share-based compensation plans
    pursuant to which outstanding awards have been made, but from
    which no further awards can or will be made: (i) the Idec
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation 1993 Non-Employee Directors Stock
    Option Plan, or the 1993 Directors Plan; (ii) the Idec
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation 1988 Stock Option Plan;
    (iii) the Biogen, Inc. 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option
    Plan; (iv) the Biogen, Inc. 1987 Scientific Board Stock
    Option Plan: (v) the Biogen Idec Inc. 2003 Omnibus Equity
    Plan, or the 2003 Omnibus Plan: and (vi) the Biogen Idec
    Inc. 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan, or the 2005 Omnibus Plan. We have
    not made any awards from the 2005 Omnibus Plan since our
    stockholders approved the 2008 Omnibus Plan and do not intend to
    make any awards from the 2005 Omnibus Plan in the future.

Directors Plan:   In May 2006, our stockholders
    approved the 2006 Directors Plan for share-based awards to
    our directors. Awards granted from the 2006 Directors Plan
    may include options, shares of restricted stock, restricted
    stock units, stock appreciation rights and other awards in such
    amounts and with such terms and conditions as may be determined
    by a committee of our Board of Directors, subject to the
    provisions of the plan. We have reserved a total of
    850,000 shares of common stock for issuance under the
    2006 Directors Plan. The 2006 Directors Plan provides
    that awards other than stock options and stock appreciation
    rights will be counted against the total number of shares
    reserved under the plan in a 1.5-to-1 ratio.

Omnibus Plans:   In June 2008, our stockholders
    approved the 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan for share-based awards to
    our employees. Awards granted from the 2008 Omnibus Plan may
    include options, shares of restricted stock, restricted stock
    units, performance shares, shares of phantom stock, stock
    bonuses, stock appreciation rights and other awards in such
    amounts and with such terms and conditions as may be determined
    by a committee of our Board of Directors, subject to the
    provisions of the plan. Shares of common stock available for
    issuance under the 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan consist of
    15.0 million shares reserved for this purpose, plus shares
    of common stock that remained available for issuance under the
    2005 Omnibus Plan on the date that our stockholders approved the
    2008 Omnibus Equity Plan, plus shares that are subject to awards
    under the 2005 Omnibus Plan which remain unissued upon the
    cancellation, surrender, exchange or termination of such awards.
    The 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan provides that awards other than
    stock options and stock appreciation rights will be counted
    against the total number of shares available under the plan in a
    1.5-to-1 ratio.

Stock
    Options   

All stock option grants to employees are for a ten-year term and
    generally vest one-fourth per year over four years on the
    anniversary of the date of grant, provided the employee remains
    continuously employed with us. Stock option grants to directors
    are for ten-year terms and generally vest as follows:
    (i) grants made on the date of a

F-32

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

director s initial election to our Board of Directors vest
    one-third per year over three years on the anniversary of the
    date of grant, and (ii) grants made for service on our
    Board of Directors vest on the first anniversary of the date of
    grant, provided in each case that the director continues to
    serve on our Board of Directors through the vesting date.
    Options granted under all plans are exercisable at a price per
    share not less than the fair market value of the underlying
    common stock on the date of grant. The estimated fair value of
    options, including the effect of estimated forfeitures, is
    recognized over the options  vesting periods. The fair
    value of the stock option grants awarded in 2008, 2007, and 2006
    was estimated as of the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
    option valuation model that uses the following weighted-average
    assumptions:

Expected volatility is based upon implied volatility for our
    exchange-traded options and other factors, including historical
    volatility. After assessing all available information on either
    historical volatility, implied volatility, or both, we have
    concluded that a combination of both historical and implied
    volatility provides the best estimate of expected volatility.
    The expected term of options granted is derived using assumed
    exercise rates based on historical exercise patterns and
    represents the period of time that options granted are expected
    to be outstanding. The risk-free interest rate used is
    determined by the market yield curve based upon risk-free
    interest rates established by the Federal Reserve, or non-coupon
    bonds that have maturities equal to the expected term. The
    dividend yield of zero is based upon the fact that we have not
    historically granted cash dividends, and do not expect to issue
    dividends in the foreseeable future. Stock options granted prior
    to January 1, 2006 were valued based on the grant date fair
    value of those awards, using the Black-Scholes option pricing
    model, as previously calculated for pro-forma disclosures under
    SFAS 123. For 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recorded
    $20.1 million, $30.7 million and $43.6 million,
    respectively, of stock compensation cost related to stock
    options.

F-33

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A summary of stock option activity is presented in the following
    table (shares are in thousands):

The total intrinsic values of options exercised in 2008, 2007,
    and 2006, were $85.1 million, $226.7 million, and
    $92.5 million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic values
    of options outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007, were
    $71.4 million and $102.7 million, respectively. The
    weighted average remaining contractual terms for options
    outstanding at December 31, 2008 was 5.2 years.

Of the options outstanding, 9.2 million were exercisable at
    December 31, 2008. The exercisable options had a
    weighted-average exercise price of $53.48. The aggregate
    intrinsic value of options exercisable as of December 31,
    2008 and 2007 was $53.7 million and $78.5 million,
    respectively. The weighted average remaining contractual term
    for options exercisable at December 31, 2008 was
    4.2 years.

Time-Vested
    Restricted Stock Units   

Time-vested restricted stock units, or RSUs, awarded to
    employees generally vest no sooner than one-third per year over
    three years on the anniversary of the date of grant, or upon the
    third anniversary of the date of the grant, provided the
    employee remains continuously employed with us except as
    otherwise provided in the plan. Shares of our common stock will
    be delivered to the employee upon vesting, subject to payment of
    applicable withholding taxes. Time-vested RSUs awarded to
    directors for service on our Board of Directors vest on the
    first anniversary of the date of grant, provided in each case
    that the director continues to serve on our Board of Directors
    through the vesting date. Shares of our common stock will be
    delivered to the director upon vesting. The fair value of all
    time-vested RSUs is based on the market value of our stock on
    the date of grant. Compensation expense, including the effect of
    forfeitures, is recognized over the applicable service period.
    For 2008, 2007, and 2006, we recorded $125.6 million,
    $75.2 million, and $31.3 million, respectively, of
    stock compensation cost related to time-vested RSUs.

F-34

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A summary of time-vested RSU activity is presented in the
    following table (shares are in thousands):

The weighted average remaining contractual term for the
    time-vested RSUs was 1 year at December 31, 2008.

Performance-Based
    Restricted Stock Units   

In the first quarter of 2007, our Board of Directors awarded
    30,000 RSUs to our President, Research and Development, under
    the 2005 Omnibus Plan, subject to certain performance criteria
    and the employee s continued employment through
    December 31, 2007. In February 2008, 27,000 of these RSUs
    vested and converted into shares of our common stock based on
    the determination by our Board of Directors that approximately
    90% of these RSUs had been earned. A total of 17,227 shares
    were issued, reflecting the fact that certain shares were
    withheld for income tax purposes. Additionally, during the
    second quarter of 2007, our Board of Directors awarded 90,000
    RSUs to our President, Research and Development, under the 2005
    Omnibus Plan, subject to certain performance criteria. We apply
    graded vesting when accounting for these RSU s and the fair
    value will be based on the market price on the date of vesting.
    These RSUs will vest annually in equal increments of
    30,000 shares over three years and convert into shares of
    our common stock, subject to attainment of certain performance
    goals and the employee s continued employment through the
    three performance periods, which end December 31, 2008,
    December 31, 2009, and September 30, 2010,
    respectively.

In the first quarter of 2006, our Board of Directors awarded
    100,000 RSUs to our CEO, under the 2005 Omnibus Plan, subject to
    certain 2006 financial performance criteria. In February 2007,
    our Board of Directors determined that the performance criteria
    had been attained and that 100,000 RSUs would convert into
    shares of our common stock. A total of 58,250 shares were
    issued, reflecting the fact that certain shares were withheld
    for income tax purposes.

During the third quarter of 2005, we granted 1.2 million
    performance-based RSUs, to be settled in shares of our common
    stock, to a group of approximately 200 senior employees
    excluding our CEO. The grants were made under the 2005 Omnibus
    Plan as part of an initiative to retain certain key personnel.
    On September 14, 2006, 70% of the RSUs for all employees
    still in active employment, or 758,262 shares, vested as
    the required performance goals had been determined to have been
    achieved. A total of 510,859 shares were issued, reflecting
    the fact that certain shares were withheld for income tax
    purposes.

F-35

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

On March 14, 2007, the remaining 30% of the RSUs granted
    during the third quarter of 2005 were scheduled to vest and
    convert into shares if the performance goals were attained and
    the employee was still in active employment. On March 14,
    2007, 258,387 shares vested based on the determination by
    our Board of Directors that approximately 83% of these RSUs had
    been earned. A total of 172,054 shares were issued,
    reflecting the fact that certain shares were withheld for income
    tax purposes.

For 2008, 2007, and 2006, we recorded compensation charges of
    approximately $1.1 million, $5.0 million, and
    $33.6 million, respectively, related to performance-based
    restricted stock units. Compensation cost is adjusted quarterly
    for subsequent changes in the outcome of performance-related
    conditions until the vesting date.

A summary of performance-based RSU activity is presented in the
    following table (shares are in thousands):

The weighted average remaining contractual term for the
    performance-based RSUs was 1.8 years at December 31,
    2008.

Restricted
    Stock Awards   

In 2005, we awarded restricted common stock to our employees
    under the 2005 Omnibus Plan and the 2003 Omnibus Plan at no cost
    to the employees. The restricted stock awards, or RSAs, granted
    under the 2003 Omnibus Plan vested in full on the third
    anniversary of the date of grant for employees that remained
    continuously employed with us through the vesting dates. The
    RSAs granted under the 2005 Omnibus Plan vested at a rate of
    approximately one-third per year over three years on the
    anniversary of the date of grant for employees that remained
    continuously employed with us through the vesting dates.

For 2008 and 2007, we recorded $0.5 million and
    $11.7 million, respectively, of stock compensation cost
    related to restricted stock awards. The fair value of all
    time-vested RSAs is based on the market value of our stock on
    the date of grant. Compensation expense, including the effect of
    forfeitures, is recognized over the applicable service period.
    For 2006, we recorded $21.9 million of stock compensation
    cost related to restricted stock awards, prior to a first
    quarter pre-tax cumulative effect catch up credit of
    $5.6 million or $3.8 million after-tax, resulting from
    the application of an estimated forfeiture rate for prior period
    unvested restricted stock awards.

F-36

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A summary of restricted stock award activity is presented in the
    following table (shares are in thousands):

ESPP   

Under the terms of the ESPP, employees can elect to have up to
    ten percent of their annual compensation (subject to certain
    dollar limits) withheld to purchase shares of our common stock.
    The purchase price of the common stock is equal to 85% of the
    lower of the fair market value of the common stock on the
    enrollment or purchase date under a look-back provision. In June
    2005, our stockholders approved the amendment and restatement of
    the ESPP, including an increase in the number of shares
    available for issuance under the ESPP from 4.2 million to
    6.2 million shares. At December 31, 2008, a total of
    4.4 million shares of our common stock were available for
    issuance. During 2008, 2007, and 2006, 0.5 million,
    0.5 million, and 0.5 million shares, respectively,
    were issued under the ESPP. We utilize the Black-Scholes model
    to calculate the fair value of these discounted purchases. The
    fair value of the look-back provision plus the 15% discount
    amount is recognized as compensation expense over the purchase
    period. We apply a graded vesting approach because the plan
    provides for multiple purchase periods and is, in substance, a
    series of linked awards. In 2008, 2007, and 2006, we recorded
    stock compensation cost of approximately $6.5 million,
    $5.2 million, and $5.2 million, respectively.

Cash received under the ESPP in 2008, 2007, and 2006 was
    approximately $21.3 million, $18.2 million, and
    $15.2 million, respectively.

F-37

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

7.    

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

The accumulated balances in comprehensive income (loss) were as
    follows (in millions):

See Note 13, Employee Benefit Plans, for discussion of
    unfunded status of pension and postretirement benefit plans.

8.    

Indebtedness  

Notes payable consists of the following (in millions):

On March 4, 2008, we issued $450.0 million aggregate
    principal amount of 6.0% Senior Notes due March 1,
    2013 and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of
    6.875% Senior Notes due March 1, 2018 at 99.886% and
    99.184% of par, respectively.

In June and July 2007, in connection with the tender offer
    described in Note 21, Tender Offer, we entered into a
    $1,500.0 million term loan facility and borrowed the full
    $1,500.0 million available under this facility. In
    March 2008, we used the proceeds from the Senior Notes,
    along with cash and the proceeds from the liquidation of
    marketable securities, to repay the $1,500.0 million term
    loan facility.

In June 2007, we also entered into a five year
    $400.0 million Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility,
    which we may use for working capital and general corporate
    purposes. The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers

F-38

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Holdings Inc. has eliminated their $40.0 million
    commitment, thereby reducing the availability of the credit
    facility to $360.0 million.

The following is a summary description of our principal
    indebtedness as of December 31, 2008.

Senior
    Notes   

On March 4, 2008, we issued $450.0 million aggregate
    principal amount of 6.0% Senior Notes due March 1,
    2013 and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of
    6.875% Senior Notes due March 1, 2018 at 99.886% and
    99.184% of par, respectively. The discount will be amortized as
    additional interest expense over the period from issuance
    through maturity. These notes are senior unsecured obligations.
    Interest on the notes is payable March 1 and September 1 of each
    year. The notes may be redeemed at our option at any time at
    100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest and a
    specified make-whole amount. The notes contain a change of
    control provision that may require us to purchase the notes
    under certain circumstances. There is also an interest rate
    adjustment feature that requires us to pay interest at an
    increased interest rate on the notes if the credit rating on the
    notes declines below investment grade. Offering costs of
    approximately $8.0 million have been recorded as debt
    issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet and will be
    amortized as additional interest expense using the effective
    interest rate method over the period from issuance through
    maturity. Additionally, we entered into interest rate swaps
    where we received a fixed rate and paid a variable rate, as
    further described in Note 4, Financial Instruments that
    have been subsequently terminated. Upon termination of the
    swaps, the carrying amount of the 6.875% Senior Notes due
    in 2018 increased by $62.8 million as it was accounted for
    as a fair value hedge. This will be recognized as a reduction of
    interest expense and amortized using the effective interest rate
    method over the remaining life of the Senior Notes.

We used the proceeds of this borrowing, along with cash and the
    proceeds from the liquidation of marketable securities, to repay
    the $1,500.0 million term loan facility we had entered into
    in July 2007 in connection with the funding of our June 2007
    common stock tender offer.

Revolving
    credit facility   

In June 2007, we entered into a five-year $400.0 million
    Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility, which we may use for
    future working capital and general corporate purposes. The
    bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. has eliminated their
    $40.0 million commitment, thereby reducing the availability
    of the credit facility to $360.0 million. This credit
    facility bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis
    points. The terms of this revolving credit facility include
    various covenants, including financial covenants that require us
    to not exceed a maximum leverage ratio and under certain
    circumstances, an interest coverage ratio. As of
    December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with these
    covenants and there were no borrowings under this credit
    facility.

Biogen-Dompe   

As of December 31, 2008, Biogen-Dompe SRL, a consolidated
    joint venture, has a loan balance of 12.0 million Euros
    ($16.7 million). This balance represents a line of credit
    from us and Domp  Farmaceutici SpA of 24 million
    Euros, half of which has been eliminated as it is an
    intercompany loan for purposes of presenting our consolidated
    financial position. Borrowings are to be made equally between
    the partners, and any repayments are to be paid in a similar
    manner. The interest rate of the line of credit is at a rate of
    3 month Euro LIBOR plus 25 basis points, and was
    5.535% at December 31, 2008. The interest rate is reset
    quarterly and payable quarterly in arrears. Any borrowings on
    the line of credit are due, in full, June 1, 2009.

F-39

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Notes
    Payable to Fumedica   

As of December 31, 2008, the notes payable to Fumedica have
    a present value of 41.2 million Swiss Francs
    ($38.6 million). The notes, which were entered into in
    connection with the settlement of various agreements associated
    with Fumedica, are non-interest bearing, have been discounted
    for financial statement presentation purposes and are being
    accreted at a rate of 5.75% and are payable in series of
    payments over the period from 2008 to 2018. See Note 2,
    Acquisitions and Dispositions.

Debt
    Maturity   

As of December 31, 2008, our total debt matures as follows
    (in millions):

The fair value of the debt is disclosed in Note 3
     Fair Value Measurements .

9.    

Intangible
    Assets and Goodwill  

Intangible assets and goodwill, net of accumulated amortization,
    impairment charges and adjustments, are as follows (in millions):

Intangibles,
    other than Goodwill   

Intangibles, other than Goodwill, were unchanged at
    December 31, 2008 as compared to December 31, 2007
    exclusive of the impact of foreign exchange and expected
    amortization.

In 2007, assembled workforce increased by $0.7 million as a
    result of the acquisition of Syntonix.

In 2006, core/developed technology increased by
    $26.4 million as a result of the acquisition of Fumapharm.
    The assembled workforce intangible asset increased
    $1.4 million as a result of the acquisition of Conforma and
    we obtained $11.1 million of distribution rights in
    connection with the buy out of an agreement with Fumedica. See
    Note 2, Acquisitions and Dispositions, for further
    discussion of these transactions.

Amortization expense was $332.7 million,
    $257.5 million, and $267.0 million for 2008, 2007, and
    2006, respectively.

F-40

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Amortization on intangible assets is expected to be in the range
    of approximately $235 million to $352 million for each
    of the next five years.

Goodwill   

Goodwill was unchanged at December 31, 2008 as compared to
    December 31, 2007 exclusive of the impact of foreign
    exchange. Goodwill decreased $17.4 million in 2007 as
    compared to the balance at December 31, 2006, primarily as
    a result of certain tax adjustments. Approximately
    $9.1 million of the adjustments relate to the adoption of
    FIN 48. (See Note 15, Income Taxes, for discussion on
    income tax).

10.    

Property,
    Plant and Equipment  

Property, plant and equipment consists of the following (in
    millions):

Depreciation expense was $129.1 million,
    $122.6 million, and $108.4 million for 2008, 2007, and
    2006, respectively.

During 2008 and 2007, we capitalized to construction in progress
    approximately $23.2 million and $10.1 million,
    respectively, of interest costs primarily related to the
    development of our large-scale biologic manufacturing facility
    in Hiller d, Denmark.

At December 31, 2008, $388.4 million of the
    construction in progress balance was related to construction of
    Hiller d, Denmark. The first phase is complete and involved
    the partial construction of a bulk manufacturing component, a
    labeling and packaging component and installation of major
    equipment. The label and packaging component and lab facility
    was placed into service in the first quarter of 2007. The second
    phase of the project involves the completion of the large-scale
    manufacturing component and construction of a warehouse, and is
    expected to be ready for commercial production in 2010.

See Note 25, Facility Impairments and Loss (Gain) on
    Disposition, of details of impairment charges taken.

F-41

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

11.    

Other
    current assets  

Other current assets consist of the following (in millions):

12.    

Accrued
    expenses and other  

Accrued expenses and other consists of the following (in
    millions):

13.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

401(k)
    Employee Savings Plan   

We maintain a 401(k) Savings Plan, or 401(k) Plan, which is
    available to substantially all U.S. regular employees over
    the age of 21. Participants may make voluntary contributions. We
    make matching contributions according to the 401(k) Plan s
    matching formula. Beginning in January 2008, all past and
    current matching contributions will vest immediately.
    Previously, the matching contributions vested over four years of
    service by the employee. Participant contributions vest
    immediately. The 401(k) Plan also holds certain transition
    contributions on behalf of participants who previously
    participated in the Biogen, Inc. Retirement Plan. Employer
    contributions for 2008, 2007, and 2006 totaled
    $20.6 million, $17.8 million, and $12.0 million,
    respectively.

Deferred
    Compensation Plan   

We maintain a non-qualified deferred compensation plan, known as
    the Supplemental Savings Plan, or SSP, that allows a select
    group of U.S. management employees to defer a portion of
    their compensation. The SSP also provides certain credits to
    highly compensated U.S. employees, which are paid by the
    company. These credits are known as Restoration Match. The
    deferred compensation amounts are accrued when earned. Such
    deferred compensation is distributable in cash in accordance
    with the rules of the SSP. Deferred compensation amounts under
    such plan at December 31, 2008 and 2007, totaled
    approximately $48.5 million and $50.3 million,
    respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities in
    the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

F-42

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The SSP also holds certain transition contributions on behalf of
    participants who previously participated in the Biogen Inc.
    Retirement Plan. Beginning in 2008, the Restoration Match vests
    immediately. Previously, the Restoration Match and transition
    contributions vested over four and seven years of service,
    respectively, by the employee. Participant contributions vest
    immediately. Distributions to participants can be either in one
    lump sum payment or annual installments as elected by the
    participants.

Retiree
    Medical Plan   

In 2003, we began to provide medical plan benefits to retirees
    under the age of 65. The plan terms were modified in 2007 and,
    accordingly, we recognized no (benefit) cost and no liability
    remained at December 31, 2008. Net periodic (benefit) cost
    for 2007, 2006, was $(6.7) million, and $1.4 million,
    respectively. In 2007, we recognized a benefit, which was
    primarily related to a modification of the plan in 2007. In
    2006, the majority of the expense was related to service cost.

Pension
    Plan   

We currently maintain two retiree benefit plans: a Supplemental
    Employee Retirement Plan and a defined benefit plan for certain
    employees in Germany.

The obligations under the plans totaled $5.4 million and
    $5.0 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Net periodic pension cost for 2008, 2007, and 2006 was
    $1.1 million, $1.3 million, and $1.2 million,
    respectively. The majority of the net period pension costs
    related to service cost.

14.  Other
    Income (Expense), Net  

Total other income (expense), net, consists of the following (in
    millions):

Interest
    Income   

For 2008 compared to 2007, interest income decreased
    $31.5 million, or 30.4%, primarily due to a reduction in
    cash and cash equivalents due to the funding of our tender offer
    in July 2007, a net payment of $525.5 million for our term
    loan facility and other debt, and lower investment yields. For
    2007 compared to 2006, interest income increased
    $2.4 million, or 2.4%, primarily due to higher yields
    offset by a reduction in cash and cash equivalents due to the
    funding of our tender offer in July 2007.

F-43

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Interest
    Expense   

For 2008 compared to 2007, interest expense increased
    $11.5 million, or 28%, primarily due to an increased debt
    balance in 2008 as compared to 2007 due to the issuance of debt
    in July 2007 as well as $8.9 million due to the impact of
    hedge ineffectiveness as discussed in Note 4, Financial
    Investments. For 2007 compared to 2006, interest expense
    increased $39.6 million, primarily due to the increased
    debt levels relating to our tender offer funded in July 2007
    (see Note 21, Tender Offer). As discussed in Note 4,
    Financial Investments, in 2008 we terminated certain interest
    rate swaps. Upon termination of the swaps, the carrying amount
    of the 6.875% Senior Notes due in 2018 increased
    $62.8 million, which will be recognized as a reduction of
    interest expense and amortized using the effective interest rate
    method over the remaining life of the Senior Notes.

Impairment
    on Investments   

In 2008, the impairment on investments was due to an other than
    temporary decline in the fair value of marketable securities of
    $41.7 million related primarily to non agency mortgage and
    asset backed securities and corporate securities classified as
    available for sale as well as other than temporary declines in
    the fair values of our strategic investments of
    $18.6 million. In 2007 and 2006, the impairment of
    investments is primarily due to the other than temporary decline
    in value in our strategic investments portfolio.

Minority
    Interest   

For 2008 compared to 2007, minority interest decreased
    $65.3 million, primarily due to the recording in 2007 of
    $64.3 million in minority interest pursuant to the initial
    consolidation of Cardiokine Biopharma LLC or Cardiokine in
    August 2007 and Neurimmune in November 2007. For 2007 compared
    to 2006, minority interest increased $65.2 million, also
    primarily due to the initial consolidation of Cardiokine and
    Neurimmune in 2007. The minority interest related to Cardiokine
    and Neurimmune recorded in 2007 offset an equal charge to
    IPR D, which resulted in no net impact to our results of
    operations for these IPR D and minority interest charges.
    Excluding the impact of these consolidations, minority interest
    expense was $6.9 million, $5.9 million and
    $6.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

Gain
    on Sale of Property   

In 2007, we sold approximately 28 acres of land in
    Oceanside, California for $16.5 million. We recorded a
    pre-tax gain of approximately $7.1 million on the sale in
    other income (expense) as this land was not utilized in our
    operations.

F-44

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Income
    tax expense   

Income before income tax provision and the income tax expense
    consist of the following (in millions):

Deferred
    tax assets and liabilities   

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are as follows:

F-45

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Tax
    Rate   

A reconciliation between the U.S. federal statutory tax
    rate and our effective tax rate is as follows:

At December 31, 2008, we had net operating losses and
    general business credit carryforwards for federal income tax
    purposes of approximately $64.7 million and
    $3.2 million, respectively, which begin to expire in 2020.
    Additionally, for state income tax purposes, we had net
    operating loss carryforwards of approximately
    $197.1 million, which begin to expire in 2009. For state
    income tax purposes, we also had research and investment credit
    carryforwards of approximately $12.0 million, of which
    approximately $9.7 million begin to expire in 2009, with
    the remainder having no prescribed expiration date.

In assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets, we
    have considered whether it is more likely than not that some
    portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
    The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent
    upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods
    in which those temporary differences become deductible. In
    making this determination, under the applicable financial
    reporting standards, we are allowed to consider the scheduled
    reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable
    income, and tax planning strategies. Our estimates of future
    taxable income take into consideration, among other items, our
    estimates of future income tax deductions related to the
    exercise of stock options. Based upon the level of historical
    taxable income and income tax liability and projections for
    future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred tax
    assets are utilizable, we believe it is more likely than not
    that we will realize the benefits of our entire deferred tax
    assets. In the event that actual results differ from our
    estimates or we adjust our estimates in future periods, we may
    need to establish a valuation allowance, which could materially
    impact our financial position and results of operations.

As of December 31, 2008, undistributed foreign earnings of
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    included in consolidated retained earnings aggregated
    approximately $2,071.3 million. We intend to reinvest these
    earnings indefinitely in operations outside the U.S. It is
    not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that
    might be payable if such earnings were remitted to the U.S.

IRS
    Settlement   

During 2007, the IRS completed its examination of Biogen Idec
    Inc. s consolidated federal income tax returns for the
    fiscal years 2003 and 2004 and issued an assessment. We
    subsequently paid amounts related to issues agreed to with the
    IRS and are appealing several issues. As a result of this
    examination activity, we reassessed our liability for income tax
    contingencies to reflect the IRS findings and recorded a
    $14.7 million reduction in our liabilities for income tax
    contingencies during the second quarter of 2007.

F-46

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

During 2005, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, completed its
    examination of legacy Biogen, Inc. s, now Biogen Idec MA,
    Inc. s, consolidated federal income tax returns for the
    fiscal years 2001 and 2002 and issued an assessment. We
    subsequently paid the majority of the amounts assessed and are
    appealing one issue.

Contingency   

On September 12, 2006, we received a Notice of Assessment
    from the Massachusetts Department of Revenue for
    $38.9 million, which includes penalties and interest, with
    respect to the 2001, 2002, and 2003 tax years. We believe that
    we have meritorious defenses to the proposed adjustment and will
    vigorously oppose the assessment. We believe that the assessment
    does not impact the level of liabilities for our income tax
    contingencies. However, there is a possibility that we may not
    prevail in all of our assertions. If this is resolved
    unfavorably in the future, this could have a material impact on
    our future effective tax rate and our results of operations in
    the period in which an event would occur.

Adoption
    of FASB Interpretation No. 48   

Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted the provisions of
    FIN 48. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s
    financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109.
    FIN 48 also prescribes a recognition threshold and
    measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition
    and measurement of each tax position taken or expected to be
    taken in a tax return. As a result of the adoption of
    FIN 48, we recognized a reduction in the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits of $14.2 million, which was
    recorded as a $1.8 million reduction to the January 1,
    2007 balance of our accumulated deficit, a $9.1 million
    reduction in goodwill and a $3.3 million increase in our
    deferred tax liability.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of our
    unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in millions):

Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at
    December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007, and
    January 1, 2007, are $155.1 million,
    $110.5 million, and $98.2 million (net of the federal
    benefit on state issues), respectively, of unrecognized tax
    benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective income
    tax rate in any future periods. We do not anticipate any
    significant changes in our positions in the next twelve months
    other than expected settlements which have been classified as
    current liabilities within the accompanying balance sheet.

We recognize potential interest and penalties accrued related to
    unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. During 2008 and
    2007, we recognized approximately $16.1 million and
    $14.5 million in interest expense, respectively.
    Additionally, during 2007, we reduced our interest accrual by
    $3.3 million due to the completion of an IRS examination as
    described above. We have accrued approximately
    $47.7 million and $31.6 million for the payment of
    interest at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007,
    respectively.

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal
    jurisdiction, and various states and foreign jurisdictions. With
    few exceptions, we are no longer subject to U.S. federal,
    state and local, or
     non-U.S. income 
    tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2001.

F-47

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

16.    

Research
    Collaborations  

In connection with our research and development efforts, we have
    entered into various collaboration arrangements which provide us
    with rights to develop, produce and market products using
    certain know-how, technology and patent rights maintained by the
    parties. Terms of the various license agreements may require us
    to make milestone payments upon the achievement of certain
    product development objectives and pay royalties on future
    sales, if any, of commercial products resulting from the
    collaboration.

Neurimmune   

In November 2007, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Neurimmune SubOne AG, or Neurimmune, for the worldwide
    development and commercialization of human antibodies for the
    treatment of Alzheimer s disease, or AD. The collaboration
    agreement is effective for 12 years from the first
    commercial sale of product using such compound. Neurimmune will
    conduct research to identify potential therapeutic antibodies
    and we will be responsible for the development and
    commercialization of all products. Under the terms of the
    agreement, we paid a $2.0 million upfront payment and may
    pay up to $367.5 million in milestone payments, as well as
    a royalty on net sales of any resulting commercial products. In
    2008, we paid $10.5 million in milestone payments. We also
    will reimburse Neurimmune for certain research and development
    costs incurred. We have determined that we are the primary
    beneficiary under FIN 46(R), because we are required to
    absorb the variability (increases or decreases) in development
    cost under the collaboration agreement. As a result, we have
    consolidated the results of Neurimmune and recorded an
    IPR D charge of $34.3 million. The amount allocated to
    IPR D relates to the development of the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody. At the effective date of the agreement, this compound
    had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative
    future use. We have allocated the $34.3 million to the
    minority interest, as charge represents the fair value of the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody retained by the minority interest holders. As a result,
    we have recorded a credit in minority interest, which is
    recorded in other income (expense). The assets and liabilities
    of Neurimmune are not significant as it is a research and
    development organization. Through December 31, 2008, we
    have spent an additional $6.5 million to develop the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody. We expect to incur approximately an additional
    $291.7 million to develop the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody for all indications under development. The estimated
    revenues from the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody are expected to be recognized beginning in 2018. A
    discount rate of 15% was used to value this project, which we
    believe to be commensurate with the stage of development of the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody and the uncertainties in the economic estimates
    described above.

Cardiokine   

In August 2007, our collaboration agreement with Cardiokine
    became effective. The agreement is for the joint development of
    lixivaptan, an oral compound for the potential treatment of
    hyponatremia in patients with congestive heart failure. The
    collaboration agreement is effective for 10 years from the
    first commercial sale of a product using such compound. We will
    be responsible for the global commercialization of lixivaptan
    and Cardiokine has an option for limited co-promotion in the U.S.

Under the terms of the agreement, we paid a $50.0 million
    upfront payment and will pay up to $170.0 million in
    milestone payments for successful development and global
    commercialization of lixivaptan, as well as royalties on
    commercial sales. The $50.0 million is reflected as
    research and development expense in the accompanying
    consolidated statement of income. We have determined that we are
    the primary beneficiary under FIN 46(R), because we are
    required to absorb the variability (increases or decreases) in
    development costs under the collaboration agreement. As a
    result, we have consolidated the results of Cardiokine and
    recorded an IPR D charge of approximately
    $30.0 million. The amount allocated to IPR D relates
    to the development of lixivaptan. At the effective date of the
    agreement, this compound had not reached technological
    feasibility and had no alternative future use. We have allocated
    the approximately $30.0 million to the minority interest,
    as the charge represents the fair value of the lixivaptan
    compound retained by the minority interest holders. As a result,
    we recorded a credit in

F-48

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

minority interest, which is recorded in other income (expense).
    The assets and liabilities of Cardiokine are not significant as
    it is a research and development organization. Through
    December 31, 2008, we have spent an additional
    $61.0 million to develop lixivaptan since the agreement
    became effective. We expect to incur approximately an additional
    $367.0 million to develop lixivaptan for all indications
    under development. The estimated revenues from lixivaptan are
    expected to be recognized beginning in 2012. A discount rate of
    11% was used to value this project, which we believe to be
    commensurate with the stage of development of lixivaptan and the
    uncertainties in the economic estimates described above.

mondo   

On September 14, 2006, we entered into an exclusive
    collaboration and license agreement with mondoBIOTECH, AG, a
    private Swiss biotechnology company In June 2007, we entered
    into a collaboration with a subsidiary of MondoBiotech AG,
    mondoGen, or mondo, to develop, manufacture and commercialize
    Aviptadil, a clinical compound for the treatment of pulmonary
    arterial hypertension, or PAH. In accordance with the agreement,
    we will be responsible for the global manufacturing, clinical
    development, regulatory approval and commercialization of
    Aviptadil. We finalized the development plan for Aviptadil and
    had mondo initiate additional clinical work in 2007.

Under the terms of the agreement, we paid mondo a
    $7.5 million upfront payment and will pay up to
    $30.0 million in milestones payments for successful
    development and commercialization of Aviptadil in PAH in the
    U.S. and Europe, as well as royalty payments on commercial
    sales. The $7.5 million upfront amount was recorded as
    research and development expense in 2006. We have determined
    that we are the primary beneficiary under FIN 46(R),
    because we are required to absorb the variability (increases or
    decreases) in development costs under the collaboration
    agreement. As a result, we have consolidated the results of
    mondo. The assets and liabilities of mondo are not significant
    as it is a research and development organization. Through
    December 31, 2008, we have spent an additional
    $29.9 million on the development of Aviptadil and could
    incur an additional $134.1 million to develop Aviptadil. We
    have determined that we are the primary beneficiary under
    FIN 46(R) and as a result, we consolidate the results of
    mondo.

Additionally, we have indicated our intention to make a minority
    equity investment of $5.0 million in mondo in the event
    that it undertakes an initial public offering.

Alnylam   

In September 2006, we entered into a collaboration agreement
    with Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Alnylam, related to
    discovery and development of RNAi therapeutics for the potential
    treatment of PML.

Under the terms of the collaboration, we and Alnylam will
    initially conduct investigative research into the potential of
    using RNAi technology to develop up to three therapeutics to
    treat PML. Of the therapeutics presented, we will select one
    development candidate and one back up candidate and will be
    responsible for the development and commercialization of the
    selected candidate. We would also have the option to develop and
    commercialize the backup candidate at our discretion. We will
    fund all research and development activities.

We paid Alnylam an upfront payment of $5.0 million and
    agreed to additional payments of up to $51.3 million in
    milestone payments, plus royalties in the event of successful
    development and utilization of any product resulting from the
    collaboration. The $5.0 million upfront payment was
    recorded as research and development expense in 2006.

UCB   

In September 2006, we entered into a global collaboration with
    UCB, S.A., or UCB, to jointly develop and commercialize CDP323
    for the treatment of relapsing-remitting MS and other potential
    indications. CDP323 is an orally active small molecule alpha-4
    integrin inhibitor in Phase 2 clinical trials.

F-49

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Under terms of the agreement, we paid UCB an upfront payment of
    $30.0 million and agreed to make development milestone
    payments to UCB for the first indication of up to
    $93.0 million, with total milestone payments of up to
    $71.3 million payable for any additional indications. We
    will also pay UCB up to $75.0 million in commercialization
    milestones and will contribute significantly to clinical costs
    for Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies. All commercialization costs and
    profits will be shared equally. The $30.0 million upfront
    payment was recorded as research and development expense in 2006.

Facet
    Biotech (Formerly PDL BioPharma, Inc.)   

In August 2005, we entered in a collaborative agreement with PDL
    BioPharma, Inc., or PDL, for the joint development, manufacture
    and commercialization of three Phase 2 antibody products. In
    2008, PDL spun off the research and development component of its
    business into a newly created public entity called Facet
    Biotech. Our collaboration agreement now resides with Facet
    Biotech (Facet). Under this agreement, we and Facet will share
    in the development and commercialization of Daclizumab in MS and
    indications other than transplant and respiratory diseases, and
    the development and commercialization of M200, or volociximab,
    and HuZAF, or fontolizumab, in all indications. Fontolizumab was
    discontinued during 2006. Both companies will share equally the
    costs of all development activities and all operating profits
    from each collaboration product within the U.S. and Europe.
    We paid Facet a non-refundable upfront licensing fee of
    $40.0 million for these product candidates, which we
    concluded had no alternative future uses and was therefore
    included in research and development expenses in 2005. We also
    accrued $10.0 million in research and development expense
    in 2005 for future payments that were determined to be
    unavoidable. The terms of the collaborative agreement require us
    to make certain development and commercialization milestone
    payments upon the achievement of certain program objectives
    totaling up to $660.0 million over the life of the
    agreement, of which $560.0 million relates to development,
    and $100.0 million relates to the commercialization of
    collaboration products.

In addition to the collaborative agreement, we purchased
    approximately $100.0 million of common stock, or 3.5% of
    its common stock, from Facet. We recorded an impairment charge
    of $18.3 million during 2006 to reflect an other than
    temporary impairment in the value of the stock we own. In 2007,
    we sold our entire investment in Facet for $99.5 million,
    resulting in a gain of $17.2 million.

Sunesis   

In December 2002, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Sunesis, related to the
    discovery and development of oral therapeutics for the treatment
    of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. In August 2004, we
    entered into a collaborative agreement with Sunesis to discover
    and develop small molecule cancer therapeutics targeting
    primarily kinases. Under the agreement, we acquired exclusive
    licenses to develop and commercialize certain compounds
    resulting from the collaboration. Upon signing the agreement, we
    paid Sunesis a non-refundable upfront license fee of
    $7.0 million, which was recorded in research and
    development expenses in 2004. During 2005, we recorded
    $1.0 million to research and development expense for
    milestones achieved through the collaboration with Sunesis, of
    which $0.5 million was paid to Sunesis in 2005. We have
    committed to paying Sunesis additional amounts upon the
    completion of certain future research milestones and first and
    second indication development milestones. If all the milestones
    were to be achieved based on our plan of research, we would be
    required to pay up to an additional $302.0 million to
    Sunesis, excluding royalties.

Under the terms of the agreements, we purchased approximately
    4.2 million shares of preferred stock of Sunesis for
    $20.0 million and, in September 2005, we purchased
    $5.0 million of common stock of Sunesis as part of their
    initial public offering, or IPO. At the time of the IPO, our
    preferred stock was converted into shares of Sunesis common
    stock and, based on the IPO valuation, we wrote-down the value
    of our investment in Sunesis by $4.6 million as we had
    determined that the impairment was other than temporary.
    Following the IPO, we owned approximately 2.9 million
    shares, or 9.9% of the common stock. We recorded impairment
    charges of $4.9 million, $7.4 million and
    $7.2 million during 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, to
    reflect an other than temporary

F-50

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

impairments in the value of the stock we own. We now hold a
    total of 2.9 million shares of Sunesis, representing 8% of
    total shares outstanding. Our investment in Sunesis is included
    in investments and other assets and has a fair value of
    $0.9 million at December 31, 2008.

Vernalis   

In June 2004, we entered into a collaborative research and
    development agreement with Vernalis plc, or Vernalis, aimed at
    advancing research into Vernalis  adenosine A2A receptor
    antagonist program, which targets Parkinson s disease and
    other central nervous system disorders. Under the agreement, we
    received exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize
    Vernalis  lead compound, BIIB014, formerly V2006. We paid
    Vernalis an initial license fee of $10.0 million in July
    2004, which was recorded in research and development expenses in
    2004. Terms of the collaborative agreement may require us to
    make milestone payments upon the achievement of certain program
    objectives and pay royalties on future sales, if any, of
    commercial products resulting from the collaboration. In June
    2004, we made an investment of $5.5 million through
    subscription for approximately 6.2 million new Vernalis
    common shares, representing 4.19% of Vernalis 
    post-financing issued share capital, and committed to purchase
    an additional $4.0 million in the event of future Vernalis
    financing. In March 2005, we purchased approximately
    1.4 million additional shares under a qualified offering
    for $1.8 million, which fully satisfies our investment
    obligation to Vernalis. We paid development milestones of
    $3.0 million in 2006. If all the milestones were to be
    achieved, we would be required to pay up to an additional
    $85.0 million, excluding royalties, over the remaining life
    of the agreement. We account for our investment in Vernalis
    using the cost method of accounting, subject to periodic review
    of impairment. In 2008 and 2007, we recorded an impairment
    charge of $0.5 million and $6.3 million, respectively,
    representing an other than temporary impairment in the stock we
    own. We now hold a total of approximately 7.6 million
    shares of Vernalis, representing 2% of total shares outstanding.
    Our investment in Vernalis is included in investments and other
    assets and has a fair value of $0.3 million at
    December 31, 2008.

MPM   

In May 2006, we became a limited partner in MPM Bioventures IV-
    Strategic Fund, LP, a limited partnership that invests in
    entities that are engaged in the research, development,
    manufacture, marketing
     and/or  sale
    of novel biological products or technologies. Due to our
    percentage of ownership, we account for our investment in this
    fund under the equity method of accounting. We have committed to
    contribute up to $10.0 million to the LP and made an
    initial contribution of $1.1 million to the LP. Through
    December 31, 2008, we have contributed $3.7 million
    into the LP, which is included in investments and other assets
    in our consolidated balance sheets.

In February 2006, we became a limited partner in MPM Bioventures
    IV-QP, LP, a limited partnership that invests in entities that
    are engaged in the research, development, manufacture, marketing
     and/or  sale
    of novel biological products or technologies. Due to our
    percentage of ownership, we account for our investment in this
    fund under the cost method of accounting. We have committed to
    contribute up to $10.0 million to the LP and made an
    initial contribution of $1.0 million to the LP. Through
    December 31, 2008, we have contributed $5.2 million
    into the LP, which is included in investments and other assets
    in our consolidated balance sheets.

In May 2004, we entered into a limited partnership agreement as
    a limited partner with MPM Bioventures III GP, LP, to
    create MPM Bioventures Strategic Fund, LP, or the Strategic
    Fund. The purpose of the Strategic Fund is to make, manage, and
    supervise investments in biotechnology companies with novel
    products or technologies that fit strategically with Biogen
    Idec. Due to our percentage of ownership, we account for our
    investment in this fund under the equity method of accounting.
    The Strategic Fund takes only minority positions in the equity
    of its investments, and does not seek to engage in
     day-to-day 
    management of the entities. In February 2006, we adjusted our
    commitment to the Strategic Fund to approximately
    $32.0 million over a three-year period. Through
    December 31, 2008, we contributed $25.4 million to the
    Strategic Fund.

F-51

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In April 2004, we became a limited partner in MPM Bioventures
    III-QP, LP, a limited partnership that invests in entities that
    are engaged in the research, development, manufacture, marketing
     and/or  sale
    of novel biological products or technologies. Due to our
    percentage of ownership, we account for our investment in this
    fund under the cost method of accounting. We have committed to
    contribute $4.0 million to the LP. Through
    December 31, 2008, we have contributed $3.9 million
    into the LP, which is included in investments and other assets
    in our consolidated balance sheets.

Vetter   

In August 2003, Biogen, Inc. entered into a collaboration
    agreement with Vetter Pharma-Fertigung GmbH   Co.
    KG, or Vetter, for the fill-finish of our products, including
    liquid AVONEX and TYSABRI. As of December 31, 2007, we have
    made milestone payments to Vetter of 35.0 million euros in
    return for its reserving certain manufacturing capacity for us
    at its fill-finish facility. Under the terms of the agreement,
    these payments will reduce payments due on our future purchases
    of inventory from Vetter over a seven-year period, which
    commenced in 2007. During 2008 and 2007, we consumed
    approximately $6.5 million and $5.6 million,
    respectively, of this asset. Accordingly, as of
    December 31, 2008, we have recorded $8.4 million and
    $21.9 million of these payments in other current assets and
    in investments and other assets, respectively, in our
    consolidated balance sheets. The related portion of the asset
    will be reclassified to inventory when purchases from Vetter are
    made.

Schering   

In June 1999, we entered into a collaboration and license
    agreement with Schering AG, aimed at the development and
    commercialization of ZEVALIN. Under the terms of the agreement,
    we may receive milestone and research and development support
    payments totaling up to $47.5 million, subject to the
    attainment of product development objectives. Schering AG
    received exclusive marketing and distribution rights to ZEVALIN
    outside the U.S., and we will continue to receive royalties on
    product sales by Schering AG. Under the terms of a separate
    supply agreement, we are obligated to meet Schering AG s
    clinical and commercial requirements for ZEVALIN. Schering AG
    may terminate these agreements for any reason. Under the above
    agreement, amounts earned by us and recognized as revenue for
    contract research and development approximate the research and
    development expenses incurred under the related agreement.
    Although in December 2007, we sold our rights to market, sell,
    manufacture and develop ZEVALIN in the U.S., we still
    participate in this agreement and we are reimbursed by CTI for
    our costs incurred in fulfilling our obligation.

Targeted   

We had previous agreements that have expired with Targeted
    Genetics Corporation, or Targeted, for gene therapy and
    research. We have no ongoing commitments with respect to
    Targeted. In connection with the expired agreements, however, we
    acquired shares of Targeted. In 2005, we recognized
    $9.2 million for impairments of our Targeted investment
    that was determined to be
     other-than-temporary. 
    In 2006, we received one million shares of Targeted and
    $0.5 million in cash in exchange for forgiveness of
    $5.7 million of debt owed by Targeted to us. We recorded a
    gain of $3.4 million upon receipt of the shares and the
    cash payment. As a result of the transactions, as of
    December 31, 2006, we owned 19.9% of the outstanding shares
    of Targeted. We account for our investment in Targeted using the
    cost method. During 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of
    $2.9 million related to Targeted and at December 31,
    2008, we held 2.2 million shares, representing 11% of the
    outstanding shares, with a fair market value of
    $0.5 million. This amount is included in investments and
    other assets on our consolidated balance sheet.

17.    

Unconsolidated
    Joint Business Arrangement  

We have a collaboration with Genentech Inc., or Genentech, that
    was created and operates by agreement rather than through a
    joint venture or other legal entity. Our rights under the terms
    of our amended and restated

F-52

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

collaboration agreement with Genentech include co-exclusive
    rights to develop, commercialize and market RITUXAN in the
    United States and Canada with Genentech. Genentech has the
    exclusive right to develop, commercialize and market RITUXAN in
    the rest of the world. We have assigned our rights to develop,
    commercialize and market RITUXAN in Canada to F.
    Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., or Roche. Genentech shares a portion
    of the pretax U.S. co-promotion profits with us and Roche
    shares a portion of the pretax Canadian co-promotion profits of
    RITUXAN with us.

In the U.S., we contribute resources to selling and the
    continued development of RITUXAN. Genentech is responsible for
    worldwide manufacturing of RITUXAN. Genentech also is
    responsible for the primary support functions for the
    commercialization of RITUXAN in the U.S. including selling
    and marketing, customer service, order entry, distribution,
    shipping and billing. Genentech also incurs the majority of
    continuing development costs for RITUXAN. Under the arrangement,
    we have a limited sales force as well as limited development
    activity.

Under the terms of separate sublicense agreements between
    Genentech and Roche, Roche is responsible for commercialization
    of RITUXAN outside the U.S., except in Japan where RITUXAN is
     co-promoted 
    by Zenyaku and Chugai. There is no direct contractual
    arrangement between us, Roche, Zenyaku or Chugai.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consists of
    (1) our share of pretax co-promotion profits in the
    U.S. and Canada and (2) royalty revenue from sales of
    RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada by Roche, Zenyaku and
    Chugai. Pre-tax co-promotion profits are calculated and paid to
    us by Genentech in the U.S. and by Roche in Canada. Pre-tax
    co-promotion profits consist of U.S. and Canadian sales of
    RITUXAN to third-party customers net of discounts and allowances
    less the cost to manufacture RITUXAN, third-party royalty
    expenses, distribution, selling, and marketing expenses, and
    joint development expenses incurred by Genentech, Roche and us.

Under the amended and restated collaboration agreement, our
    current pretax co-promotion profit-sharing formula, which resets
    annually, is as follows:

Co-promotion Operating Profits 

Biogen Idec s Share of Co-promotion Profits 

First $50 million

30

%

Greater than $50 million

40

%

In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the 40% threshold was met during the
    first quarter. For each calendar year or portion thereof
    following the approval date of the first New Anti-CD20 Product,
    the pretax co-promotion profit-sharing formula for RITUXAN and
    New Anti-CD20 Products sold by us and Genentech will change to
    the following:

First New Anti-CD20 Product U.S. 

Biogen Idec s Share 

Co-promotion Operating Profits 

Gross Product Sales 

of Co-promotion Profits 

First $50 million(1)

N/A

30

%

Greater than $50 million

Until such sales exceed $150 million

38

%

in any calendar
     year(2) 

Or

After such sales exceed $150 million

35

%

in any calendar year and until such sales exceed $350 million in
    any calendar
     year(3) 

Or

After such sales exceed $350 million

30

%

in any calendar
     year(4) 

F-53

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

(1)  

not applicable in the calendar year the first New Anti-CD20
    Product is approved if $50 million in co-promotion
    operating profits has already been achieved in such calendar
    year through sales of RITUXAN. 

(2)  

if we are recording our share of RITUXAN co-promotion profits at
    40%, upon the approval date of the first New Anti-CD20 Product,
    our share of co-promotion profits for RITUXAN and the New
    Anti-CD20 Product will be immediately reduced to 38% following
    the approval date of the first New Anti-CD20 Product until the
    $150 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales level is
    achieved. 

(3)  

if $150 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales is
    achieved in the same calendar year the first New Anti-CD20
    Product receives approval, then the 35% co-promotion
    profit-sharing rate will not be effective until January 1 of the
    following calendar year. Once the $150 million in first New
    Anti-CD20 Product sales level is achieved then our share of
     co-promotion 
    profits for the balance of the year and all subsequent
    years  (after the first $50 million in co-promotion
    operating profits in such years) will be 35% until the
    $350 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales level is
    achieved. 

(4)  

if $350 million in new product sales is achieved in the
    same calendar year that $150 million in new product sales
    is achieved, then the 30% co-promotion profit-sharing rate will
    not be effective until January 1 of the following calendar year
    (or January 1 of the second following calendar year if the first
    New Anti-CD20 Product receives approval and, in the same
    calendar year, the $150 million and $350 million in
    first New Anti-CD20 Product sales levels are achieved). Once the
    $350 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales level is
    achieved then our share of co-promotion profits for the balance
    of the year and all subsequent years will be 30%. 

Currently, we record our share of expenses incurred for the
    development of New Anti-CD20 Products in research and
    development expense until such time as a New Anti-CD20 Product
    is approved, at which time we will record our share of pretax
    co-promotion profits related to the New Anti-CD20 Product in
    revenues from unconsolidated joint business. We record our
    royalty and co-promotion profits revenue on sales of RITUXAN
    outside the U.S. on a cash basis. Under the amended and
    restated collaboration agreement, we will receive lower royalty
    revenue from Genentech on sales by Roche and Zenyaku of New
    Anti-CD20 Products, as compared to royalty revenue received on
    sales of RITUXAN. The royalty period with respect to all
    products is 11 years from the first commercial sale of such
    product on a
     country-by-country 
    basis.

The amended and restated collaboration agreement provides that,
    upon the occurrence of a Biogen Idec
     change-in-control 
    as described in the agreement, within 90 days of that
     change-in-control, 
    Genentech may present an offer to us to purchase our rights to
    RITUXAN. We must then accept Genentech s offer or purchase
    Genentech s rights to RITUXAN for an amount proportioned
    (using the profit sharing ratio between us) to Genentech s
    offer. If Genentech presents such an offer in such a situation,
    then Genentech will be deemed concurrently to have exercised a
    right, in exchange for a royalty on net sales in the
    U.S. of any New Anti-CD20 Products or Third Party Anti-CD20
    Products developed under the agreement, to purchase our interest
    in each such product. As discussed in Note 19, Litigation,
    Genentech asserted for the first time in 2006 that the November
    2003 transaction in which Idec acquired Biogen and became Biogen
    Idec was a change of control under the Collaboration Agreement.
    We strongly disagree that the Merger was a change of control,
    but if it was, our position is that Genentech s rights
    under the
     change-in-control 
    provision in the Collaboration Agreement have long since expired.

Concurrent with the original collaboration agreement, we also
    entered into an expression technology license agreement with
    Genentech (for a proprietary gene expression technology
    developed by us) and a preferred stock purchase agreement
    providing for certain equity investments in us by Genentech (see
    Note 20, Shareholders  Equity).

Under the terms of separate agreements with Genentech,
    commercialization of RITUXAN outside the U.S. is the
    responsibility of Roche, except in Japan where RITUXAN is
     co-promoted 
    by Zenyaku and Chugai. We receive royalties from Genentech on
    sales by Roche, Zenyaku and Chugai of RITUXAN outside the U.S.,
    and Canada. Revenue on sales of RITUXAN in Canada are received
    directly from Roche. Under our amended and restated
    collaborative agreement with Genentech, we will receive lower
    royalty revenue from Genentech on sales by Roche

F-54

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

and Zenyaku of New Anti-CD20 Products and only for the first
    11 years from the date of first commercial sale of such New
    Anti-CD20 Products.

Total revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist of the
    following (in millions):

Revenue on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. consists of our
    share of
     co-promotion 
    profits in Canada and royalty revenue on sales of RITUXAN
    outside the U.S. and Canada. The royalty period with respect to
    all products is 11 years from the first commercial sale of
    such product on a country by country basis. RITUXAN was launched
    in 1998 in most European countries and in 2001 in Japan.
    Therefore, we expect a significant decrease in royalty revenues
    on sales of RITUXAN outside the US beginning in the latter half
    of 2009. Specifically, the royalty period with respect to sales
    in France, Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom will
    expire in 2009. As a result, royalty revenue is expected to be
    in the range of $250.0 million to $290.0 million in
    2009. The royalty period with respect to sales in Italy will
    expire in 2010. The royalty period with respect to sales in
    other countries will expire through 2012.

In 2008, under the terms of our collaboration agreement, we paid
    Genentech $31.5 million to participate in a license
    agreement with Roche for the development of a Third Party
    Anti-CD20 Product. This was recorded as research and development
    cost in our consolidated statement of operations as the product
    had no alternative future use. In addition, in 2008 we received
    $12.4 million from Genentech pursuant to Roche choosing to
    participate in a study of RITUXAN in primary-progressive
    multiple sclerosis. This was recorded as revenue from
    unconsolidated joint business in our consolidated statement of
    operations.

18.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Leases   

In November 2008, we entered into an agreement with a real
    estate developer for the construction and leasing of a
    356,000 square foot office building in Weston, MA. The
    construction of the building is to commence in 2009, and the
    completion of the building is slated for 2010. The lease term is
    from 2010 through 2025, and we have options to extend the term
    of the lease through 2035. We will account for this lease as an
    operating lease.

We rent laboratory and office space and certain equipment under
    noncancellable operating leases. The rental expense under these
    leases, which terminate at various dates through 2015, amounted
    to $36.0 million in 2008, $33.1 million in 2007, and
    $26.2 million in 2006. The lease agreements contain various
    clauses for renewal at our option and, in certain cases,
    escalation clauses typically linked to rates of inflation.

At December 31, 2008, minimum rental commitments under
    noncancellable leases for each of the next five years and total
    thereafter were as follows (in millions)

F-55

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Construction
    Commitments   

As of December 31, 2008, we have completed the first phase
    of construction of our large-scale biologic manufacturing
    facility in Hiller d, Denmark, which included partial
    completion of a bulk manufacturing component, a labeling and
    packaging component, and installation of major equipment. We are
    proceeding with the second phase of the project, including the
    completion of the large scale bulk manufacturing component and
    construction of a warehouse. As of December 31, 2008, we
    had contractual commitments of approximately $14.5 million
    for the second phase. This second phase of the project is
    expected to be ready for commercial production in 2010.

Along with several other major pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies, Biogen, Inc. (now Biogen Idec MA, Inc., one of our
    wholly-owned subsidiaries) or, in some cases, Biogen Idec Inc.,
    was named as a defendant in lawsuits filed by the City of New
    York and numerous Counties of the State of New York. All of the
    cases   except for cases filed by the County of Erie,
    County of Oswego and County of Schenectady (the  Three
    County Actions )   are the subject of a
    Consolidated Complaint ( Consolidated Complaint ),
    first filed on June 15, 2005 in the U.S. District
    Court for the District of Massachusetts in Multi-District
    Litigation No. 1456 ( the MDL proceedings ). The
    complaints allege that the defendants (i) fraudulently
    reported the Average Wholesale Price for certain drugs for which
    Medicaid provides reimbursement ( Covered Drugs 
    (ii) marketed and promoted the sale of Covered Drugs to
    providers based on the providers  ability to collect
    inflated payments from the government and Medicaid beneficiaries
    that exceeded payments possible for competing drugs;
    (iii) provided financing incentives to providers to
    over-prescribe Covered Drugs or to prescribe Covered Drugs in
    place of competing drugs; and (iv) overcharged Medicaid for
    illegally inflated Covered Drugs reimbursements. Among other
    things, the complaints allege violations of New York state law
    and advance common law claims for unfair trade practices, fraud,
    and unjust enrichment. In addition, the amended Consolidated
    Complaint alleges that the defendants failed to accurately
    report the  best price  on the Covered Drugs to the
    Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to rebate
    agreements, and excluded from their reporting certain discounts
    and other rebates that would have reduced the  best
    price.  With respect to the MDL proceedings, some of the
    plaintiffs  claims were dismissed, and the parties,
    including Biogen Idec, began a mediation of the outstanding
    claims on July 1, 2008. We have not formed an opinion that
    an unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote  in any of these cases, and do not express an
    opinion at this time as to their likely outcome or as to the
    magnitude or range of any potential loss. We believe that we
    have good and valid defenses to each of these complaints and are
    vigorously defending against them.

Along with several other major pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies, we were also named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed
    by the Attorney General of Arizona in the Superior Court of the
    State of Arizona and transferred to the MDL proceedings. The
    complaint, as amended on March 13, 2007, is brought on
    behalf of Arizona consumers and other payors for drugs, and
    alleges that the defendants violated the state consumer fraud
    statute by fraudulently reporting the Average Wholesale Price
    for certain drugs covered by various private and public
    insurance mechanisms and by marketing these drugs to providers
    based on the providers  ability to collect inflated
    payments from third-party payors. Biogen Idec and other
    defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which
    is pending. On December 26, 2007, Biogen Idec and other
    defendants agreed to a mediation, which is now underway. We have
    not formed an opinion that an unfavorable outcome is either
     probable  or  remote,  and do not express
    an opinion at this time as to the likely outcome of the matter
    or as to the magnitude or range of any potential loss. We
    believe that we have good and valid defenses to the complaint
    and intend vigorously to defend the case.

On June 17, 2006, Biogen Idec filed a Demand for
    Arbitration against Genentech, Inc. with the American
    Arbitration Association ( AAA ), which Demand was
    amended on December 5, 2006 and on January 29, 2008.
    In the Demand, Biogen Idec alleged that Genentech breached the
    parties  Amended and Restated Collaboration Agreement dated
    June 19, 2003 (the  Collaboration Agreement ), by
    failing to honor Biogen Idec s contractual

F-56

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

right to participate in strategic decisions affecting the
    parties  joint development and commercialization of certain
    pharmaceutical products, including humanized anti-CD20
    antibodies. Genentech filed an Answering Statement in response
    to Biogen Idec s Demand in which Genentech denied that it
    had breached the Collaboration Agreement and alleged that Biogen
    Idec had breached the Collaboration Agreement. In its Answering
    Statement, filed in 2006, Genentech also asserted for the first
    time that the November 2003 transaction in which Idec
    Pharmaceuticals acquired Biogen and became Biogen Idec was a
    change of control under the Collaboration Agreement, a position
    with which we disagree strongly. It is our position that the
    Biogen Idec merger did not constitute a change of control under
    the Collaboration Agreement and that, even if it did,
    Genentech s rights under the change of control provision,
    which must be asserted within ninety (90) days of the
    change of control event, have long since expired. We intend to
    vigorously assert that position if Genentech persists in making
    this claim. The hearing has concluded and we anticipate a
    decision in mid-2009. We have not formed an opinion that an
    unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote,  and do not express an opinion at this time
    as to the likely outcome of the matter or as to the magnitude or
    range of any potential loss. We believe that we have good and
    valid defenses to Genentech s allegations in the
    arbitration and intend vigorously to defend against these
    allegations.

On September 12, 2006, the Massachusetts Department of
    Revenue ( DOR ) issued a notice of assessment against
    Biogen Idec MA, Inc. for $38.9 million of corporate excise
    tax for 2002, which includes associated interest and penalties.
    On December 6, 2006, we filed an abatement application with
    the DOR, seeking abatements for
     2001-2003. 
    The abatement application was denied on July 24, 2007. On
    July 25, 2007, we filed a petition with the Massachusetts
    Appellate Tax Board, seeking abatements of corporate excise tax
    for
     2001-2003 
    and adjustments in certain credits and credit carryforwards for
     2001-2003. 
    Issues before the Board include the computation of Biogen Idec
    MA s sales factor for
     2001-2003, 
    computation of Biogen Idec MA s research credits for those
    same years, and the availability of deductions for certain
    expenses and partnership flow-through items. We intend to
    contest this matter vigorously. We believe that the assessment
    does not impact the level of liabilities for income tax
    contingencies.

On October 4, 2004, Genentech, Inc. received a subpoena
    from the U.S. Department of Justice requesting documents
    related to the promotion of RITUXAN. We market RITUXAN in the
    U.S. in collaboration with Genentech. Genentech has
    disclosed that it is cooperating with the associated
    investigation, and that it has been advised the investigation is
    both civil and criminal in nature. We are cooperating with the
    U.S. Department of Justice in its investigation of
    Genentech. The potential outcome of this matter and its impact
    on us cannot be determined at this time.

On August 10, 2004, Classen Immunotherapies, Inc. filed
    suit against us, GlaxoSmithKline, Chiron Corporation,
    Merck   Co., Inc., and Kaiser-Permanente, Inc. in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland contending that
    we induced infringement of U.S. Patent Nos, 6,420,139,
    6,638,739, 5,728,383, and 5,723,283, all of which are directed
    to various methods of immunization or determination of
    immunization schedules. All counts asserted against us by
    Classen were dismissed by the District Court, and the judgment
    in our favor was affirmed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    Federal Circuit on December 19, 2008. The plaintiff has
    filed a petition for rehearing en banc, which is pending. We
    have not formed an opinion that an unfavorable outcome is either
     probable  or  remote,  and do not express
    an opinion at this time as to the likely outcome of the matter
    or as to the magnitude or range of any potential loss. We
    believe that we have good and valid defenses to the
    plaintiff s allegations and intend to continue to
    vigorously defend against these allegations.

In January 2008, the European Commission ( EC ) began
    an industry-wide antitrust inquiry into competitive conditions
    within the pharmaceutical sector. As part of the inquiry, the EC
    requested information from approximately 100 companies,
    including Biogen Idec. The EC published a preliminary report in
    November 2008 and has announced that it expects to publish a
    final report in the spring of 2009. The potential outcome of
    this matter and its impact on us cannot be determined at this
    time.

F-57

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

On October 27, 2008, Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH
    ( Sanofi ) filed suit against Genentech and Biogen
    Idec in federal court in Texas (E.D. Tex.) claiming that Rituxan
    and certain other Genentech products infringe U.S. Patents
    5,849,522 (the    522 patent ) and 6,218,140
    (the    140 patent ). Sanofi seeks
    preliminary and permanent injunctions, compensatory and
    exemplary damages, and other relief. On October 27, 2008,
    Genentech and Biogen Idec filed a complaint against Sanofi,
    Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC, and Sanofi-Aventis U.S. Inc.
    in federal court in California (N.D. Cal.) seeking a declaratory
    judgment that Rituxan and other Genentech products do not
    infringe the  522 patent or the  140 patent, and a
    declaratory judgment that those patents are invalid. In
    addition, on October 24, 2008, Hoechst GmbH filed with the
    ICC International Court of Arbitration (Paris) a request for
    arbitration against Genentech, relating to a terminated
    agreement between Hoechst s predecessor and Genentech that
    pertained to the above-referenced patents and related patents
    outside the U.S. Hoechst is seeking payment of royalties on
    sales of Genentech products, damages for breach of contract, and
    other relief. We have not formed an opinion that an unfavorable
    outcome is either  probable  or  remote, 
    and do not express an opinion at this time as to the likely
    outcome of the matters or as to the magnitude or range of any
    potential loss. We believe that we have good and valid defenses
    and intend vigorously to defend against the allegations against
    us.

In addition, we are involved in product liability claims and
    other legal proceedings generally incidental to our normal
    business activities. While the outcome of any of these
    proceedings cannot be accurately predicted, we do not believe
    the ultimate resolution of any of these existing matters would
    have a material adverse effect on our business or financial
    conditions.

20.    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

Preferred
    Stock   

Preferred stock was comprised of the following (in thousands):

We have 8,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock authorized, of
    which 1,750,000 shares have been designated as
    Series A Preferred Stock and 1,000,000 shares have
    been designated as Series X Junior Participating Preferred
    Stock. The balance may be issued without a vote or action of
    stockholders from time to time in classes or series with the
    designations, powers, preferences, and the relative,
    participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of
    each such class or series and any qualifications, limitations or
    restrictions thereon as set forth in the stock certificate. Any
    such Preferred Stock may rank prior to common stock as to
    dividend rights, liquidation preference or both, and may have
    full or limited voting rights and may be convertible into shares
    of common stock. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, there
    were 8,221 shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued
    and outstanding. These shares carry a liquidation preference of
    $67 and are convertible into 60 shares of common stock per
    share of Preferred Stock. No other shares of Preferred Stock are
    issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Stockholder
    Rights Plan   

In January 2009, our Board of Directors voted to terminate our
    stockholders rights plan effective as of January 30, 2009.
    The plan was scheduled to expire on July 26, 2011 and was
    originally adopted by the Board of Directors in 1997. Under the
    rights plan, each share of our common stock had one
     right  attached to it that entitled

F-58

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

the holder to purchase our Series X Junior Participating
    Preferred Stock under the circumstances specified in the rights
    plan. As a result of our Board of Director s action, no
    rights are outstanding or exercisable.

Stock
    Repurchase Programs   

In October 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common
    stock. The repurchased stock will provide us with treasury
    shares for general corporate purposes, such as common stock to
    be issued under our employee equity and stock purchase plans.
    This repurchase program expired October 4, 2006. During
    2006, we repurchased 7.5 million shares at a cost of
    $320.3 million. During 2005, we repurchased
    7.5 million shares at a cost of $324.3 million.

In October 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to an additional 20.0 million shares of
    our common stock. The repurchased stock will provide us with
    treasury shares for general corporate purposes, such as common
    stock to be issued under our employee equity and stock purchase
    plans. This repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
    We repurchased approximately 12.8 million shares of our
    common stock for $738.9 million under the share repurchase
    program as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to
    December 31, 2008, we repurchased an additional
    1.2 million shares for a cost of $57.6 million and
    have approximately 6.0 million shares remaining available
    for repurchase under this program.

Reclassification   

In the year ended December 31, 2008, we reclassified
    amounts within the statement of shareholder s equity,
    resulting in an approximately $78.6 million correction in
    Additional Paid-in Capital and Retained Earnings (Accumulated
    Deficit) balances in connection with the re-issuance of treasury
    stock at a loss. In the year ended December 31, 2007 we
    reclassified amounts within the statements of stockholders
    equity, resulting in an approximately $48.0 million
    correction in the treasury stock and common stock balances.

On June 27, 2007, pursuant to the terms of a tender offer,
    we accepted for payment 56,424,155 shares of our common
    stock at a price of $53.00 per share for a purchase price of
    $2,990.5 million. As the obligation of
    $2,990.5 million was incurred on June 27, 2007 and
    funded on July 2, 2007, pursuant to Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 150,  Accounting for Certain
    Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities
    and Equity , or SFAS 150, we recorded the present value
    of the obligation of $2,988.2 million on June 27,
    2007, and the $2.3 million difference between the present
    value of the obligation and funded amount was recognized as
    interest expense. We funded the tender offer through existing
    cash and cash equivalents of $1,490.5 million and
    $1,500.0 million borrowed under our short-term loan
    facility as described in Note 8, Indebtedness. We retired
    all of these shares in July 2007. In connection with this
    retirement, in accordance with our policy, we recorded an
    approximately $2,991 million reduction in treasury stock
    and additional
     paid-in-capital. 

F-59

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

22.    

Segment
    Information  

We operate in one business segment, which is the business of
    development, manufacturing and commercialization of novel
    therapeutics for human healthcare and, therefore, our chief
    operating decision-maker manages the operations of our Company
    as a single operating segment. Enterprise-wide disclosures about
    product revenues, other revenues and long-lived assets by
    geographic area and information relating to major customers are
    presented below. Revenues are primarily attributed to individual
    countries based on location of the customer or licensee.

Revenue by product is as follows (in millions):

Our geographic information is as follows (in millions):

In 2008, we recorded revenue from two wholesale distributors
    accounting for a total of 16.2% and 13.1% of product revenue,
    respectively.

In 2007, we recorded revenue from two wholesale distributors
    accounting for a total of 19.4% and 15.2% of total product
    revenue, respectively.

In 2006, we recorded revenue from one specialty distributor and
    three wholesale distributors accounting for a total of 15%, 18%,
    14%, and 12% of total product revenue, respectively.

Approximately 28%, 29%, and 30% of our total revenues in 2008,
    2007, and 2006, respectively, are derived from our joint
    business arrangement with Genentech (see Note 17,
    Unconsolidated Joint Business Arrangement). Included in long
    lived assets in Europe at December 31, 2008 and 2007 is
    approximately $611.5 million and $480.5 million,
    respectively, related to our operations in Denmark.

In 2008, we discovered that amounts previously disclosed in our
    2007 financial statements for
     long-lived 
    assets in the US, Europe, Asia and Other of
    $1,021.3 million, $1,516.6 million, $3.1 million,
    and $89.7 million, respectively, inappropriately included
     long-term 
    marketable securities, as well as misclassifications in
    geographic categories, principally between the US and Europe.

F-60

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

23.    

Severance
    and Other Restructuring Costs  

During 2008, we incurred $5.0 million in restructuring
    costs, primarily related to the reorganization of our legal
    structure and the consolidation of certain organizational
    functions, which are included in research and development and
    selling, general and administrative expense. During 2007, we
    incurred $1.8 million in restructuring costs, primarily
    related to the Syntonix acquisition and the ZEVALIN divestiture,
    which are included in selling, general and administrative
    expense. During 2006, we incurred restructuring costs associated
    with acquisitions and planned dispositions. Specifically, we
    incurred $1.2 million in severance costs associated with
    the acquisition of Conforma, and $1.7 million related in
    headcount reductions related to the planned disposition of our
    ZEVALIN product line. At December 31, 2008, there are no
    material remaining restructuring accruals on our consolidated
    balance sheets.

At December 31, 2008, we have no liabilities recorded for
    guarantees, as defined by No. 45,  Guarantor s
    Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
    Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation
    of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of
    FASB Interpretation No. 34,  or FIN 45, as the
    value of our guarantees are not material.

We enter into indemnification provisions under our agreements
    with other companies in the ordinary course of business,
    typically with business partners, contractors, clinical sites
    and customers. Under these provisions, we generally indemnify
    and hold harmless the indemnified party for losses suffered or
    incurred by the indemnified party as a result of our activities.
    These indemnification provisions generally survive termination
    of the underlying agreement. The maximum potential amount of
    future payments we could be required to make under these
    indemnification provisions is unlimited. However, to date we
    have not incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle
    claims related to these indemnification provisions. As a result,
    the estimated fair value of these agreements is minimal.
    Accordingly, we have no liabilities recorded for these
    agreements as of December 31, 2008.

In connection with the relocation from leased facilities to our
    research campus in San Diego, California, we entered into a
    lease assignment, in January 2005, with Tanox West, Inc., or
    Tanox, for a manufacturing facility in San Diego for which
    we had outstanding lease obligations through September 2008.
    This lease has expired and as of December 31, 2008, we have
    no obligations under this lease.

25.    

Facility
    Impairments and Loss (Gain) on Dispositions  

In 2008, as part of the lease agreement described in
    Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, we sold the
    development rights on a parcel of land in Cambridge, MA for
    $11.4 million in a non monetary transaction and we
    recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $9.2 million on
    the sale. In December 2006, we completed the sale of a research
    building at our Cambridge, Massachusetts facility. Proceeds from
    the sale were approximately $39.5 million. We recorded a
    pre-tax gain of $15.6 million on the sale. We continue to
    occupy a minor portion of the building under a leasing
    arrangement. In April 2006, we sold the worldwide rights and
    other assets of AMEVIVE for $59.8 million, including
    $43.7 million of inventory on hand, to Astellas Pharma US,
    Inc. As of December 31, 2005, our AMEVIVE assets held for
    sale included $8.0 million, net, related to intangible
    assets, and $5.4 million of property, plant and equipment,
    net, and were reported separately in current assets on the
    consolidated balance sheet. The pre-tax gain on this sale of
    approximately $2.8 million was deferred and is being
    recognized over the period of a related long-term supply
    contract. In February 2006, we sold our clinical manufacturing
    facility in Oceanside, California, known as NICO. The assets
    associated with the facility were included in assets held for
    sale on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,
    2005. Total consideration was $29.0 million. In 2005, we
    recorded impairment charges totaling $28.0 million to
    reduce the carrying value of NICO to its net realizable value.
    No additional loss resulted from completion of the sale.

F-61

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

26.    

Quarterly
    Financial Data (Unaudited)  

(a)  

The first quarter of 2007 includes a charge of
    $18.4 million for in-process research and development
    related to the acquisition of Syntonix. 

(b)  

The third quarter of 2007 includes a charge of approximately
    $30 million for in-process research and development related
    to our collaboration with Cardiokine Biopharma LLC. This amount
    was offset by minority interest income of approximately
    $30 million, representing the value of the underlying
    technology retained by the parent company of Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC. 

(c)  

In July 2007, we purchased 56,424,155 shares of our common
    stock pursuant to a tender offer. We funded the transaction in
    July 2007 through existing cash and cash equivalents of
    $1,490.5 million and by obtaining a short term loan for
    $1,500.0 million. 

(d)  

The fourth quarter of 2007 includes a charge of
    $34.3 million for in-process research and development
    related to our collaboration with Neurimmune. This amount was
    offset by minority interest income of $34.3 million,
    representing the value of the underlying technology retained by
    the parent company of Neurimmune. 

(e)  

The first quarter of 2008 includes a charge of
    $25.0 million for in process research and development
    related to a milestone payment made to the former stockholders
    of Conforma pursuant to our acquisition of Conforma in 2006. 

F-62

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

27.    

New
    Accounting Pronouncements  

Effective January 1, 2008, we implemented Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standard No. 157, Fair Value
    Measurement, or SFAS 157, for our financial assets and
    liabilities that are re-measured and reported at fair value at
    each reporting period, and non-financial assets and liabilities
    that are re-measured and reported at fair value at least
    annually. In accordance with the provisions of FSP
     FAS 157-2, 
    Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157, we deferred the
    implementation of SFAS 157 as it relates to our
    non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities that are
    recognized and disclosed at fair value in the financial
    statements on a nonrecurring basis until January 1, 2009.
    We are evaluating the impact this standard will have on our
    financial statements.

On December 12, 2007,
     EITF 07-01, 
     Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the
    Development and Commercialization of Intellectual Property ,
    or
     EITF 07-01, 
    was issued. EITF-
     07-01 
    prescribes the accounting for collaborations. It requires
    certain transactions between collaborators to be recorded in the
    income statement on either a gross or net basis within expenses
    when certain characteristics exist in the collaboration
    relationship.
     EITF 07-01 
    is effective for all of our collaborations existing after
    January 1, 2009. The adoption of this standard will not
    have a material impact on our financial statements or results of
    operations.

On December 4, 2007, Statement of Financial Standard
    No. 141(R),  Business Combinations , or
    SFAS 141(R), was issued. This Standard will require an
    acquiring company to measure all assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed, including contingent considerations and all contractual
    contingencies, at fair value as of the acquisition date. In
    addition, an acquiring company is required to capitalize
    IPR D and either amortize it over the life of the product,
    or write it off if the project is abandoned or impaired. The
    Standard is effective for transactions occurring on or after
    January 1, 2009. We have not determined the effect that the
    adoption of SFAS 141(R) will have on our consolidated
    financial statements, but the effect will generally be limited
    to future acquisitions in 2009, except for certain tax treatment
    of previous acquisitions. SFAS 141(R) amended FASB
    Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes
    (SFAS 109), and FIN 48. Previously, SFAS 109 and
    FIN 48, respectively, generally required post-acquisitions
    adjustments to business combination related deferred tax asset
    valuation allowances and liabilities related to uncertain tax
    positions to be recorded as an increase or decrease to goodwill.
    SFAS 141(R) does not permit this accounting and generally
    will require any such changes to be recorded in current period
    income tax expense. Thus, after SFAS 141(R) is adopted, all
    changes to valuation allowances and liabilities related to
    uncertain tax positions established in acquisition accounting
    (whether the combination was accounted for under SFAS 141 or
    SFAS 141(R)) must be recognized in current period income
    tax expense.

On December 4, 2007, Statement of Financial Standard
    No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated
    Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 , or
    SFAS 160, was issued. This Standard changes the accounting
    for and reporting of noncontrolling or minority interests (now
    called noncontrolling interest) in consolidated financial
    statements. This Standard is effective January 1, 2009.
    When implemented, prior periods will be recast for the changes
    required by SFAS 160. The adoption of this standard will
    not have a material impact on our financial statements and
    results of operations.

On March 19, 2008, Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standard No. 161, Disclosures About Derivative Instruments
    and Hedging Activities, or SFAS 161, was issued. This
    Standard enhances the disclosure requirements for derivative
    instruments and hedging activities. This Standard is effective
    January 1, 2009. Since SFAS No. 161 requires only
    additional disclosures concerning derivatives and hedging
    activities, adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not affect
    our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

On May 5, 2008, Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
    No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting
    Principles, or SFAS 162, was issued. This Standard
    identifies the sources of accounting principles and the
    framework for selecting the principles to be used in the
    preparation of financial statements that are presented in
    conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the
    U.S. The adoption of this standard will not have a material
    impact on our financial statements or results of operations.

F-63

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To Board of Directors and Shareholders of Biogen Idec
    Inc.: 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
    the related consolidated statements of income,
    shareholders  equity and cash flows present fairly, in all
    material respects, the financial position of Biogen Idec Inc.
    and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
    results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
    three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company
    maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company s management is responsible for these financial
    statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, included in
    Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions
    on these financial statements and on the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.
    We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
    control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
    reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
    control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
    material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
    assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
    procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
    believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinions.

As discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for income tax contingencies in 2007.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

Boston, Massachusetts

February 6, 2009

F-64

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX  

A-1

Table of Contents   

A-2

Table of Contents   

A-3

Table of Contents   

Reference to  our  filings mean filings made by Biogen
    Idec Inc. and filings made by IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation
    prior to the merger with Biogen, Inc. Unless otherwise
    indicated, exhibits were previously filed with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission under Commission File Number 0-19311 and
    are incorporated herein by reference. 

*  

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

Confidential Treatment has been granted with respect to portions
    of this agreement. 

+  

Filed herewith. 

++  

Furnished herewith. 

A-4

<EX-4.4>
 2
 b73435biexv4w4.htm
 EX-4.4 AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED RIGHTS AGREEMENT BETWEEN BIOGEN IDEC AND MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC DATED AS OF JANUARY 22, 2009.

exv4w4 

Exhibit 4.4 

AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED RIGHTS AGREEMENT 

THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this   Amendment  ) is dated as
of January 22, 2009, and is made among BIOGEN IDEC INC., a Delaware corporation (f/k/a Idec
Pharmaceuticals Corporation, the   Company  ), and MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC, a New Jersey limited
liability company, as Rights Agent (f/k/a ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC, the   Rights
Agent  ), with reference to the following facts:

A. The Company and the Rights Agent entered into that certain Amended and Restated Rights
Agreement (the   Rights Agreement  ), dated as of July 26, 2001, and further amended as of June 20,
2003. Capitalized terms used without definition herein have the meanings ascribed to such terms in
the Rights Agreement.

B. Pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Company may from time to time
supplement or amend the Rights Agreement at any time prior to a Distribution Date (which has not
yet occurred);

NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Rights Agent hereby agree as follows:

1.  Final Expiration Date.  Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended to replace
the date July 26, 2011 with January 30, 2009, so that the defined term  Final Expiration Date 
shall mean January 30, 2009.

2.  Conforming Changes . The Exhibits to the Rights Agreement shall be restated to reflect
this Amendment, including all conforming changes.

3.  Effectiveness . This Amendment shall be deemed effective as of the date first set forth
above, as if executed and delivered on such date. Except as amended hereby, the Rights Agreement
shall remain in full force and effect and otherwise be unaffected hereby.

4.  Governing Law . The Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the
State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of such state applicable to contracts to be made and to be performed entirely within such
state.

5.  Counterparts . This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed
an original, and all of which together shall constitute one instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment is executed as of the date first set forth above.

THE COMPANY :

THE RIGHTS AGENT : 

BIOGEN IDEC INC.,

MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC, 

a Delaware corporation

a New Jersey limited liability company 

By: /s/ Paul J. Clancy

By: /s/ Mark Cano

Name: Paul J. Clancy

Name: Mark Cano 

Title: Chief Financial Officer

Title: Relationship Manager 

</EX-4.4>

<EX-10.19>
 3
 b73435biexv10w19.htm
 EX-10.19 AMENDMENT TO BIOGEN IDEC INC. 2008 OMNIBUS EQUITY PLAN DATED OCTOBER 13, 2008

exv10w19 

Exhibit 10.19 

BIOGEN IDEC INC. 
2008 OMNIBUS EQUITY PLAN

AMENDMENT

The Biogen Idec Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan ( the Plan ) is hereby amended as follows:

In paragraph D(1) of Section 10 ( Effect of Certain Transactions ), the words  to the extent the
Committee shall determine, in good faith, that such an adjustment is appropriate  are hereby
deleted.

In paragraph D(2) of Section 10 ( Effect of Certain Transactions ), the words  other than those
described in Section 10.D(1) above  are hereby added immediately after the words  or any other
event .

Date: October 13, 2008

</EX-10.19>

<EX-10.25>
 4
 b73435biexv10w25.htm
 EX-10.25 AMENDMENT TO BIOGEN IDEC INC. 2006 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS EQUITY PLAN DATED OCTOBER 13, 2008

exv10w25 

Exhibit 10.25 

BIOGEN IDEC INC. 
2006 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS EQUITY PLAN

AMENDMENT

The Biogen Idec Inc. 2006 Non-Employee Directors Equity Plan ( the Plan ) is hereby amended as
follows:

In paragraph (b) of Section 4 ( Stock Subject to the Plan ), the words  with respect to dividends
or distributions of cash or other non-stock property  are hereby added immediately after the words
 unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion .

Date: October 13, 2008

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.30>
 5
 b73435biexv10w30.htm
 EX-10.30 AMENDMENT TO BIOGEN IDEC INC. 2005 OMNIBUS EQUITY PLAN DATED OCTOBER 13, 2008

exv10w30 

Exhibit 10.30 

BIOGEN IDEC INC. 
2005 OMNIBUS EQUITY PLAN

AMENDMENT

The Biogen Idec Inc. 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan ( the Plan ) is hereby amended as follows:

In paragraph (d) of Section 3 ( Stock Subject to the Plan ), the words  with respect to dividends
or distributions of cash or other non-stock property  are hereby added immediately after the words
 unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion .

Date: October 13, 2008

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.34>
 6
 b73435biexv10w34.htm
 EX-10.34 AMENDMENT TO BIOGEN IDEC INC. 2003 OMNIBUS EQUITY PLAN DATED OCTOBER 13, 2008

exv10w34 

Exhibit 10.34 

BIOGEN IDEC INC. 
2003 OMNIBUS EQUITY PLAN

AMENDMENT

The Biogen Idec Inc. 2003 Omnibus Equity Plan ( the Plan ) is hereby amended as follows:

In paragraph (d) of Section 3 ( Stock Subject to the Plan ), the words  with respect to dividends
or distributions of cash or other non-stock property  are hereby added immediately after the words
 unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion .

Date: October 13, 2008

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.45>
 7
 b73435biexv10w45.htm
 EX-10.45 AMENDMENT TO BIOGEN, INC. 1985 NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN DATED OCTOBER 13, 2008

exv10w45 

Exhibit 10.45 

BIOGEN, INC. 
1985 NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN

AMENDMENT

The Biogen, Inc. 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan ( the Plan ) is hereby amended as
follows:

In the second paragraph of Section III ( Shares Subject to the Plan ), the words  after the
Committee, in its sole discretion, has interpreted the effect of  are hereby deleted and replaced
with the words  as adjusted following .

Date: October 13, 2008

</EX-10.45>

<EX-10.51>
 8
 b73435biexv10w51.htm
 EX-10.51 BIOGEN IDEC INC. EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE POLICY - U.S. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 13, 2008.

exv10w51 

Exhibit 10.51 

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

As an Executive Vice President, you are entitled to severance benefits in the event your employment
is terminated by Biogen Idec other than For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these
terms are defined in the Biogen Idec 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan).

 Benefits

Your severance benefits are comprised of (i) a lump sum payment (as calculated below), (ii) upon
completion of the appropriate forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group
medical and dental insurance plans, to the same extent permitted by COBRA and to the same extent
such insurance is then provided to regular employees of Biogen Idec, including payment by you of a
portion of the insurance premiums (i.e., the  Insurance Benefit ) and (iii) the reasonable cost of
up to nine months of executive-level outplacement services from a recognized provider of such
services, at the expense of Biogen Idec (upon receipt of appropriate documentation).

The lump sum severance payment is calculated as follows:

9   (A x 2.5)  x B = lump sum payment 

where: 
       
     A is the number of full years of service with Biogen Idec (but A x 2.5 may not exceed
12), and B is the monthly equivalent of your target annual cash compensation at the time of your
termination (i.e., one-twelfth of the sum of your then annual base salary plus target annual
bonus). 

The following are examples of how the lump sum payment and Insurance Benefit Period are
determined:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after 10 months of employment, you will
receive a lump sum payment equal to nine months of your target annual cash compensation and
continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for nine months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that
date. COBRA continuation of medical and dental benefits is available, at your own expense, for
an additional nine months after this nine-month Insurance Benefit Period. 
  If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump sum
payment equal to 21 months  9 12  of your target annual cash compensation and continue to
participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 21 months, unless you become
eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date. 

If at any time within two years following a Corporate Transaction or Corporate Change in Control
(as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, other than For Cause or for reason of
death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you
experience an Involuntary Employment Action (defined below) and as a result you terminate your
employment with Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, then, regardless of the length of
your service with Biogen Idec and the succeeding corporate entity, and in lieu of the formula set
forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 24 months of your target annual cash
compensation at the time of your termination or at the time of a Corporate Transaction or Corporate
Change in Control, whichever is higher. In addition, you will be entitled to continue participating
in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 24 months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date.
The term  Involuntary Employment Action  shall have the definition set forth in Biogen Idec s 2008
Omnibus Equity Plan, provided, however, that the term  Corporate Transaction  used in that
definition shall be deemed to mean either a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control, as the case
may be, and provided also that prior to your termination of employment you have notified the Chief
Legal Counsel or the Head of Human Resources of Biogen Idec in writing of the basis for your
Involuntary Employment Action, you have given such notice within one year of the circumstances
giving rise to your Involuntary Employment Action and Biogen Idec does not cure such circumstances
within 30 days after the date of your notice.

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

Delivery of Benefits 

Payment and provision of all the benefits provided under this arrangement are conditioned on your
execution and delivery of all necessary forms and an irrevocable general release in favor of Biogen
Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen Idec, with respect to any and all
claims relating to your employment and the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec. If you
retire or voluntarily terminate your employment with Biogen Idec, or Biogen Idec terminates your
employment For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen
Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you do not provide the requisite general release, you will not
be eligible to receive the severance benefits described above.

If all other conditions of this arrangement are met, a lump sum payment (less applicable taxes and
other mandatory deductions as required by law) will be paid to you following the termination of
your employment, no later than the first to occur of: a) 90 days following your termination of your
employment with Biogen Idec and b) March 15 of the year following the calendar year in which
termination of employment occurs, unless you are a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (i.e.,  Section 409A ). (If all preconditions to
payment, including the delivery of an irrevocable general release, are not satisfied prior to the
earlier of these two dates, payment to you may be delayed and you may incur additional tax
liabilities under Section 409A.) If you are a  specified employee , to the extent required by
Section 409A, payment will not be made to you before the date which is six months after you
 separate from service  (or, if earlier, your date of death or Disability) unless the payment
qualifies as excepted welfare benefits under Section 409A, does not constitute a  deferral of
compensation  under Section 409A or is otherwise not subject to the requirements of Section 409A.

The Insurance Benefit will continue until the earlier of (i) the date you become eligible to
participate in the medical and dental insurance plan of another employer or (ii) the date that is
 9   (A x 2.5)  months, but not more than 21 months (or 24 months in the case of a Corporate
Transaction or Change in Control), following the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec
(the  Insurance Benefit Period ). You will have the right, at your own expense, to continue your
participation in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance plans at the expiration of the
Insurance Benefit Period, pursuant to the provisions of COBRA, but only for an 18-month period that
will be deemed to have commenced at the start of your severance.

General 

Biogen Idec shall administer and shall have the discretionary authority to adopt rules for the
management and operation of this arrangement, to interpret the provisions of the arrangement and to
construe the terms of the severance arrangement in its sole discretion. The decision of Biogen
Idec, or the duly authorized delegate, is final and conclusive for all purposes.

The severance arrangement may be amended, modified, suspended or terminated by Biogen Idec at any
time; provided that the severance arrangement may not be amended or terminated without your written
consent for a period of two years following a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control.
 This arrangement is unfunded. This arrangement will benefit and bind Biogen Idec and its successors
and permitted assigns and you and your heirs, executors and legal representatives. You do not have
any right to transfer or assign your benefits under this arrangement.

This arrangement shall be construed, administered and enforced according to the laws of the State
of Delaware, except to the extent that such laws are preempted by the federal laws of the United
States of America.

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

Additional Summary Plan Description Information 

Description 

This document describes a Plan which is subject to the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). This document constitutes the Summary
Plan Description (SPD) and Plan Document. Benefit determinations are
controlled exclusively by this SPD and Plan Document. 

Name of Plan 

Severance Plan for U. S. Executive Vice Presidents 

Name and Address
of Employer 

Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 

Plan Identification
Number 

Employer IRS Identification #: 04-3002117 
Plan #: 523 

Type of Welfare
Plan 

Severance 

ERISA Plan Year
Ends 

December 31 

Type of
Administration 

The Plan is administered by the Plan Administrator 

Plan Administrator,
Name, Address,
and Telephone
Number 

Biogen Idec Inc. is the Plan Administrator and named fiduciary of the Plan, with
authority to delegate its duties. 
Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 
(617) 679-3400 

Agent for Service
of Legal Process on
the Plan 

Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142  

Funding 

This Plan is unfunded 

Appeal Procedures 

You have 180 days from your effective date of termination to file an appeal.
Requests for appeals should be sent to the address specified in the claim denial.
A decision on review will be made not later than 45 days following receipt of the
written request for review. If the Plan Administrator determines that special
circumstances require an extension of time for a decision on review, the review
period may be extended by an additional 45 days (90 days in total). The Plan
Administrator will notify you in writing if an additional 45 day extension is
needed. 

If an extension is necessary due to your failure to submit the
information necessary to decide the appeal, the notice of
extension will specifically describe the required information, and
you will be afforded at least 45 days to provide the specified
information. If you deliver the requested information within the
time specified, the 45 day extension of the appeal period will
begin after you have provided that information. If you fail to
deliver the requested information within the time specified, the
Plan Administrator may decide your appeal without that
information. 

You will have the opportunity to submit written comments,
documents, or other information in support of your appeal. You
will have access to all relevant documents as defined by
applicable U.S. Department of Labor regulations. The review of the
adverse benefit determination will take into account all new 

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

information, whether or not presented or available at the initial determination.
No deference will be afforded to the initial determination. 

The review will be conducted by the Plan Administrator and will be made by a
person different from the person who made the initial determination and such
person will not be the original decision maker s subordinate. 

A notice that your request on appeal is denied will contain the following
information: 

The specific reason(s) for the determination;

A reference to the specific Plan provision(s) on which the determination is
based;

A statement disclosing any internal rule, guidelines, protocol or similar
criterion relied on in making the adverse determination (or a statement that
such information will be provided free of charge upon request);

A statement describing your right to bring a lawsuit under Section 502(a) of
ERISA if you disagree with the decision;

The statement that you are entitled to receive upon request, and without
charge, reasonable access to or copies of all documents, records or other
information relevant to the determination; and

The statement that  You or your plan may have other voluntary alternative
dispute resolution options, such as mediation. One way to find out what
may be available is to contact your local U.S. Department of Labor Office
and your State insurance regulatory agency .

Notice of the determination may be provided in written or electronic form.
Electronic notices will be provided in a form that complies with any applicable
legal requirements. 

Unless there are special circumstances, this administrative appeal process must
be completed before you begin any legal action regarding your claim. 

Your Rights Under
ERISA 

As a participant in this Plan, you are entitled to certain rights and protections
under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). ERISA
provides that all Plan participants shall be entitled to: 

Receive Information About Your Plan and Benefits

o   Examine, without charge, at the Plan Administrator s office and at other
specified locations, all documents governing the Plan, including a copy
of the latest annual report (Form 5500 Series), if any, filed by the Plan
with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure
Room of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.

o   Obtain, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, copies of
documents governing the operation of the Plan, including copies of the
latest annual report (Form 5500 Series), if any, and updated Summary
Plan Description.

o   The Plan Administrator may make a reasonable charge for the copies.

o   Receive a summary of the Plan s annual financial report, if any. The
Plan Administrator is required by law to furnish each participant with a
copy of this summary annual report.

Prudent Actions by Plan Fiduciaries

o   In addition to creating rights for Plan participants, ERISA imposes
duties upon the people who are responsible for the operation of the
employee benefit plan. The people who operate your Plan, called
 fiduciaries  of the Plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in the
interest of you and other Plan participants and beneficiaries. No one,
including your Employer or any other person, may fire you or otherwise
discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a
benefit or exercising your rights under ERISA.

Severance Plan for U.S. Executive Vice Presidents 

Enforce Your Rights

o   If your claim for a benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you
have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents
relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all
within certain time schedules.

o   Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights.
For instance, if you request a copy of Plan documents or the latest
annual report from the Plan and do not receive them within 30 days,
you may file suit in a federal court. In such a case, the court may
require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up
to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were
not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Plan
Administrator.

o   If you have a claim for benefits that is denied or ignored, in whole or in
part, you may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen
that Plan fiduciaries misuse the Plan s money, or if you are
discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance
from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a federal
court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees.
If you are successful, the court may order the person you have sued to
pay these costs and fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay
these costs and fees, if, for example, it finds your claim is frivolous.

Assistance with Your Questions

o   If you have any questions about your Plan, you should contact the Plan
Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or about
your rights under ERISA, or if you need assistance in obtaining
documents from the Plan Administrator, you should contact the nearest
office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S.
Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division
of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security
Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain certain
publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by
calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security
Administration.

Other Rights 

The Plan Administrator, as fiduciary for the Plan, is entitled to legal and
equitable relief to enforce its right to recover any overpayments to you under
this Plan. This right of recovery is enforceable but will not exceed the benefits
paid you. You agree that the Plan Administrator has a lien over such sources of
income until any overpayments have been recovered in full. 

Discretionary Acts 

The Plan Administrator has discretionary authority to interpret the Plan and to
make benefit determinations under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may act
directly or through its employees and agents or further delegate their authority
through contracts, letters or other documentation or procedures to other
affiliates, persons or entities. 

Once you are deemed to have exhausted your appeal rights under the Plan, you
have the right to seek court review under Section 502(a) of ERISA of any
benefit determinations with which you disagree. The court will determine the
standard of review it will apply in evaluating those decisions. 

</EX-10.51>

<EX-10.52>
 9
 b73435biexv10w52.htm
 EX-10.52 BIOGEN IDEC INC. EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE POLICY - INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 13, 2008.

exv10w52 

Exhibit 10.52 

Severance
Plan for International Executive Vice Presidents 

As an
Executive Vice President, you are entitled to severance benefits in the event your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec other than For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms
are defined in the Biogen Idec 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan).

Benefits 

Your severance benefits are comprised of (i) a lump sum payment (as calculated below), (ii) upon
completion of the appropriate forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group
medical and dental insurance plans, to the same extent provided for under local statute and to the
same extent such insurance is then provided to regular employees of Biogen Idec, including payment
by you of a portion of the insurance premiums (i.e., the  Insurance Benefit ) and (iii) the
reasonable cost of up to nine months of executive-level outplacement services from a recognized
provider of such services, at the expense of Biogen Idec (upon receipt of appropriate
documentation).

The lump sum severance payment is calculated as follows:

9
  (A x 2.5)  x B = lump sum payment 

where: 
       
      A is the number of full years of service with Biogen Idec
(but A x 2.5 may not exceed 12),
and B is the monthly equivalent of your target annual cash compensation at the time of your
termination (i.e., one-twelfth of the sum of your then annual base salary plus target annual
bonus). 

The following are examples of how the lump sum payment and Insurance Benefit Period are determined:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after 10 months of employment, you will
receive a lump sum payment equal to nine months of your target annual cash compensation and, if
applicable, continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for nine
months, unless you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental
plans before that date. 

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump sum
payment equal to 21 months  9 12  of your target annual cash compensation and, if applicable,
continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and
dental plans for 21 months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that
date. 

If at any time within two years following a Corporate Transaction or Corporate Change in Control
(as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, other than For Cause or for reason of
death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you
experience an Involuntary Employment Action (defined below) and as a result you terminate your
employment with Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, then, regardless of the length of
your service with Biogen Idec and the succeeding corporate entity, and in lieu of the formula set
forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 24 months of your target annual cash
compensation at the time of your termination or at the time of a Corporate Transaction or Corporate
Change in Control, whichever is higher. If applicable, you will additionally be entitled to
continue participating in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans
for 24 months, unless you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental
plans before that date. The term  Involuntary Employment Action  shall have the definition set
forth in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan, provided, however, that the term  Corporate
Transaction  used in that definition shall be deemed to mean either a Corporate Transaction or
Change in Control, as the case may be, and provided also that prior to your termination of
employment you have notified the Chief Legal Counsel or the Head of Human Resources of Biogen Idec
in writing of the basis for your Involuntary Employment Action, you have given such notice within
one year of the circumstances giving rise to your Involuntary Employment Action and Biogen Idec
does not cure such circumstances within 30 days after the date of your notice.

Severance
Plan for International Executive Vice Presidents 

Delivery of Benefits 

Payment and provision of all the benefits provided under this arrangement are conditioned on your
execution and delivery of all necessary forms and an irrevocable general release in favor of Biogen
Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen Idec, with respect to any and all
claims relating to your employment and the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec. If you
retire or voluntarily terminate your employment with Biogen Idec, or Biogen Idec terminates your
employment For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen
Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you do not provide the requisite general release, you will not
be eligible to receive the severance benefits described above.

If all other conditions of this arrangement are met, a lump sum payment (less applicable taxes and
other mandatory deductions as required by law) will be paid to you following the termination of
your employment, no later than the first to occur of: a) 90 days following your termination of
your employment with Biogen Idec and b) March 15 of the year following the calendar year in which
termination of employment occurs.

To the extent that such benefit is applicable, the Insurance Benefit will continue until the
earlier of (i) the date you become eligible to participate in the medical and dental insurance plan
of another employer or (ii) the date that is  9   (A x
2.5)  months, but not more than 21 months (or
24 months in the case of a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control), following the termination
of your employment with Biogen Idec (the  Insurance Benefit Period ).

General 

Biogen Idec shall administer and shall have the discretionary authority to adopt rules for the
management and operation of this arrangement, to interpret the provisions of the arrangement and to
construe the terms of the severance arrangement in its sole discretion. The decision of Biogen
Idec, or the duly authorized delegate, is final and conclusive for all purposes.

The severance arrangement may be amended, modified, suspended or terminated by Biogen Idec at any
time; provided that the severance arrangement may not be amended or terminated without your written
consent for a period of two years following a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control.

This arrangement is unfunded. This arrangement will benefit and bind Biogen Idec and its
successors and permitted assigns and you and your heirs, executors and legal representatives. You
do not have any right to transfer or assign your benefits under this arrangement.

</EX-10.52>

<EX-10.53>
 10
 b73435biexv10w53.htm
 EX-10.53 BIOGEN IDEC INC. EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE POLICY - U.S. SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 13, 2008.

exv10w53 

Exhibit 10.53 

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

As a Senior Vice President, you are entitled to severance benefits in the event your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec other than For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms
are defined in the Biogen Idec 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan).

Benefits 

Your severance benefits are comprised of (i) a lump sum payment (as calculated below), (ii) upon
completion of the appropriate forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group
medical and dental insurance plans, to the same extent permitted by COBRA and to the same extent
such insurance is then provided to regular employees of Biogen Idec, including payment by you of a
portion of the insurance premiums (i.e., the  Insurance Benefit ) and (iii) the reasonable cost of
up to nine months of executive-level outplacement services from a recognized provider of such
services, at the expense of Biogen Idec (upon receipt of appropriate documentation).

The lump sum severance payment is calculated as follows:

9   (A x 2)  x B = lump sum payment 

where: 
       
      A is the number of full years of service with Biogen Idec (but A x 2 may not exceed 9),
and B is the monthly equivalent of your target annual cash compensation at the time of your
termination (i.e., one-twelfth of the sum of your then annual base salary plus target annual
bonus). 

The following are examples of how the lump sum payment and Insurance Benefit Period are determined:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after 10 months of employment, you will
receive a lump sum payment equal to nine months of your target annual cash compensation and
continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for nine months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that
date. COBRA continuation of medical and dental benefits is available, at your own expense, for
an additional nine months after this nine-month Insurance Benefit Period. 

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump sum
payment equal to 18 months  9 9  of your target annual cash compensation and continue to
participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 18 months, unless you become
eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date. 

If at any time within two years following a Corporate Transaction or Corporate Change in Control
(as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, other than For Cause or for reason of
death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you
experience an Involuntary Employment Action (defined below) and as a result you terminate your
employment with Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, then, regardless of the length of
your service with Biogen Idec and the succeeding corporate entity, and in lieu of the formula set
forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 18 months of your target annual cash
compensation at the time of your termination or at the time of a Corporate Transaction or Corporate
Change in Control, whichever is higher. In addition, you will be entitled to continue
participating in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 18 months, unless you become
eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date. The term
 Involuntary Employment Action  shall have the definition set forth in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus
Equity Plan, provided, however, that the term  Corporate Transaction  used in that definition shall
be deemed to mean either a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control,
as the case may be, and provided also that prior to your termination of employment you have
notified the Chief Legal Counsel or the Head of Human Resources of Biogen Idec in writing of the
basis for your Involuntary Employment Action, you have given such notice within one year of the
circumstances giving rise to your Involuntary Employment Action and Biogen Idec does not cure such
circumstances within 30 days after the date of your notice.

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

Delivery of Benefits 

Payment and provision of all the benefits provided under this arrangement are conditioned on your
execution and delivery of all necessary forms and an irrevocable general release in favor of Biogen
Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen Idec, with respect to any and all
claims relating to your employment and the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec. If you
retire or voluntarily terminate your employment with Biogen Idec, or Biogen Idec terminates your
employment For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen
Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you do not provide the requisite general release, you will not
be eligible to receive the severance benefits described above.

If all other conditions of this arrangement are met, a lump sum payment (less applicable taxes and
other mandatory deductions as required by law) will be paid to you following the termination of
your employment, no later than the first to occur of: a) 90 days following your termination of
your employment with Biogen Idec and b) March 15 of the year following the calendar year in which
termination of employment occurs, unless you are a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (i.e.,  Section 409A ). (If all preconditions to
payment, including the delivery of an irrevocable general release, are not satisfied prior to the
earlier of these two dates, payment to you may be delayed and you may incur additional tax
liabilities under Section 409A.) If you are a  specified employee , to the extent required by
Section 409A, payment will not be made to you before the date which is six months after you
 separate from service  (or, if earlier, your date of death or Disability) unless the payment
qualifies as excepted welfare benefits under Section 409A, does not constitute a  deferral of
compensation  under Section 409A or is otherwise not subject to the requirements of Section 409A.

The Insurance Benefit will continue until the earlier of (i) the date you become eligible to
participate in the medical and dental insurance plan of another employer or (ii) the date that is
 9   (A x 2)  months, but not more than 18 months (or 18 months in the case of a Corporate
Transaction or Change in Control), following the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec
(the  Insurance Benefit Period ). You will have the right, at your own expense, to continue your
participation in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance plans at the expiration of the
Insurance Benefit Period, pursuant to the provisions of COBRA, but only for an 18-month period that
will be deemed to have commenced at the start of your severance.

General 

Biogen Idec shall administer and shall have the discretionary authority to adopt rules for the
management and operation of this arrangement, to interpret the provisions of the arrangement and to
construe the terms of the severance arrangement in its sole discretion. The decision of Biogen
Idec, or the duly authorized delegate, is final and conclusive for all purposes.

The severance arrangement may be amended, modified, suspended or terminated by Biogen Idec at any
time; provided that the severance arrangement may not be amended or terminated without your written
consent for a period of two years following a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control.

This arrangement is unfunded. This arrangement will benefit and bind Biogen Idec and its
successors and permitted assigns and you and your heirs, executors and legal representatives. You
do not have any right to transfer or assign your benefits under this arrangement.

This arrangement shall be construed, administered and enforced according to the laws of the State
of Delaware, except to the extent that such laws are preempted by the federal laws of the United
States of America.

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

Additional Summary Plan Description Information 

Description 

This document describes a Plan which is subject to the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). This document constitutes the Summary
Plan Description (SPD) and Plan Document. Benefit determinations are
controlled exclusively by this SPD and Plan Document. 

Name of Plan 

Severance Plan for U. S. Senior Vice Presidents 

Name and Address
of Employer 

Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 

Plan Identification
Number 

Employer IRS Identification #: 04-3002117 
Plan #: 522 

Type of Welfare
Plan 

Severance 

ERISA Plan Year
Ends 

December 31 

Type of
Administration 

The Plan is administered by the Plan Administrator 

Plan Administrator,
Name, Address,
and Telephone
Number 

Biogen Idec Inc. is the Plan Administrator and named fiduciary of the Plan, with
authority to delegate its duties. 
Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 
(617) 679-3400 

Agent for Service
of Legal Process on
the Plan 

Biogen Idec Inc. 
Fourteen Cambridge Center 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 

Funding 

This Plan is unfunded 

Appeal Procedures 

You have 180 days from your effective date of termination to file an appeal.
Requests for appeals should be sent to the address specified in the claim denial.
A decision on review will be made not later than 45 days following receipt of the
written request for review. If the Plan Administrator determines that special
circumstances require an extension of time for a decision on review, the review
period may be extended by an additional 45 days (90 days in total). The Plan
Administrator will notify you in writing if an additional 45 day extension is
needed. 

If an extension is necessary due to your failure to submit the information
necessary to decide the appeal, the notice of extension will specifically describe
the required information, and you will be afforded at least 45 days to provide
the specified information. If you deliver the requested information within the
time specified, the 45 day extension of the appeal period will begin after you
have provided that information. If you fail to deliver the requested information
within the time specified, the Plan Administrator may decide your appeal
without that information. 

You will have the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, or other
information in support of your appeal. You will have access to all relevant
documents as defined by applicable U.S. Department of Labor regulations. The
review of the adverse benefit determination will take into account all new 

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

information, whether or not presented or available at the initial determination.
No deference will be afforded to the initial determination. 

The review will be conducted by the Plan Administrator and will be made by a
person different from the person who made the initial determination and such
person will not be the original decision maker s subordinate. 

A notice that your request on appeal is denied will contain the following
information: 

The specific reason(s) for the determination;

A reference to the specific Plan provision(s) on which the determination is
based;

A statement disclosing any internal rule, guidelines, protocol or similar
criterion relied on in making the adverse determination (or a statement that
such information will be provided free of charge upon request);

A statement describing your right to bring a lawsuit under Section 502(a) of
ERISA if you disagree with the decision;

The statement that you are entitled to receive upon request, and without
charge, reasonable access to or copies of all documents, records or other
information relevant to the determination; and

The statement that  You or your plan may have other voluntary alternative
dispute resolution options, such as mediation. One way to find out what
may be available is to contact your local U.S. Department of Labor Office
and your State insurance regulatory agency .

Notice of the determination may be provided in written or electronic form.
Electronic notices will be provided in a form that complies with any applicable
legal requirements. 

Unless there are special circumstances, this administrative appeal process must
be completed before you begin any legal action regarding your claim. 

Your Rights Under  
ERISA 

As a participant in this Plan, you are entitled to certain rights and protections
under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). ERISA
provides that all Plan participants shall be entitled to: 

Receive Information About Your Plan and Benefits

o   Examine, without charge, at the Plan Administrator s office and at other
specified locations, all documents governing the Plan, including a copy
of the latest annual report (Form 5500 Series), if any, filed by the Plan
with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure
Room of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.

o   Obtain, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, copies of
documents governing the operation of the Plan, including copies of the
latest annual report (Form 5500 Series), if any, and updated Summary
Plan Description.

o   The Plan Administrator may make a reasonable charge for the copies.

o   Receive a summary of the Plan s annual financial report, if any. The
Plan Administrator is required by law to furnish each participant with a
copy of this summary annual report.

Prudent Actions by Plan Fiduciaries

o   In addition to creating rights for Plan participants, ERISA imposes
duties upon the people who are responsible for the operation of the
employee benefit plan. The people who operate your Plan, called
 fiduciaries  of the Plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in the
interest of you and other Plan participants and beneficiaries. No one,
including your Employer or any other person, may fire you or otherwise
discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a
benefit or exercising your rights under ERISA.

Severance Plan for U.S. Senior Vice Presidents 

Enforce Your Rights

o   If your claim for a benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you
have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents
relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all
within certain time schedules.

o   Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights.
For instance, if you request a copy of Plan documents or the latest
annual report from the Plan and do not receive them within 30 days,
you may file suit in a federal court. In such a case, the court may
require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up
to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were
not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Plan
Administrator.

o   If you have a claim for benefits that is denied or ignored, in whole or in
part, you may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen
that Plan fiduciaries misuse the Plan s money, or if you are
discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance
from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a federal
court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees.
If you are successful, the court may order the person you have sued to
pay these costs and fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay
these costs and fees, if, for example, it finds your claim is frivolous.

Assistance with Your Questions

o   If you have any questions about your Plan, you should contact the Plan
Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or about
your rights under ERISA, or if you need assistance in obtaining
documents from the Plan Administrator, you should contact the nearest
office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S.
Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division
of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security
Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain certain
publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by
calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security
Administration.

Other Rights 

The Plan Administrator, as fiduciary for the Plan, is entitled to legal and
equitable relief to enforce its right to recover any overpayments to you under
this Plan. This right of recovery is enforceable but will not exceed the benefits
paid you. You agree that the Plan Administrator has a lien over such sources of
income until any overpayments have been recovered in full. 

Discretionary Acts 

The Plan Administrator has discretionary authority to interpret the Plan and to
make benefit determinations under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may act
directly or through its employees and agents or further delegate their authority
through contracts, letters or other documentation or procedures to other
affiliates, persons or entities. 

Once you are deemed to have exhausted your appeal rights under the Plan, you
have the right to seek court review under Section 502(a) of ERISA of any
benefit determinations with which you disagree. The court will determine the
standard of review it will apply in evaluating those decisions. 

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.54>
 11
 b73435biexv10w54.htm
 EX-10.54 BIOGEN IDEC INC. EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE POLICY - INTERNATIONAL SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 13, 2008.

exv10w54 

Exhibit 10.54 

Severance Plan for International Senior Vice Presidents 

As a Senior Vice President, you are entitled to severance benefits in the event your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec other than For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms
are defined in the Biogen Idec 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan).

Benefits 

Your severance benefits are comprised of (i) a lump sum payment (as calculated below), (ii) upon
completion of the appropriate forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group
medical and dental insurance plans, to the same extent provided for under local statute and to the
same extent such insurance is then provided to regular employees of Biogen Idec, including payment
by you of a portion of the insurance premiums (i.e., the  Insurance Benefit ) and (iii) the
reasonable cost of up to nine months of executive-level outplacement services from a recognized
provider of such services, at the expense of Biogen Idec (upon receipt of appropriate
documentation).

The lump sum severance payment is calculated as follows:

9   (A x 2)  x B = lump sum payment 

where: 
       
      A is the number of full years of service with Biogen Idec (but A x 2 may not exceed 9),
and B is the monthly equivalent of your target annual cash compensation at the time of your
termination (i.e., one-twelfth of the sum of your then annual base salary plus target annual
bonus). 

The following are examples of how the lump sum payment and Insurance Benefit Period are determined:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after 10 months of employment, you will
receive a lump sum payment equal to nine months of your target annual cash compensation and, if
applicable, continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for nine
months, unless you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental
plans before that date. 

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump sum
payment equal to 18 months  9 9  of your target annual cash compensation and, if applicable,
continue to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 18 months, unless
you become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that
date. 

If at any time within two years following a Corporate Transaction or Corporate Change in Control
(as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment is
terminated by Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, other than For Cause or for reason of
death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you
experience an Involuntary Employment Action (defined below) and as a result you terminate your
employment with Biogen Idec or the succeeding corporate entity, then, regardless of the length of
your service with Biogen Idec and the succeeding corporate entity, and in lieu of the formula set
forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 18 months of your target annual cash
compensation at the time of your termination or at the time of a Corporate Transaction or Corporate
Change in Control, whichever is higher. If applicable, you will additionally be entitled to
continue participating in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 18 months, unless you
become eligible to participate in another employer s medical and dental plans before that date.
The term  Involuntary Employment Action  shall have the definition set forth in Biogen Idec s 2008
Omnibus Equity Plan, provided, however, that the term  Corporate
Transaction  used in that definition shall be deemed to mean either a Corporate Transaction or
Change in Control, as the case may be, and provided also that prior to your termination of
employment you have notified the Chief Legal Counsel or the Head of Human Resources of Biogen Idec
in writing of the basis for your Involuntary Employment Action, you have given such notice within
one year of the circumstances giving rise to your Involuntary Employment Action and Biogen Idec
does not cure such circumstances within 30 days after the date of your notice.

Severance Plan for International Senior Vice Presidents 

Delivery of Benefits 

Payment and provision of all the benefits provided under this arrangement are conditioned on your
execution and delivery of all necessary forms and an irrevocable general release in favor of Biogen
Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen Idec, with respect to any and all
claims relating to your employment and the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec. If you
retire or voluntarily terminate your employment with Biogen Idec, or Biogen Idec terminates your
employment For Cause or for reason of death or Disability (as these terms are defined in Biogen
Idec s 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan), or you do not provide the requisite general release, you will not
be eligible to receive the severance benefits described above.

If all other conditions of this arrangement are met, a lump sum payment (less applicable taxes and
other mandatory deductions as required by law) will be paid to you following the termination of
your employment, no later than the first to occur of: a) 90 days following your termination of
your employment with Biogen Idec and b) March 15 of the year following the calendar year in which
termination of employment occurs.

To the extent that such benefit is applicable, the Insurance Benefit will continue until the
earlier of (i) the date you become eligible to participate in the medical and dental insurance plan
of another employer or (ii) the date that is  9   (A x 2)  months, but not more than 18 months (or
18 months in the case of a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control), following the termination
of your employment with Biogen Idec (the  Insurance Benefit Period ).

General 

Biogen Idec shall administer and shall have the discretionary authority to adopt rules for the
management and operation of this arrangement, to interpret the provisions of the arrangement and to
construe the terms of the severance arrangement in its sole discretion. The decision of Biogen
Idec, or the duly authorized delegate, is final and conclusive for all purposes.

The severance arrangement may be amended, modified, suspended or terminated by Biogen Idec at any
time; provided that the severance arrangement may not be amended or terminated without your written
consent for a period of two years following a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control.

This arrangement is unfunded. This arrangement will benefit and bind Biogen Idec and its
successors and permitted assigns and you and your heirs, executors and legal representatives. You
do not have any right to transfer or assign your benefits under this arrangement.

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.59>
 12
 b73435biexv10w59.htm
 EX-10.59 SECOND AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN BIOGEN IDEC AND JAMES C. MULLEN DATED AS OF DECEMBER 4, 2008

exv10w59 

Exhibit 10.59 

SECOND AMENDMENT TO 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

THIS AMENDMENT by and between BIOGEN IDEC INC. (the  Company ) and James C. Mullen (the
 Executive ), dated as of December 4, 2008.

WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company are parties to an Employment Agreement dated as of June 20,
2003, as amended effective February 7, 2006 (the  June 20, 2003 Agreement  and

WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company desire to amend the June 20, 2003 Agreement as set forth
herein.

NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:

1. 
       
     Clause (G) of Section 4(c)(ii) of the June 20, 2003 Agreement (and the text following such
clause) is hereby restated in its entirety, as follows: 

(G) a material reduction of the Annual Base Salary under Section 3(a) or a material failure
to pay benefits provided or referred to under this Agreement, unless any such action under
subclause (A) through (G) is remedied by the Company within thirty (30) days after receipt
of notice thereof given by the Executive.  

2. 
       
     The last sentence of Section 4(c)(iii) of the June 20, 2003 Agreement is hereby restated in
its entirety, as follows: 

An event shall not be deemed to constitute Good Reason if the Executive fails to deliver
Notice of Termination for Good Reason within ninety (90) days of his actual knowledge of the
event.  

3. 
       
     A new sentence is hereby added to the end of Section 5(f)(ii), as follows: 

In the event that the reduction described in the preceding sentence shall apply, such
reduction shall be effected by reducing the amount of cash severance payable to the
Executive pursuant to clause (i) of Section 5(a) by the amount provided for in the preceding
sentence.   

4. 
       
     A new Section 11 is hereby added to the June 20, 2003 Agreement as follows: 

11. 
       
     SECTION 409A COMPLIANCE 

For purposes of bringing this Agreement into compliance with, or providing an exemption from,
Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder ( Section 409A )
the Company and the Executive agree as follows:

1 

(i) Reimbursements payable to the Executive under the Agreement shall be paid to the Executive
within sixty (60) days following the date upon which the Executive becomes entitled to the
reimbursement, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which
the reimbursable expense is incurred (or, in the case of payments under Section 8, the year
following the year in which you become entitled to reimbursement). Tax gross-up payments payable to
the Executive under this Agreement shall be paid to the Executive within sixty (60) days following
the date upon which the tax resulting in the gross-up is paid, but in no event later than the end
of the calendar year following the year in which the tax resulting in the gross-up is paid. In
addition, such reimbursements and tax gross-up payments shall be made in a manner that complies
with all the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(l)(iv). In no event shall
reimbursements and payments provided under the Agreement be subject to liquidation or exchange in a
manner which violates Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(l)(iv). Reimbursements to the
Executive with respect to taxes shall be calculated based on the Executive s actual federal, state
and local tax rates, notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein.

(ii) Payments to the Executive of bonus amounts described in Section 3(b) hereof shall be made
in no event later than the last day of the  applicable 2   1  / 2  month period,  as such term is defined
in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-l(b)(4)(i)(A) in order that such amounts be treated as a
short-term deferral for purposes of Section 409A.

(iii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if the Executive is a  specified
employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code) with respect to the Company,
(1) payment to the Executive of any amounts (or benefits) otherwise payable to or in respect of the
Executive under this Agreement pursuant to the Executive s termination of employment with the
Company which are deferred compensation under Section 409A, shall be delayed for a period of six
(6) months following such termination, and shall be paid on the first business day following the
expiration of such six (6) month period and (2) any payments and benefits not required to be so
delayed shall be paid or provided in accordance with this Agreement.

(iv) For purposes of amounts under this Agreement which are subject to Section 409A, the
Executive s employment with the Company will not be treated as terminated unless and until such
termination of employment constitutes a  separation from service  for purposes of Section 409A.

5. 
       
     Except as expressly modified by the terms of this Amendment, the provisions of the June 20,
2003 Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. 

6. 
       
     This Amendment may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an
original and which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. 

This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of The Commonwealth
of Massachusetts, without reference to principles of conflicts of laws.

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive and the Company have executed this Amendment under seal, as of
the day and year first above written.

BIOGEN IDEC INC.  

By:   
     /s/ Bruce R. Ross

Name:   
     Bruce R. Ross  

Title:   
     Chairman  

By:   
                                                          /s/ James C. Mullen

James C. Mullen  

3 

</EX-10.59>

<EX-10.61>
 13
 b73435biexv10w61.htm
 EX-10.61 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN BIOGEN IDEC MANAGEMENT SERVICES GMBH AND HANS PETER HASLER DATED OCTOBER 15, 2008.

exv10w61 

Exhibit 10.61 

THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT IS MADE

BETWEEN

Biogen Idec Management Services GmbH 
c/o Baumeler Treuhand AG 
Poststrasse 18 
6300 Zug

( Biogen )

And

Hans-Peter Hasler 
Ginsterweg 5 
Kuessnacht a.R. 6403

( you )

This Agreement sets out the terms and conditions of your contract of employment with Biogen. The
provisions of this Agreement supersede and replace those contained in any document, correspondence
or communication, written or oral, exchanged between the parties prior to the signature of this
Agreement and relating to the purpose hereof.

1. EMPLOYMENT 

1.1 
       
     Biogen will employ you and you will provide management services to Biogen Idec International
GmbH and management services to Biogen Idec Inc. (Biogen Idec) as its Chief Operating Officer.
Special conditions (if any) applicable to your employment are set out in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement. 

1.2 
       
     You will be responsible for Biogen Group global commercial operations and business
development. This includes the overall direction of the sales staff, including joint
ventures, distributors, and marketing partners. It also includes responsibility for
marketing, product positioning, business analysis and competitive market intelligence. 

Furthermore, you will be responsible for customer service and support, and product
reimbursement relationships with private, public, and governmental
payors. Your responsibilities include assigned revenue goals, as well as operating margins and the
management of the expense budget, and in addition, the management and development of all
commercial employees in assigned organizations. 

1.3 
       
     You will at all times during the Employment use your entire working capacity for the benefit
and interest of the Biogen Group. You will work the hours necessary or appropriate from time
to time to carry out your duties properly and effectively. No overtime will be payable. This
does not preclude you from sitting on other company 

boards in accordance with Company policies and procedures. 

1.4 
       
     You shall report to the Chief Executive Officer of Biogen Idec. 

1.5 
       
     You will be authorised to sign for Biogen and Biogen Idec International GmbH only while you
are in Switzerland. This signatory power shall be entered in the commercial register. You
are entitled to sign for Biogen Idec and other United States companies in the Biogen Group
pursuant to the Biogen Idec signature authority policy only while you are in the United
States. 

2. EFFECTIVE DATE, TERM 

2.1 
       
     The Employment will begin on 26 June 2008. Your period of continuous employment with the
Biogen Group commenced on 1 August 2001. 

2.2 
       
     The Employment will be subject to clauses 9 and 2.3 and will continue unless or until
terminated by either party giving to the other in writing not less than one month s notice. 

2.3 
       
     Biogen shall be entitled during any notice period (whether notice has been given by Biogen or
by you) to: 

2.3.1 
       
     Require you not to attend any premises of Biogen or any Group Company 

2.3.2 
       
     Restrict your access to Biogen or any Group Company s computer system or its
or their employees, customers and suppliers for any purposes related to Biogen or any
Group Company s business and 

2.3.3 
       
     Suspend you from the performance of any duties and obligations under this
Agreement. 

3. PLACE OF WORK 

Initially, the place of activity for the performance of your duties under the present agreement
shall, but not exclusively, be in the offices of Biogen in Switzerland. The place of activity
shall not be restricted to these offices but may be at any other place, in Switzerland or
abroad, in which you exercise your functions. The Employment implies frequent travel around the
world. You will keep track of the days you work in each country and provide the tax group with a
report quarterly. You will relocate to the Biogen Group US Headquarters location before 31
December 2009 and will transfer your employment to Biogen Idec and transfer to the United States
payroll and benefits in conjunction with your relocation. If you have not relocated by 30 June
2009, you agree to provide the CEO of Biogen Idec with a written declaration that includes a
definitive and detailed plan for your relocation. If you do not provide a written declaration
by 30 June 2009 of your plan to relocate and/or fail to relocate by 31 December 2009, it will
not be deemed a breach of the Agreement; however, Biogen reserves the right to take appropriate
employment action, including but not limited to

removing you from the COO position and/or terminating the employment relationship. It is
expected that when you relocate to the Biogen Group US Headquarters location a new employment
agreement will be entered into that will supersede this Agreement and will be governed by US
law.

4. ANNUAL SALARY 

4.1 
       
     Your initial annual base salary is CHF 725,000 (less any deduction require by law) payable in
arrears in 12 equal monthly installments at the end of each calendar month. The first time
you will be eligible for consideration of a base salary increase is 1 January 2009. After 1
January 2009, the annual base salary will be reviewed annually during the Employment. Biogen
is under no obligation to increase your salary following an annual base salary review. You
will be eligible for long-term incentive grants in 2009 and in all subsequent years, pursuant
to the policies in place during each year. 

4.2 
       
     You shall not be entitled to any additional salary in respect to overtime worked. 

4.3 
       
     You may, during the Employment, be granted rights upon the terms and subject to the
conditions of the rules from time to time of certain profit sharing, share incentive, share
option, bonus or phantom option schemes operated by Biogen or any Group Company with respect
to shares in Biogen or any Group Company (the  Schemes ). You acknowledge that such
participation is discretionary and the subject matter of an entirely separate arrangement with
the grantor of such rights. With the exception of the acceleration rights outlined in the
Biogen Inc. 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan and related documents, you shall not be
entitled to any compensation for the loss of any rights or benefits under any of the Schemes
on termination of the Employment, however arising. 

4.4 
       
     During the term of this Agreement through 31 December 2009, if you continue to be a Biogen or
any Group Company employee, you will continue to receive the level of compensation enumerated
in this Agreement. 

5. EXPENSES 

Biogen will reimburse any travelling, hotel, entertainment and other out-of-pocket
expenses properly and reasonably incurred by you in connection with the discharge of your
duties of Employment and in accordance with Biogen s instructions and general guidelines
and procedures. 

6. HOLIDAYS 

6.1 
       
     You are entitled to 25 Working Days Holiday (in addition to statutory holidays), with full
salary in each calendar year. Holiday entitlement may be carried forward to a future calendar
year but such carry over may not exceed 5 days and the holiday carried over 

must be used by 31 st  March in that future calendar year. If you start or leave
your employment during a calendar year, Biogen holiday entitlement in respect of that
calendar year will be calculated on a pro rata basis. On the termination of the Employment,
you will be entitled to pay in lieu of outstanding holiday entitlement (if any) but must
repay any holiday pay received for holiday taken in excess of your actual entitlement. 

6.2 
       
     You will be entitled to the public holidays at the registered office of Biogen. However, if
you are not present at the registered office of Biogen on the date of a public holiday you
will not be entitled to take an extra day off on another date. Furthermore, should a day
which is a working day at the registered office of Biogen be a public holiday at another
location where you are effectively present at that date, then you will be entitled to a day
off which will not count as vacation. 

7. PERIODS OF ABSENCE, SICKNESS 

7.1 
       
     You shall advise Biogen promptly of any absence from work and the foreseeable duration of
such absence. 

7.2 
       
     If you are absent from work due to sickness or injury, Biogen will pay your salary in
accordance with the Swiss legislation in force at the time of absence. 

8. PENSION, INSURANCE, AND OTHER BENEFIT S

8.1 
       
     You shall be eligible during the Employment to participate in Biogen s benefit plans
including retirement, death, disability, accidental death and dismemberment coverage, business
travel insurance, and gym membership contributions from time to time in force subject to the
terms, conditions and rules of the providers of such benefits. Details of these policies can
be obtained from Biogen. Biogen may, at its absolute discretion, modify or terminate any of
these benefits at any time. 

9. SUMMARY DISMISSAL 

9.1 
       
     Biogen Group may terminate the Employment summarily without notice (but without prejudice to
its rights and remedies for any remedies for any breach of this Agreement by you) if: 

(a) 
       
     you engage in misconduct that is injurious to Biogen Group monetarily or otherwise, 

(b) 
       
     you are convicted of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction, 

(c) 
       
     you commit an act of fraud or embezzlement relating to the property of Biogen
Group, 

(d) 
       
     you violate any obligations of confidentiality or nondisclosure owed to Biogen
Group, or 

(e) 
       
     you commit any material breach of any of the terms of this Agreement or you do
not comply with Section 3 of this Agreement. 

10. RESTRAINT OF ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEE 

10.1 
       
     You agree not to engage in any other professional activity, either on your own account or on
the account of a third party, including accepting any position as director or legal
representative in a company, which is not a Group Company, except with our prior written
consent. 

10.2 
       
     You further agree to not, directly or indirectly, take an interest in any company or firm
having an activity that is in competition with or complementary to that of the Company or any
Group Company. However, such prohibition shall not apply to investments in listed companies or
investment funds, as long as your interest does not exceed 5% of the share capital or voting
rights of such companies or investment funds. You agree to comply with this covenant for the
entire term of your agreement, including during the notice period, even if we agree to waive
the notice period. 

10.3 
       
     During the term of your employment and for a period of two (2) years following the separation
of your employment with the Company, regardless of the reason for such separation, you will
neither (i) offer employment to or hire any Company employee, whether for your own benefit or
for the benefit of another person or entity (nor shall you assist any other in doing so) nor
(ii) solicit, entice or persuade any employee to leave the Company. 

11. CONFIDENTIALITY 

11.1 You are subject to obligations of loyalty and confidentiality and, accordingly, you agree in
particular to observe the utmost discretion in all matters relating to the activities of the Biogen
Idec Group and its clients and to not disclose, at any time during your employment within the
Biogen Group or at any time after its termination, for whatever cause, any information of a secret
or confidential nature relating to the business of the Company, any Group Company or its clients.
You undertake to return to the Company, upon your departure, all documents (including copies)
relating to your employment. Confidential information includes, without limitation, any financial
or technical information, reports or forecasts, databases and market-related plans, consumer,
patient or practitioner lists, business plans, projects, contacts, medical publications, medical,
pharmaceutical or chemical formulae or biological processes, or opportunities discussed

during your employment. You acknowledge that disclosure of such information would cause serious
damage to the Company.

11.2 You undertake not to offer, even after your departure, to any competitor company any
proprietary information of the Company or the Biogen Idec Group that you have obtained in the
course of your duties or through your presence within the Company.

12. COMPANY DOCUMENTS AND PROPERTY 

12.1 
       
     All property, including emails, books, papers, materials, documents and photocopies or
electronic versions, which relate to the business of Biogen or any Group Company is and shall
remain the property of Biogen or the appropriate Group Company. You must return this property
at Biogen s first request, or in any event upon suspension from work or termination of the
Employment. 

12.2 
       
     Business records of any kind, including private notes concerning Biogen s and any Group
Company s affairs and activities, shall be carefully kept and shall be used only for business
purposes. Copies or extracts of drawings, notes, calculations, statistics and the like as
well as any other business documents are only permitted for business purposes. 

13. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

13.1 
       
     In this Agreement, the   Intellectual Property Rights   means copyrights, patents, utility
models, trade marks, service marks, design rights (whether registered or unregistered),
database rights, know how, trade or business names and other similar rights or obligations
whether registrable or not in any country. 

13.2 
       
     All Intellectual Property Rights arising in the course of or as a consequence of the
employment or other work undertaken by you for Biogen or any Group Company under this
agreement shall belong to Biogen or the relevant Group Company. 

13.3 
       
     You hereby assign to Biogen by way of future assignment all copyrights or other Intellectual
Property Rights arising under clause 13.2 (and waive any equivalent moral rights) immediately
on their coming into existence. 

14. DATA PROTECTION 

14.1 
       
     In this clause, the following terms are defined as follows: 

Personal Data   means any information about you, including but not limited to your name,
address, references, bank details, salary, stock options, performance appraisals, work
skills and career achievements, vacation, other benefits, sickness, work records, 

management and organizational appraisals and data held for employment law purposes, and
shall include information about any next of kin, if appropriate, and/or other persons about
whom data may be collected. 

Processing   shall mean carrying out any operation or set of operations on Personal Data
including, but not limited to, obtaining, organizing, consulting, using, disclosing or
destroying. 

14.2 
       
     You acknowledge that Biogen, by itself or through third parties, will Process Personal Data
and that this Personal Data may be used for personnel, administration and management purposes
in connection with your employment or the administration of post-employment benefits to comply
with any obligations that Biogen or any Group Company may have regarding the retention of
employee/worker records and for any other legitimate interests of Biogen and/or Group Company. 

14.3 
       
     You further understand and agree that Personal Data may if necessary for the abovementioned
purposes, be transferred to third parties, including other Group companies, their advisors,
third parties providing products and services, such as IT systems suppliers, pension,
benefits, stock options and payroll administrators, as well as regulatory authorities
(including tax authorities), as required by law and relevant stock exchange rules. You agree
that Biogen may Process Personal Data in the country where you are employed and in other
countries, including in the U.S. You also understand that some of the countries outside the
EEA to which your Personal Data may be transferred may not offer a similar level of protection
with respect to privacy of personal data as that granted in Switzerland. 

14.4 
       
     You understand that you should contact Biogen Human Resources with any queries that you may
have about your Personal Data. 

14.5 
       
     By signing this employment agreement, you expressly consent to the Processing and transfer of
Personal Data during and after your employment. 

15. MISCELLANEOUS 

15.1 
       
     Changes and/or amendment to this agreement shall only be valid if made in writing and duly
signed by both parties hereto. The same holds true for any change or amendment of this clause
15.1. In addition, Sections 10 through 17 of this Agreement shall survive the termination of
this Agreement. 

15.2 
       
     Reference is made in this Agreement to various Company policies rules and procedures. These
are discretionary and do not create contractual rights for employees; however, any Company or
Group Company policy must be adhered to by you at all times and can be amended, replaced or
terminated at any time by Biogen without giving any reasons. 

15.3 
       
     If any term or provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal or unenforceable under any
enactment or rule of law, such term or provision or part thereof shall to that extent be
deemed not to form part of this Agreement but the enforceability of the remainder of this
Agreement shall not be affected thereby. The void and unenforceable provision shall be
replaced by the parties by a valid and enforceable provision which in its economic effect
comes closest to the replaced provision. 

15.4 
       
     Notice under these terms and conditions will be treated as having been given if sent by
ordinary first class post, by you to Biogen s registered office or by Biogen to you at your
last known address, as appropriate, and will be deemed to be given on the day when it would
ordinarily be delivered after such posting. Any notice to be given under this Agreement to
you may also be served by being handed to you personally. 

16. APPLICABLE LAW 

16.1 This Agreement and its interpretation shall be governed by the laws of Switzerland.

16.2 The courts of your Canton of residence shall have jurisdiction for the resolution of any
dispute in connection with the Employment, which cannot be settled amicably.

16.3 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent required by Section 409A
of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the applicable regulations and
guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ), if you are a  specified employee  (as defined in Section
409A), payments on account of a separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A) shall
not be made to you before the date which is six months after the date on which you separate from
service or, if earlier, your date of death; except to the extent of amounts that do not constitute
a deferral of compensation under Section 409A.

17. DEFINITIONS 

17.1 
       
     Biogen Group means Biogen and any Group Company; 

17.2 
       
       Group Company   means any of: 

(i) 
       
     Biogen; 

(ii) 
       
     Any holding company from time to time of Biogen; 

(iii) 
       
     Any direct or indirect subsidiary or parent from time to time of Biogen or any
such holding company, including Biogen Idec; 

17.3 
       
     The   Employment   means the employment established by the Agreement. 

I acknowledge receipt of a duplicate
copy for the agreement and confirm my
agreement to it.  

/s/ James Mullen

Jim Mullen, CEO and President  

Signed for and on behalf of
 
Biogen Idec Management Services GmbH

/s/ Hans Peter Hasler

Signed by Hans Peter Hasler

10/15/08

October 15, 2008 

Date

Date 

</EX-10.61>

<EX-10.63>
 14
 b73435biexv10w63.htm
 EX-10.63 FIRST AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN BIOGEN IDEC AND CECIL B. PICKETT DATED AS OF OCTOBER 28, 2008

exv10w63 

Exhibit 10.63 

FIRST AMENDMENT TO 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AMENDMENT by and between BIOGEN IDEC INC., (the  Company ), and Cecil B. Pickett (the
 Executive ), dated as of October 28, 2008.

WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company are parties to an Employment Agreement dated as of June
21, 2006 (the  June 21, 2006 Agreement  and

WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company desire to amend the June 21, 2006 Agreement as set
forth herein.

NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:

1. 
       
     Attachment D of the June 21, 2006 Agreement is hereby amended and restated in
the following manner: 

Strike the phrase in the first paragraph  which is not promptly cured after
written notice.  

Add the following language to the end of the first paragraph: 

; or (F) an Involuntary Employment Action as defined in connection with a Corporate
Transaction or Change in Control (defined in the 2008 Omnibus Plan). Prior to your
termination of employment, you must notify the Chief Legal Counsel or the Head of
Human Resources of Biogen Idec in writing of the basis you are terminating your
employment in connection with sections (A) through (F) of this paragraph. This
written notice must be given to the Company within one year of the circumstances
giving rise to you terminating your employment and Biogen Idec will have up to 30
days after the date of your notice to cure such circumstances. 

Signed:

</EX-10.63>

<EX-10.66>
 15
 b73435biexv10w66.htm
 EX-10.66 FIRST AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN BIOGEN IDEC AND CRAIG E. SCHNEIER DATED OCTOBER 8, 2008

exv10w66 

Exhibit 10.66 

FIRST AMENDMENT TO 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AMENDMENT by and between BIOGEN IDEC INC., (the  Company ), and Craig Eric Schneier,
Ph.D. (the  Executive ), dated as of September    , 2008.

WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company are parties to an Employment Agreement dated as of
October 8, 2001 (the  October 8, 2001 Agreement  and

WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company desire to amend the October 8, 2001 Agreement as set
forth herein.

NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:

1. 
       
     The following sentence is added to the first full paragraph of the October 8, 2001
Agreement 

It is a condition of your employment with the Company that Jim Mullen will be President
and Chief Executive Officer during your tenure with the Company.  

2. 
       
     The paragraph relating to  Severance Benefits  is hereby amended and restated by the
replacement in full with the following: 

- Severance Benefits: You will be eligible for severance benefits pursuant to the
U.S. Severance Plan for Executive Vice Presidents (the  Severance Plan ) on the terms
and conditions provided therein; provided, however, that you will also be eligible for
benefits thereunder in the event that you terminate your employment on account of a
material breach of the provision in this letter in that Jim Mullen is no longer
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. You will not be an employee of
Biogen during the severance period and you will not accrue any benefits or other rights
(such as, but not limited to, pension plan vesting or accrual, stock option vesting,
vacation pay, etc.) during such period except health benefits as described in the
 Severance Plan . In addition to the severance benefits described above, the unforgiven
amount of the Forgivable Loan referenced on the first page of this letter would be
forgiven based on the definition of termination as noted herein.  

Signed:

/s/ Craig Eric Schneier

Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. (Executive)

10/8/08

Date

/s/ Mike Thomas

10/7/08 

Mike Thomas (on behalf of the Company)

Date 

</EX-10.66>

<EX-21>
 16
 b73435biexv21.htm
 EX-21.1 SUBSIDIARIES

exv21 

Exhibit 21 

BIOGEN IDEC INC 

The following is a list of subsidiaries of Biogen Idec Inc. as of December 31, 2008, omitting some
subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.

STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF  

SUBSIDIARY  
       
      INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION  

Biogen Idec MA Inc.

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec Holding I Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Holding II Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Realty Corporation

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec Realty Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Corporation

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec Realty LLC

Delaware 

The Biogen Idec Foundation Inc.

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Pacific LLC

Delaware 

Biogen Idec U.S. West Corporation

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Nobel Research Center, LLC

Delaware 

Conforma Therapeutics Corporation

Delaware 

Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Canada Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec SRO, Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec (Argentina) SRL

Argentina 

Biogen Idec Australia PTY Ltd

Australia 

Biogen Idec Austria GmbH

Austria 

Biogen Idec Belgium N.V.

Belgium 

Biogen Idec Brazil Produtos Farmaceuticos LTDA

Brazil 

Biogen Idec (Czech Republic) s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) A/S

Denmark 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) Manufacturing ApS

Denmark 

Biogen Idec Holding APS

Denmark 

Biogen Idec Finland OY

Finland 

Biogen Idec France S.A.S.

France 

Biogen Idec GmbH

Germany 

Biogen Idec Biotech India Pvt. Ltd.

India 

Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd.

Ireland 

Biogen Idec Japan Ltd.

Japan 

Biogen Idec Mexico S. DE R.L. DE C.V.

Mexico 

Biogen Idec B.V.

The Netherlands 

Biogen Idec International B.V.

The Netherlands 

Biogen Idec Norway AS

Norway 

Biogen Idec NZ Ltd.

New Zealand 

Biogen Idec Portugal Sociedade Farmaceutica, Unipessoal, Lda.

Portugal 

Biogen Idec Iberia, S.L.

Spain 

Biogen Idec (Slovak Republic) s.r.o.

Slovak Republic 

Biogen Idec promet s farmacevtskimi in biotehnoloskimi proizvodi d.o.o

Slovenia 

Biogen Idec Sweden AB

Sweden 

Biogen Idec International GmbH

Switzerland 

Eidetica Biopharma GmbH

Switzerland 

Biogen Idec Ltd.

UK 

Biogen-Dompe AG

Switzerland 

Biogen-Dompe SRL

Italy 

Biotech Manufacturing CV

The Netherlands 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 17
 b73435biexv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP - AN INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1 

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We
hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the  Registration Statement on Form S-4
(No. 333-107098) and Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-97211, 333-106794, 333-47904,
333-65494, 333-110432, 333-110433, 333-128339, 333-152456, 333-128339 and 333-140817) of Biogen
Idec Inc. of our report dated February 6, 2009 relating to the financial statements and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10 K.

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Boston, Massachusetts

February 6, 2009

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 18
 b73435biexv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1  

I, James C. Mullen, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report of Biogen Idec Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   James
    C. Mullen 

James C. Mullen

Chief Executive Officer and President

Date: February 6, 2009

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 19
 b73435biexv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2  

I, Paul J. Clancy, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report of Biogen Idec Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Paul
    J. Clancy 

Paul J. Clancy

Executive Vice President, Finance and

Chief Financial Officer

Date: February 6, 2009

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 20
 b73435biexv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1  

CERTIFICATION 
    Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002 
    (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350,
    Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code)  

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350,
    chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), each of
    the undersigned officers of Biogen Idec Inc., a Delaware
    corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify, to
    such officer s knowledge, that:

The Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the
      Form 10-K ) 
    of the Company fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, and the information contained in the
     Form 10-K 
    fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
    condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: February 6, 2009

/s/   James
    C. Mullen 

James C. Mullen

Chief Executive Officer and

President

[principal executive officer]

Date: February 6, 2009

/s/   Paul
    J. Clancy  

Paul J. Clancy

Executive Vice President, Finance

and Chief Financial Officer

[principal financial officer]

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
    retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

