<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100209_10-K_edgar_data_875045_0000950123-10-010528_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6835481</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>528409</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>281379</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1309352</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1932210</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2296129</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>114</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-10-010528.hdr.sgml : 20100209
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100209172142
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-10-010528
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100209
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100209

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BIOGEN IDEC INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000875045
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				330112644
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19311
		FILM NUMBER:		10585307

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		14 CAMBRIDGE CENTER
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6176792000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		14 CAMBRIDGE CENTER
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BIOGEN IDEC INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20031112

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORP / DE
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19970530

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 SMD6JUIoC/0djx1G25jxo41wgjDS+n/1+D8xflfB1Q4TZzUKpF0vViaxKuBm+a1/
 BmFF1Pu9p+TvLOfX22UKEw==

 0000950123-10-010528.txt : 20100209

10-K
 1
 b77985e10vk.htm
 BIOGEN IDEC INC.

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file
     number: 0-19311  

Biogen Idec Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 

33-0112644 

(State or other jurisdiction
    of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or
    organization)  

Identification No.)  

14 Cambridge Center, 

02142 

Cambridge, Massachusetts 

(Zip code)  

(Address of principal executive
    offices)   

(617) 679-2000  
         (Registrant s
    telephone number, including area code) 
          Securities
    registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act:   

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, $0.0005 par value 

The Nasdaq Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such
    files):  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer   

Accelerated
    filer   

Non-accelerated filer    

Smaller reporting company   

(Do
    not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock
    held by non-affiliates of the registrant (without admitting that
    any person whose shares are not included in such calculation is
    an affiliate) computed by reference to the price at which the
    common stock was last sold as of the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    was $13,005,469,098.

As of February 5, 2010, the registrant had
    269,601,262 shares of common stock, $0.0005 par value,
    outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the definitive proxy statement for our 2010 Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into
    Part III of this report.

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. 

ANNUAL
    REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K  

For the
    Year Ended December 31, 2009 

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Overview 

1

Marketed
    Products 

2

Other Sources of
    Revenue 

4

Registrational
    Product Candidates 

5

Other Research and
    Development Programs 

7

Patents and Other
    Proprietary Rights 

8

Sales, Marketing
    and Distribution 

9

Competition 

10

Regulatory 

12

Manufacturing and
    Raw Materials 

16

Our Employees 

17

Our Executive
    Officers 

17

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

19

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

29

Item 2. 

Properties 

30

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

30

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

30

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

31

Item 6. 

Selected Consolidated Financial Data 

33

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

34

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

61

Item 8. 

Consolidated Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data 

62

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

62

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

62

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

63

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

64

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

64

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

64

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

64

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

64

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

65

Signatures 

66

Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-1

Ex-10.50 Transition Agreement, dated as of January 4, 2010    
     EX-10.52 Letter regarding employment arrangement of Robert Hamm dated April 1, 2009    
     Ex-10.58 Letter regarding employment arrangement of Susan Alexander dated December 13, 2005    
     Ex-21 Subsidiaries    
     Ex-23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    
     Ex-31.1 Section 302 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer    
     Ex-31.2 Section 302 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer    
     Ex-32.1 Section 906 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

NOTE REGARDING
    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

In addition to historical information, this report contains
    forward-looking statements that are based on our current beliefs
    and expectations. These forward-looking statements do not relate
    strictly to historical or current facts and they may be
    accompanied by such words as  anticipate, 
     believe,   estimate,   expect, 
     forecast,   intend,   may, 
     plan,   project,   target, 
     will  and other words and terms of similar meaning.
    Reference is made in particular to forward-looking statements
    regarding:

the anticipated level, mix and timing of future product sales,
    royalty revenues, milestone payments, expenses, liabilities,
    contractual obligations and amortization of intangible assets;

the growth trends for TYSABRI and our ability to improve the
    benefit-risk profile of TYSABRI;

the assumed remaining life of the core technology relating to
    AVONEX;

the markets for our products;

competitive conditions and the development, timing and impact of
    competitive products;

the incidence, timing, outcome and impact of litigation,
    proceedings related to patents and other intellectual property
    rights, tax assessments and other legal proceedings;

our effective tax rate for future periods, our ability to
    realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets and the
    treatment of our undistributed foreign earnings of our
     non-U.S. subsidiaries; 

the timing and impact of accounting standards;

the design, costs, development and timing of therapeutic areas
    and indications targeted by programs in our clinical pipeline;

the outcome and impact of healthcare reform efforts;

the timing and outcome of regulatory filings and meetings with
    regulatory authorities;

our ability to finance our operations, meet our manufacturing
    needs and source funding for such activities;

the impact that our Weston facility will have on our operating
    expenses and the timing of occupancy;

the status, intended use and financial impact of our
    manufacturing facilities;

our share repurchase programs;

the drivers for growing our business; and

our plans to expend additional funds and resources on external
    business development and research opportunities.

These forward-looking statements are based on our current
    beliefs and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties
    that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
    reflected in such forward-looking statements. Important factors
    that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations
    and could negatively impact our financial position and results
    of operations are discussed in the  Risk Factors 
    section of this report and elsewhere in this report.

Forward-looking statements, like all statements in this report,
    speak only as of the date of this report, unless another date is
    indicated. Unless required by law, we do not undertake any
    obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements,
    whether as a result of new information, future events, or
    otherwise.

NOTE REGARDING
    COMPANY AND PRODUCT REFERENCES  

Throughout this report,  Biogen Idec,   we, 
     us  and  our  refer to Biogen Idec Inc. and
    its consolidated subsidiaries,  RITUXAN  refers to
    both RITUXAN (the trade name for rituximab in the U.S., Canada
    and Japan) and MabThera (the trade name for rituximab outside
    the U.S., Canada and Japan), and  ANGIOMAX  refers to
    both ANGIOMAX (the trade name for bivalirudin in the U.S.,
    Canada and Latin America) and ANGIOX (the trade name for
    bivalirudin in Europe).

Table of Contents   

NOTE REGARDING
    TRADEMARKS  

AVONEX   ,

    RITUXAN   

    and
    ADENTRI   

    are registered trademarks, and
    FUMADERM  tm  

    is a trademark of Biogen Idec Inc. or its subsidiaries.
    TYSABRI   

    and
    TOUCH   

    are registered trademarks of Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;. The
    following are trademarks of the respective companies listed:  
    ACTEMRA     

    Chugai Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha;
    AMPYRA TM   

    Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.;
    ANGIOMAX   

    and
    ANGIOX     

    The Medicines Company;
    ARZERRA TM   

    Glaxo Group Limited;
    BETASERON   

    and
    BETAFERON     

    Bayer Schering Pharma AG;
    CAMPATH     

    Genzyme Corporation;
    CIMZIA     

    UCB Pharma, S.A.;
    COPAXONE     

    Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited;
    ENBREL     

    Immunex Corporation;
    EXTAVIA     

    Novartis AG;
    HUMIRA     

    Abbott Biotechnology Ltd.;
    ONCOVIN TM   

    Eli Lilly and Company;
    ORENCIA     

    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company;
    REBIF     

    Ares Trading S.A.;
    REMICADE     

    Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc.;
    SIMPONI TM   

    Johnson   Johnson; and
    TREANDA     

    Cephalon, Inc.

NOTE REGARDING
    REFERENCES TO THE CODIFICATION  

In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB),
    issued the FASB Accounting Standards Codification
    (Codification). Effective July 1, 2009, the Codification
    became the single source for all authoritative generally
    accepted accounting principles (GAAP), recognized by the FASB
    and is required to be applied to financial statements issued for
    interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009.
    The Codification does not change GAAP and did not impact our
    financial position or results of operations; however the
    Codification does change the way we refer to GAAP within our
    financial statements.

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

Overview  

Biogen Idec is a global biotechnology company that creates new
    standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical
    needs. Our business strategy is focused on discovering and
    developing
     first-in-class 
    or
     best-in-class 
    products that we can deliver to specialty markets globally.
    Patients worldwide benefit from Biogen Idec s significant
    products that address medical needs in the areas of neurology,
    oncology and immunology.

Marketed
    Products  

We have four therapeutic products on the market, which are
    summarized in the table below.

Additional financial information about our product revenues,
    other revenues and geographic areas in which we operate is set
    forth in our Consolidated Financial Statements and in
    Note 20,  Segment Information  to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Research
    and Development  

We devote significant resources to research and development
    programs and external business development opportunities. We
    intend to focus our research and development efforts on finding
    novel therapeutics in areas of high unmet medical need within
    our core and emergent focus areas of neurology, oncology,
    immunology, cardiopulmonary and hemophilia.

In 2009, 2008 and 2007, our research and development costs
    totaled $1,283.1 million, $1,072.1 million and
    $925.2 million, respectively. We incurred charges
    associated with acquired in-process research and development of
    $25.0 million and $84.2 million in 2008 and 2007
    respectively. No acquired in-process research and development
    charges were incurred in 2009.

CEO
    Retirement  

On January 4, 2010, we announced that James C. Mullen will
    retire as our President and Chief Executive Officer on
    June 8, 2010, and will retire from our Board of Directors
    upon the completion of his current term as a director at our
    2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. We entered into a
    transition agreement with Mr. Mullen on January 4,
    2010, which is filed as an exhibit to this report. Under the
    transition agreement, we agreed with Mr. Mullen (1) to
    continue to pay Mr. Mullen s current base salary of
    $1.2 million through June 8, 2010, (2) to pay
    Mr. Mullen a bonus for 2009 calculated as 125% of his 2009
    base salary of $1.2 million multiplied by our corporate
    multiplier for 2009 determined based on our achievement of goals
    established at the beginning of 2009, (3) to pay
    Mr. Mullen a bonus for 2010 calculated as 125% of his
    prorated base salary, (4) to vest all of
    Mr. Mullen s unvested equity awards on the date of his
    retirement, (5) to allow Mr. Mullen to exercise his
    vested stock options until June 8, 2013 or their
    expiration, whichever is earlier, and (6) that if we make a
    public announcement of a transaction that constitutes a change
    in control prior to June 8, 2010, Mr. Mullen will be
    entitled to a severance payment in the

1

Table of Contents   

amount of three times the sum of his annual base salary and
    target bonus and a related tax payment provided under his
    employment agreement upon consummation of the transaction. We
    have initiated a search for Mr. Mullen s successor.

Available
    Information  

We were formed as a California corporation in 1985 and became a
    Delaware corporation in 1997. Our principal executive offices
    are located at 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts
    02142 and our telephone number is
     (617) 679-2000. 
    Our website address is www.biogenidec.com. We make available
    free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our
    website our Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We
    include our website address in this report only as an inactive
    textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to
    our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated
    into this filing.

Marketed
    Products  

Our marketed products address the following diseases: multiple
    sclerosis (MS); non-Hodgkin s lymphoma (NHL); rheumatoid
    arthritis (RA); Crohn s disease (CD); and psoriasis. As
    part of our ongoing development efforts, we are also seeking to
    expand our marketed products into other diseases, such as
    Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) associated
    vasculitis, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and ulcerative
    colitis. The approved indications for, and ongoing development
    of, our marketed products are summarized in the table below.
    Drug development involves a high degree of risk, and the status,
    timing and scope of our clinical trials, drug approvals and
    applications for approval are subject to change. Important
    factors that could adversely affect our drug development efforts
    are discussed in the  Risk Factors  section of this
    report.

Approved or 

Development or 

Product 

Targeted Indications 

Status 

Marketing Collaborators 

AVONEX  

Relapsing MS

Approved in U.S. and numerous other countries worldwide

None

Ulcerative colitis

Phase 2

None

RITUXAN  (1)

NHL

Approved in U.S. and numerous other countries worldwide

Roche Group and its sublicensees

RA

Approved in U.S. and numerous other countries worldwide

Roche Group and its sublicensees

CLL

In U.S. registration

Roche Group and its sublicensees

ANCA-associated vasculitis

Phase 2/3

Roche Group (Our rights are limited to U.S.)

TYSABRI  (2)

Relapsing MS

Approved in U.S. and numerous other countries worldwide

Elan Pharmaceuticals

CD

Approved in U.S.

Elan Pharmaceuticals

FUMADERM  

Severe psoriasis

Approved in Germany

None

(1)  

RITUXAN is indicated for the treatment of (1)(a) relapsed or
    refractory, low-grade or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL
    as a single agent, (b) previously untreated follicular,
    CD20-positive, B-cell NHL in combination with cyclophosphamide,
    vincristine and prednisone (CVP) chemotherapy,
    (c) non-progressing (including stable disease), low-grade,
    CD20-positive, B-cell NHL, as a single agent, after first-line
    CVP chemotherapy, and (d) previously untreated diffuse
    large B-cell, CD20-positive NHL in combination with
    cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, Oncovin and prednisone or other
    anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens and
    (2) moderately- to severely-active RA, in combination with
    methotrexate, in adult patients who have inadequate response to
    one or more tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonist therapies. 

(2)  

TYSABRI is indicated for the treatment of (1) relapsing MS
    as a monotherapy and (2) moderately to severely active CD
    with evidence of inflammation with an inadequate response to or
    inability to tolerate conventional CD therapies and TNF
    inhibitors. 

2

Table of Contents   

AVONEX   

AVONEX is one of the leading therapeutic products for relapsing
    forms of MS with over 135,000 patients currently using
    AVONEX. MS is a progressive neurological disease in which the
    body loses the ability to transmit messages along nerve cells,
    leading to a loss of muscle control, paralysis and, in some
    cases, death. Patients with active relapsing MS experience an
    uneven pattern of disease progression characterized by periods
    of stability that are interrupted by
     flare-ups  of
    the disease after which the patient returns to a new baseline of
    functioning. AVONEX is a recombinant form of the interferon beta
    protein produced in the body in response to viral infection.
    AVONEX has been shown in clinical trials in relapsing MS both to
    slow the accumulation of disability and to reduce the frequency
    of  flare-ups. 

2009
    Developments  

In September 2009, we were issued a U.S. patent for the use
    of beta interferon for immunomodulation or treating a viral
    condition, viral disease, cancers or tumors. This patent, which
    expires in September 2026, covers the treatment of multiple
    sclerosis with AVONEX.

In April 2009, we announced data results from an open label,
    ten-year extension study of MS patients, known as CHAMPIONS,
    indicating that early treatment with AVONEX reduces relapse
    rates and may reduce disease progression for up to ten years.

RITUXAN   

RITUXAN is one of the most prescribed oncology therapeutics in
    the world with over 2.1 million patient exposures across
    all indications. RITUXAN is a monoclonal antibody that is used
    worldwide to treat NHL and RA. NHL is a cancer that affects
    lymphocytes, which are a type of white blood cell that help to
    fight infection. RA is a chronic disease that occurs when the
    immune system mistakenly attacks the body s joints,
    resulting in inflammation, pain and joint damage.

We collaborate with the Roche Group, through its wholly-owned
    member Genentech, Inc., on the development and commercialization
    of RITUXAN. Please read Note 17,  Collaborations  to
    our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this
    collaboration.

2009
    Developments  

In November 2009, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    (FDA) issued a complete response on applications for RITUXAN
    plus fludarabine and cyclophosphamide for the treatment of
    people with CLL, a cancer that affects white blood cells. The
    FDA has not requested any new data to complete its review of
    these applications. We and Genentech have engaged in final label
    discussions with the FDA and expect to finalize these
    discussions during the first quarter of 2010.

In October 2009, we announced that the FDA issued a complete
    response indicating that they did not believe that approval
    could be supported for RITUXAN in RA patients with an inadequate
    response to non-biological disease modifying agents.

In October 2009, data from a Phase 2/3 clinical trial of RITUXAN
    in ANCA-associated vasculitis, known as RAVE, was presented at
    the American College of Rheumatology. The trial met its primary
    endpoint of noninferiority, showing that RITUXAN is as effective
    as cyclophosphamide in treating
     ANCA-associated 
    vasculitis, a type of inflammation of the blood vessels.

In September 2009, we announced that a Phase 3 study showed that
    RITUXAN provided significant clinical benefit to patients with
    low-grade follicular lymphoma who were treated with RITUXAN as
    maintenance therapy after primary treatment with RITUXAN and
    chemotherapy.

In March 2009, we announced that a Phase 3 study of RITUXAN in
    lupus nephritis did not meet its primary endpoint.

3

Table of Contents   

TYSABRI   

We believe that TYSABRI is one of the most efficacious
    treatments for MS. TYSABRI is a monoclonal antibody
    (natalizumab) that was initially approved by the FDA in November
    2004 to treat relapsing MS. In February 2005, in consultation
    with the FDA, we and our collaborator Elan Corporation plc
    (Elan) voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial
    distribution of TYSABRI based on reports of cases of progressive
    multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients treated with
    TYSABRI in clinical studies. PML is an opportunistic viral
    infection of the brain that often leads to death or severe
    disability. In July 2006, TYSABRI was reintroduced in the U.S.,
    and introduced in the European Union, as a monotherapy treatment
    for relapsing MS. TYSABRI is also approved in the U.S. to
    treat CD, which is an inflammatory disease of the intestines.

TYSABRI is marketed under risk management or minimization plans
    as agreed to with local regulatory authorities. In the U.S.,
    TYSABRI was reintroduced with a risk minimization action plan
    known as the TOUCH Prescribing Program, a rigorous system
    intended to educate physicians and patients about the risks
    involved and to assure appropriate use of the product.

We collaborate with Elan on the development and
    commercialization of TYSABRI. Please read Note 17,
     Collaborations  to our Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a description of this collaboration.

2009
    Developments  

In November 2009, we revised the U.S. prescribing
    information for TYSABRI to reflect that the risk of developing
    PML increases with longer treatment duration, and for patients
    treated for 24 to 36 months is generally similar to the
    rates seen in clinical trials. The revised label also reflects
    that there is limited experience beyond three years of treatment.

In the fourth quarter 2009, the European Medicines Agency (EMA)
    began a review of TYSABRI to determine whether any additional
    measures were necessary to ensure the safe use of TYSABRI. In
    January 2010, the EMA recommended updating the TYSABRI label in
    the E.U. to reflect that the risk of PML increases after two
    years of therapy. The EMA also recommended that patients have
    regular MRI scans and be re-informed of the risk of PML after
    two years on therapy.

FUMADERM   

FUMADERM is the most prescribed oral systemic treatment for
    severe psoriasis in Germany. Psoriasis is a skin disease in
    which cells build up on the skin surface and form scales and red
    patches.

Other
    Sources of Revenue  

We receive royalty revenues on sales by our licensees of other
    products covered under patents that we own. We have also sold or
    exclusively licensed to third parties rights to certain products
    previously included within our product line. Royalty or supply
    agreement revenues received based upon those products are
    recorded as corporate partner revenue.

Our royalty revenues are dependent upon our licensees 
    sales of licensed products which could vary significantly due to
    competition, manufacturing difficulties and other factors that
    are outside our control. In addition, the expiration or
    invalidation of any underlying patents could reduce or eliminate
    the royalty revenues derived from such patents. Royalties on
    sales of ANGIOMAX (bivalirudin) by The Medicines Company (TMC)
    represent our most significant source of other revenue. TMC
    markets ANGIOMAX primarily in the U.S. and the European
    Union for use as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing
    percutaneous coronary intervention. Please read the subsection
    entitled  Other Revenue   Royalty Revenues 
    in the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  section of
    this report for a description of this royalty arrangement and
    factors that could adversely effect this portion of our revenues.

In 2009, 2008 and 2007, our royalty revenues totaled
    $124.4 million, $116.2 million and
    $102.1 million, respectively, and our corporate partner
    revenues totaled $5.1 million, $13.4 million and
    $6.6 million, respectively. Additional financial
    information about our product revenues, other revenues and
    geographic areas in which we operate is set forth in our
    Consolidated Financial Statements and in Note 20,
     Segment Information  to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

4

Table of Contents   

Registrational
    Product Candidates  

In addition to the ongoing development of our marketed products,
    we currently have a number of product candidates in or near
    registrational stage development. Drug development involves a
    high degree of risk, and the status, timing and scope of our
    clinical trials, drug approvals and applications for approval
    are subject to change. Important factors that could adversely
    affect our drug development efforts are discussed in the
     Risk Factors  section of this report.

BG-12   

BG-12 is an oral compound that is being tested in relapsing MS.
    During 2009, we completed patient enrollment in two Phase 3
    trials of BG-12 in relapsing MS, known as DEFINE and CONFIRM,
    with the CONFIRM trial including a glatiramer acetate (COPAXONE)
    reference comparator arm. Both studies have a two year treatment
    period with each study involving approximately 1,200 to
    1,500 patients worldwide. The FDA has granted BG-12 fast
    track status, which may result in an expedited review.

Daclizumab   

Daclizumab is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in
    relapsing MS. A Phase 2b trial of daclizumab in MS, known as
    SELECT, is currently underway. The SELECT trial has a one year
    treatment period and is expected to involve approximately
    600 patients worldwide. The SELECT trial is the first of
    two registrational trials required by regulatory authorities. We
    expect to begin patient enrollment in a Phase 3 trial of
    daclizumab in relapsing MS, known as DECIDE, during the first
    half of 2010. The DECIDE trial has a two year treatment period
    and is expected to involve approximately 1,400 patients
    worldwide. The DECIDE trial is the second registrational trial
    required by regulatory authorities.

We collaborate with Facet Biotech Corporation (Facet) on the
    development and commercialization of daclizumab. In January
    2010, we agreed with our collaborator, Facet, to assume the
    manufacture of daclizumab and began the process of transferring
    from Facet the manufacturing technology necessary for us to
    manufacture daclizumab. Any delay in completing or implementing
    such transfer could adversely affect the timing of our
    daclizumab trials. Please read Note 17,  Collaborations
     to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description
    of this collaboration.

Fampridine   

Fampridine is an oral compound that is being developed as a
    treatment to improve walking ability in people with MS. In
    December 2009, we filed for approval of fampridine in the
    European Union and Canada for this indication. Fampridine was
    approved in the U.S. on January 22, 2010 under the trade name
    AMPYRA (dalfampridine). AMPYRA is indicated to improve walking
    in patients with MS. This was demonstrated by an increase in
    walking speed. Acorda is developing and marketing AMPYRA in the
    U.S. We collaborate with Acorda on the development and
    commercialization of fampridine in markets outside the U.S.
    Please read Note 17,  Collaborations  to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this
    collaboration.

GA101   

GA101 is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in CLL.
    During the second half of 2009, we began patient enrollment in a
    Phase 3 trial of GA101 in combination with chlorambucil as
    compared to rituximab plus chlorambucil or chlorambucil alone in
    patients with previously untreated CLL. The study is designed to
    have a treatment period of approximately 6 months, with a
    minimum five year
     follow-up 
    period, and involve approximately 800 patients worldwide.

We collaborate with the Roche Group, through its wholly-owned
    member Genentech, on the development and commercialization of
    GA101. Please read Note 17,  Collaborations  to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this
    collaboration.

5

Table of Contents   

Humanized
    Anti-CD20 MAb (ocrelizumab)   

Ocrelizumab is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in RA.
    We and Genentech initiated four Phase 3 trials evaluating
    ocrelizumab in RA, known as SCRIPT, FEATURE, STAGE and FILM, and
    a Phase 2 trial known as CINEMA.

The SCRIPT study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of
    ocrelizumab, compared with placebo, in patients with active RA
    who have an inadequate response to at least one anti-TNF-alpha
    therapy. This study has a one year treatment period and involves
    approximately 800 patients worldwide.

In January 2010, we and Genentech determined that the FEATURE
    study, which evaluated a single infusion of ocrelizumab versus
    placebo (with dual infusions as an active control) in
    seropositive RA patients with an inadequate response to prior
    therapies, did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint as a
    single infusion.

In December 2009, we and Genentech announced that STAGE, which
    evaluated ocrelizumab in combination with methotrexate, met its
    primary endpoint of improving signs and symptoms (as measured by
    criteria, known as the ACR 20 response, established by the
    American College of Rheumatology) in RA patients who had an
    inadequate response to methotrexate at both 24 and 48 weeks.

In October 2009, a safety review of ocrelizumab data in RA and
    lupus nephritis (LN) clinical trials was performed revealing an
    apparent imbalance in opportunistic infections among
    ocrelizumab-treated RA and LN patients in these clinical trials.
    Based upon this review, redosing was stopped in FILM, which
    evaluated ocrelizumab given in combination with methotrexate to
    methotrexate na ve RA patients. Redosing was also stopped
    in the Asia Pacific region for the SCRIPT, FEATURE and STAGE
    studies.

The CINEMA study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of
    ocrelizumab in combination with methotrexate compared with
    infliximab plus methotrexate in patients with active RA who have
    an inadequate response to certain anti-TNF-alpha therapies. This
    study has a treatment period of approximately 6 months and
    involves approximately 300 patients.

We collaborate with the Roche Group, through its wholly-owned
    member Genentech, on the development and commercialization of
    ocrelizumab. Please read Note 17,  Collaborations  to
    our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this
    collaboration.

Lixivaptan   

Lixivaptan is an oral compound that is being tested in
    hyponatremia, an electrolyte disorder that contributes to
    negative patient outcomes in congestive heart failure and many
    other chronic diseases. Three Phase 3 trials of lixivaptan in
    hyponatremia are currently underway. These studies have a
    60 day or six month treatment period and involve
    approximately 100 to 650 patients worldwide.

We collaborate with Cardiokine Biopharma LLC on the development
    and commercialization of lixivaptan. Please read Note 17,
     Collaborations  to our Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a description of this collaboration.

Long-Acting
    rFactor IX   

Long-acting recombinant Factor IX (Factor IX) is a
    proprietary long-acting Factor IX product that is being tested
    in hemophilia B, a disorder in which blood clotting is impaired.
    In January 2010, we began patient enrollment in a Phase 2b/3
    trial of Factor IX in hemophilia B, known as
     B-LONG.  This
    study has a 14 month treatment period and will involve
    approximately 75 patients. Factor IX has received orphan
    drug designation for the treatment of hemophilia B from both the
    FDA and EMA.

We collaborate with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (Biovitrum) on
    the development and commercialization of Factor IX. Please read
    Note 17,  Collaborations  to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a description of this collaboration.

6

Table of Contents   

PEGylated
    interferon beta-1a   

PEGylated interferon beta-1a is designed to prolong the effects
    and reduce the dosing frequency of interferon beta-1a. During
    the first half of 2009, we began patient enrollment in a Phase 3
    trial of PEGylated interferon beta-1a in relapsing MS, known as
    ADVANCE. The study is designed to have a two year treatment
    period and involve approximately 1,200 patients worldwide.
    The FDA has granted PEGylated interferon beta-1a fast track
    status, which may result in an expedited review.

Former
    Registrational Programs   

Based upon the October 2009 safety review of ocrelizumab data in
    RA and LN clinical trials described above, we decided to close
    the ocrelizumab BELONG study in LN. The SCRIPT study of
    ocrelizumab in RA described above remains ongoing. We plan to
    work with regulators to determine the next step for this program.

In October 2009, after a strategic review of our Anti-CD80 MAb
    (galiximab) and Anti-CD23 MAb (lumiliximab) programs, we decided
    to stop recruitment in the lumiliximab LUCID trial in CLL and
    end the galiximab TARGET trial in NHL. Neither decision was a
    consequence of any safety concerns. We are evaluating our
    options for these programs.

In December 2009, we determined to close our ADENTRI clinical
    trial for the treatment of acute decompensated heart failure
    with renal insufficiency after reviewing preliminary results
    from the trial.

Other
    Research and Development Programs  

We intend to continue to commit significant resources to
    research and development opportunities, focusing on novel
    therapeutics in areas of high unmet medical need. Highlighted
    below are several of our development programs that currently are
    not in registrational trials. Drug development involves a high
    degree of risk, and the status, timing and scope of our
    development programs are subject to change. Important factors
    that could adversely affect our drug development efforts are
    discussed in the  Risk Factors  section of this report.

Development or 

Therapeutic Area 

Product Candidate 

Targeted Indications 

Status 

Marketing Collaborators 

Neurology

BIIB014

Parkinson s disease   early and late stage

Phase 2

Ocrelizumab

MS

Phase 2

Roche Group

Neublastin

Neuropathic pain

Phase 1

LINGO

MS

Phase 1

BART

Alzheimer s Disease

Preclinical

Neurimmune SubOne AG

Oncology

Hsp90 Inhibitor (CNF2024)

Solid tumors   gastrointestinal stromal tumors

Phase 2

GA101

NHL

Phase 2

Roche Group (Our rights are limited to U.S.)

Anti-CD80 MAb (galiximab)

NHL

Phase 2

Anti-CD23 MAb (lumiliximab)

CLL

Phase 2

Anti-IGF-1R (BIIB022)

Solid tumors   liver cancer

Phase 2

Volociximab (M200)

Non-small cell lung cancer

Phase 1

Facet Biotech Corporation

Anti-CRIPTO

Solid tumors

Phase 1

RAF Inhibitor (BIIB024)

Solid tumors

Preclinical

Anti-Fn14

Solid tumors

Preclinical

Immunology

BG-12

RA

Phase 2

Anti-TWEAK

RA

Phase 1

Anti-CD40L Fab

Systemic lupus erythematosus

Preclinical

UCB, S.A.

Anti-FcRn

Pemphigus

Preclinical

Cardiopulmonary

Lixivaptan

Congestive heart failure

Phase 2

Cardiokine Biopharma LLC

Hemophilia

Long-acting rFactor VIII

Hemophilia A

Phase 1

Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB

7

Table of Contents   

Patents
    and Other Proprietary Rights  

Patents are important to developing and protecting our
    competitive position. We regularly seek patent protection in the
    U.S. and in selected countries outside the U.S. for
    inventions originating from our research and development
    efforts. In addition, we license rights to various patents and
    patent applications, generally, in return for the payment of
    royalties to the patent owner. U.S. patents, as well as
    most foreign patents, are generally effective for 20 years
    from the date the earliest (priority) application was filed;
    however, U.S. patents that issue on applications filed
    before June 8, 1995 may be effective until
    17 years from the issue date, if that is later than the
    20 year date. In some cases, the patent term may be
    extended to recapture a portion of the term lost during FDA
    regulatory review or because of U.S. Patent and Trademark
    Office (USPTO) delays in prosecuting the application. The
    duration of foreign patents varies similarly, in accordance with
    local law.

We also rely upon unpatented confidential information to remain
    competitive. We protect such information principally through
    confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants,
    outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we
    sponsor and other advisers. In the case of our employees, these
    agreements also provide, in compliance with relevant law, that
    inventions and other intellectual property conceived by such
    employees during their employment shall be our exclusive
    property.

Our trademarks, including RITUXAN and AVONEX, are important to
    us and are generally covered by trademark applications or
    registrations in the USPTO and the patent offices of other
    countries. We also use trademarks licensed from third parties,
    such as the mark TYSABRI which we license from Elan. Trademark
    protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in
    some countries as long as the mark is used and in other
    countries as long as the mark is registered. Trademark
    registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms.

Our patent position and proprietary rights are subject to
    certain risks and uncertainties. Please read the  Risk
    Factors  section of this report for information about
    certain risks and uncertainties that may affect our patent
    position and proprietary rights.

Additional information about the patents and other proprietary
    rights covering our marketed products is set forth below.

AVONEX
    and Beta Interferon  

Our U.S. patent No. 7,588,755, granted in September
    2009, claims the use of beta interferon for immunomodulation or
    treating a viral condition, viral disease, cancers or tumors.
    This patent, which expires in September 2026, covers the
    treatment of MS with AVONEX.

We have non-exclusive rights under certain third-party patents
    and patent applications to manufacture, use and sell AVONEX,
    including patents owned by the Japanese Foundation for Cancer
    Research which expire in 2011 and 2013 in the U.S., and a
    European patent owned by Rentschler Biotechnologie GmbH and
    which expires in 2012. Additionally, third parties own pending
    U.S. patent applications related to recombinant
    interferon-beta. These applications, which fall outside of the
    GATT amendments to the U.S. patent statute, are not
    published by the USPTO and, if they mature into granted patents,
    may be entitled to a term of seventeen years from the grant
    date. There is at least one pending interference proceeding in
    the USPTO involving such third party applications, and
    additional interferences could be declared in the future. We are
    unable to predict which, if any, such applications will mature
    into patents with claims relevant to our AVONEX product.

RITUXAN
    and Anti-CD20 Antibodies   

We have several U.S. patents and patent applications, and
    numerous corresponding foreign counterparts, directed to
    anti-CD20 antibody technology, including RITUXAN. The principal
    patents with claims to RITUXAN or its uses expire in the
    U.S. between 2015 and 2018 and in the rest of the world in
    2013, subject to any available patent term extensions. In
    addition, we and our collaborator, Genentech, have filed
    numerous patent applications directed to anti-CD20 antibodies
    and their uses to treat various diseases. These pending patent
    applications have the potential of issuing as patents in the
    U.S. and in the rest of world with claims to anti-CD20
    antibody molecules for periods beyond that stated above for
    RITUXAN. In 2008, a European patent of ours claiming the
    treatment with

8

Table of Contents   

anti-CD20 antibodies of certain auto-immune indications,
    including rheumatoid arthritis, was revoked by the European
    Patent Office. We are appealing that decision.

Genentech, our collaborator on RITUXAN, has secured an exclusive
    license to five U.S. patents and counterpart U.S. and
    foreign patent applications assigned to Xoma Corporation that
    relate to chimeric antibodies against the CD20 antigen. These
    patents expire between 2007 and 2014. Genentech has granted us a
    non-exclusive sublicense to make, have made, use and sell
    RITUXAN under these patents and patent applications. We, along
    with Genentech, share the cost of any royalties due to Xoma in
    our co-promotion territory on sales of RITUXAN.

TYSABRI   

We and our collaborator, Elan, have patents and patent
    applications covering TYSABRI in the U.S. and other
    countries. These patents and patent applications cover TYSABRI
    and related manufacturing methods, as well as various methods of
    treatment using the product. In the U.S., the principal patents
    covering the product and use of the product to treat MS
    generally expire between 2015 and 2020. Additional
    U.S. patents and applications covering other indications,
    including treatment of irritable bowel disease, and methods of
    manufacturing generally expire between 2012 and 2020. In the
    rest of world, patents on the product and methods of
    manufacturing the product generally expire between 2015 and
    2020, subject to any supplemental protection (i.e., patent term
    extension) certificates that may be obtained. In the rest of
    world, patents and patent applications covering methods of
    treatment using TYSABRI generally expire between 2012 and 2020.

Sales,
    Marketing and Distribution  

We focus our sales and marketing efforts on specialist
    physicians in private practice or at major medical centers. We
    use customary pharmaceutical company practices to market our
    products and to educate physicians, such as sales
    representatives calling on individual physicians,
    advertisements, professional symposia, direct mail, selling
    initiatives, public relations and other methods. We provide
    customer service and other related programs for our products,
    such as disease and product-specific websites, insurance
    research services and order, delivery and fulfillment services.
    We have also established programs in the U.S. which provide
    qualified uninsured or underinsured patients with marketed
    products at no or reduced charge. Additional information about
    our sales, marketing and distribution efforts for our marketed
    products is set forth below.

AVONEX   

We continue to focus our marketing and sales activities on
    maximizing the potential of AVONEX in the U.S. and the rest
    of world in the face of increased competition. The principal
    markets for AVONEX are the U.S., Germany, France, and Italy. In
    the U.S., Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Japan and most
    of the major countries of the European Union, we market and sell
    AVONEX through our own sales forces and marketing groups and
    distribute AVONEX principally through wholesale distributors of
    pharmaceutical products, mail order specialty distributors or
    shipping service providers. In other countries, we sell AVONEX
    to distribution partners who are then responsible for most
    marketing and distribution activities.

RITUXAN   

In the U.S., we contribute a sales force and other resources to
    the marketing of RITUXAN, which is managed primarily by the
    Roche Group through its wholly-owned member and our collaborator
    Genentech. RITUXAN is generally sold to wholesalers, specialty
    distributors and directly to hospital pharmacies. Marketing
    efforts are focused on hematologists, medical oncologists and
    rheumatologists in private practice, at community hospitals and
    at major medical centers in the U.S. The Roche Group
    provides marketing support services for RITUXAN, including
    customer service, order entry, shipping, billing, insurance
    verification assistance, managed care sales support, medical
    information and sales training.

In the rest of world, the Roche Group and its sublicensees
    market and sell RITUXAN without our participation.

9

Table of Contents   

TYSABRI   

The principal markets for TYSABRI are the U.S., Germany, France
    and Italy.

In the U.S., we are principally responsible for marketing
    TYSABRI for MS and Elan is principally responsible for marketing
    TYSABRI for CD. We and Elan use our respective sales forces and
    marketing groups for these activities. Elan is responsible for
    TYSABRI distribution in the U.S. and uses a third party
    distributor to ship TYSABRI directly to customers.

In the rest of world, we are responsible for TYSABRI marketing
    and distribution and we use a combination of our own sales force
    and marketing group and third party service providers.

FUMADERM   

We have been marketing and distributing FUMADERM directly in
    Germany since February 2009 and previously used a third party
    service provider.

Competition  

Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
    is intense and comes from many and varied sources, including
    specialized biotechnology firms and large pharmaceutical
    companies. Many of our competitors are working to develop
    products similar to those we are developing or already market
    and have considerable experience in undertaking clinical trials
    and in obtaining regulatory approval to market pharmaceutical
    products. Certain of these companies have substantially greater
    financial, marketing, research and development and human
    resources than we do.

We believe that competition and leadership in the industry will
    be based on managerial and technological superiority and
    establishing patent and other proprietary positions through
    research and development. The achievement of a leadership
    position also depends largely upon our ability to identify and
    exploit commercially the products resulting from research and
    the availability of adequate financial resources to fund
    facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing,
    manufacturing and marketing. Another key aspect of remaining
    competitive within the industry is recruiting and retaining
    qualified scientists and technicians. We believe that we have
    been successful in attracting skilled and experienced scientific
    personnel.

Competition among products approved for sale may be based, among
    other things, on patent position, product efficacy, safety,
    convenience, reliability, availability and price. In addition,
    early entry of a new pharmaceutical product into the market may
    have important advantages in gaining product acceptance and
    market share. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can
    develop products, complete the testing and approval process and
    supply commercial quantities of products will have an important
    impact on our competitive position.

We may face increased competitive pressures as a result of the
    emergence of biosimilars. Most of our marketed products,
    including AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, are licensed under the
    Public Health Service Act as biological products. Unlike small
    molecule drugs, which are subject to the generic drug provisions
    (Hatch-Waxman Act) of the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
    Act, currently there is no process in the U.S. for the
    submission or approval of biological products based upon
    abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to another
    approved product. There is public dialogue at the FDA and in the
    Congress, however, regarding the scientific and statutory basis
    upon which such products, known as biosimilars or follow-on
    biologics, could be approved and marketed in the U.S. We
    cannot be certain when, or if, Congress will create a statutory
    pathway for the approval of biosimilars. In the European Union,
    the EMA has issued guidelines for approving of biological
    products through an abbreviated pathway, and several biosimilars
    have been approved. If a biosimilar version of one of our
    products were approved, it could reduce our sales of that
    product.

Additional information about the competition that our marketed
    products face is set forth below.

10

Table of Contents   

AVONEX
    AND TYSABRI   

AVONEX and TYSABRI both compete primarily with three other
    products:

BETASERON (interferon-beta-1b), which is marketed by Bayer
    HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the U.S. pharmaceuticals
    affiliate of Bayer Schering Pharma AG, in the U.S. and is
    marketed under the name BETAFERON by Bayer Schering Pharma AG in
    the European Union. BETASERON and BETAFERON together generated
    worldwide revenues of approximately $1.7 billion in 2008.
    EXTAVIA, a branded version of interferon beta-1b marketed by
    Novartis AG, is sold in the European Union and was launched in
    the U.S. in October 2009.

COPAXONE (glatiramer acetate), which is marketed by Teva
    Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. in the U.S. and copromoted
    by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries and Sanofi-Aventis in Europe.
    COPAXONE generated worldwide revenues of approximately
    $2.3 billion in 2008.

REBIF (interferon-beta-1a), which is co-promoted by EMD Serono,
    a subsidiary of Merck Serono, and Pfizer Inc. in the
    U.S. and is marketed by Merck Serono in the European Union.
    REBIF generated worldwide revenues of approximately
    $2.0 billion in 2008.

Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop
    products to treat MS that may in the future compete with AVONEX
    and TYSABRI. For example, an oral formulation of cladribine
    (developed by Merck Serono) was filed with the EMA and is the
    subject of discussions with the FDA regarding a refiling for
    approval as therapy for MS and FTY720 (fingolimod) (developed by
    Novartis AG) has been filed with the EMA and FDA for approval as
    an oral therapy for MS. In addition, alemtuzumab (developed by
    Genzyme Corporation) and laquinimod (developed by Teva
    Pharmaceutical Industries) are in late-stage development for the
    treatment of MS.

AVONEX and TYSABRI also face competition from off-label uses of
    drugs approved for other indications.

RITUXAN
    IN ONCOLOGY   

RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in
    the oncology market, including:

CAMPATH (marketed by Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals), which is
    indicated for B-cell CLL (an unapproved and unpromoted use of
    RITUXAN).

TREANDA (marketed by Cephalon) and ARZERRA (marketed by GenMab
    in collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline), which is indicated for
    refractory CLL patients to both alemtuzumab and fludarabine (an
    unapproved and unpromoted use of RITUXAN).

We are also aware of other anti-CD20 molecules in development
    that, if successfully developed and registered, may compete with
    RITUXAN in the oncology market.

RITUXAN
    IN RA   

RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in
    the RA market, including:

traditional therapies for RA, including disease-modifying
    anti-rheumatic drugs such as steroids, methotrexate and
    cyclosporine, and pain relievers such as acetaminophen.

TNF inhibitors, such as REMICADE (infliximab) and SIMPONI
    (golimumab) (marketed by Johnson   Johnson), HUMIRA
    (adalimumab) (marketed by Abbott Laboratories), ENBREL
    (etanercept) (marketed by Amgen, Inc. and Pfizer) and CIMZIA
    (certolizumab pegol) (marketed by UCB, S.A.).

ORENCIA (abatacept) (marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company).

ACTEMRA (tocilizumab) (marketed by the Roche Group).

We are also aware of other products in development that, if
    successfully developed and registered, may compete with RITUXAN
    in the RA market.

11

Table of Contents   

FUMADERM   

FUMADERM competes with several different types of therapies in
    the psoriasis market within Germany, including oral systemics
    such as methotrexate and cyclosporine.

Regulatory  

Our current and contemplated activities and the products and
    processes that will result from such activities are subject to
    substantial government regulation.

Regulation
    of Pharmaceuticals   

Before new pharmaceutical products may be sold in the
    U.S. and other countries, clinical trials of the products
    must be conducted and the results submitted to appropriate
    regulatory agencies for approval. Clinical trial programs must
    establish efficacy, determine an appropriate dose and regimen,
    and define the conditions for safe use. This is a high-risk
    process that requires stepwise clinical studies in which the
    candidate product must successfully meet predetermined
    endpoints. In the U.S., the results of the preclinical and
    clinical testing of a product are then submitted to the FDA in
    the form of a Biologics License Application (BLA) or a New Drug
    Application (NDA). In response to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may
    grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny
    the application if it determines the application does not
    provide an adequate basis for approval. Similar submissions are
    required by authorities in other jurisdictions who independently
    assess the product and may reach the same or different
    conclusions. Our initial focus for obtaining marketing approval
    outside the U.S. is typically the European Union. There are
    currently three potential tracks for marketing approval in E.U.
    countries: mutual recognition, decentralized procedures, and
    centralized procedures. These review mechanisms may ultimately
    lead to approval in all countries within the European Union, but
    each method grants all participating countries some
    decision-making authority in product approval.

The receipt of regulatory approval often takes a number of
    years, involves the expenditure of substantial resources and
    depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the
    disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments
    and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. On
    occasion, regulatory authorities may require larger or
    additional studies, leading to unanticipated delay or expense.
    Even after initial FDA approval or approvals from other
    regulatory agencies have been obtained, further clinical trials
    may be required to provide additional data on safety and
    effectiveness. Additional trials are required to gain clearance
    for the use of a product as a treatment for indications other
    than those initially approved. Furthermore, the FDA and other
    regulatory agencies require companies to disclose clinical trial
    results. Failure to disclose such results within applicable time
    periods could result in penalties, including civil monetary
    penalties.

In the U.S., the FDA may grant  accelerated approval 
    status to products that treat serious or life-threatening
    illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefits to
    patients over existing treatments. Under this pathway, the FDA
    may approve a product based on surrogate endpoints, or clinical
    endpoints other than survival or irreversible morbidity, or when
    the product is shown to be effective but can be safely used only
    if access to or distribution of the product is restricted. When
    approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints
    other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required
    to conduct additional clinical studies to verify and describe
    clinical benefit. When accelerated approval requires restricted
    use or distribution, the sponsor may be required to establish
    rigorous systems to assure use of the product under safe
    conditions. These systems are usually referred to as Risk
    Minimization Action Plans (RiskMAPs) or Risk Evaluation and
    Mitigation Strategies (REMS). In addition, for all products
    approved under accelerated approval, sponsors must submit all
    copies of its promotional materials, including advertisements,
    to the FDA at least thirty days prior to their initial
    dissemination. Accelerated approval status does not ensure that
    FDA will ultimately approve the product. The FDA may also
    withdraw approval under accelerated approval after a hearing if,
    for instance, post-marketing studies fail to verify any clinical
    benefit or it becomes clear that restrictions on the
    distribution of the product are inadequate to ensure its safe
    use. TYSABRI was approved in MS under the accelerated approval
    pathway and, after efficacy was confirmed, was approved under a
    stringent restricted distribution program. TYSABRI was also
    approved for Crohn s disease under a similar restricted
    distribution program. We cannot be certain that the FDA will
    approve any products for their proposed indications whether
    under accelerated approval or another pathway.

12

Table of Contents   

If the FDA or other regulatory agency approves a product or new
    indication, the agency may require us to conduct additional
    post-marketing studies. If we fail to conduct the required
    studies or otherwise fail to comply with the conditions of
    accelerated approval, the agency may withdraw its approval. In
    addition, the FDA and EMA can impose financial penalties for
    failing to comply with certain post-marketing commitments,
    including RiskMAPs and REMS.

Regulatory authorities track information on side effects and
    adverse events reported during clinical studies and after
    marketing approval. Non-compliance with FDA safety reporting
    requirements may result in civil or criminal penalties. Side
    effects or adverse events that are reported during clinical
    trials can delay, impede, or prevent marketing approval. The FDA
    may conduct post-marketing safety surveillance and may require
    additional post-approval studies or clinical trials. These
    requirements may affect our ability to maintain marketing
    approval of our products or require us to make significant
    expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. In addition,
    adverse events that are reported after marketing approval can
    result in changes to the product s labeling, additional
    limitations being placed on the product s use and,
    potentially, withdrawal or suspension of the product from the
    market.

If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such
    as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing
    changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain
    ingredients or components, regulatory authorities, including the
    FDA and EMA, will need to review and approve such changes in
    advance.

In addition, the FDA regulates all advertising and promotion
    activities for products under its jurisdiction both before and
    after approval. A company can make only those claims relating to
    safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. However,
    physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that
    are not described in the drug s labeling. Such off-label
    uses are common across medical specialties, and often reflect a
    physician s belief that the off-label use is the best
    treatment for patients. The FDA does not regulate the behavior
    of physicians in their choice of treatments, but the FDA
    regulations do impose stringent restrictions on
    manufacturers  communications regarding off-label uses.
    Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a
    company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA,
    corrective advertising, and the full range of civil and criminal
    penalties available to the FDA.

Good
    Manufacturing Practices  

The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies regulate and
    inspect equipment, facilities, and processes used in the
    manufacturing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to
    approving a product. If, after receiving clearance from
    regulatory agencies, a company makes a material change in
    manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional
    regulatory review and approval may be required. We also must
    adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices and
    product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA following
    product approval. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies
    also conduct periodic visits to re-inspect equipment,
    facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a
    product. If, as a result of these inspections, it is determined
    that our equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with
    applicable regulations and conditions of product approval,
    regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or administrative
    sanctions or remedies against us, including the suspension of
    our manufacturing operations.

Good
    Clinical Practices  

The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies promulgate
    regulations and standards, commonly referred to as current Good
    Clinical Practices (cGCP), for designing, conducting,
    monitoring, auditing and reporting the results of clinical
    trials to ensure that the data and results are accurate and that
    the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA, the
    EMA and other regulatory agencies enforce cGCP through periodic
    inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial
    sites. If our study sites fail to comply with applicable cGCP,
    the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed
    unreliable and relevant regulatory agencies may require us to
    perform additional clinical trials before approving our
    marketing applications.

13

Table of Contents   

Orphan
    Drug Act  

Under the U.S. Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan
    drug designation to drugs intended to treat a  rare disease
    or condition,  which generally is a disease or condition
    that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. If
    a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently
    receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it
    has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan
    exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other
    applications to market the same drug for the same indication for
    a period of seven years following marketing approval, except in
    certain very limited circumstances, such as if the later product
    is shown to be clinically superior to the orphan product.
    Legislation similar to the U.S. Orphan Drug Act has been
    enacted in other countries, including within the European Union.

Regulation Pertaining
    to Sales, Marketing and Product Pricing   

In the U.S., the federal government regularly considers
    reforming health care coverage and costs. For example, reforms
    to Medicare have reduced the reimbursement rates for many of our
    products. Effective January 1, 2005, Medicare pays
    physicians and suppliers that furnish our products under a
    payment methodology using average sales price (ASP) information.
    Manufacturers, including us, are required to provide ASP
    information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on
    a quarterly basis. The manufacturer-submitted information is
    used to compute Medicare payment rates, which are set at ASP
    plus 6 percent and updated quarterly. There is a mechanism
    for comparison of such payment rates to widely available market
    prices, which could cause further decreases in Medicare payment
    rates, although this mechanism has yet to be utilized. Effective
    January 1, 2006, Medicare began to use the same payment
    methodology to determine Medicare rates paid for products
    furnished by hospital outpatient departments. As of
    January 1, 2010, the reimbursement rate in the hospital
    outpatient setting is ASP plus 4 percent. If a manufacturer
    is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of
    ASP, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties of up to
    $10,000 for each misrepresentation and for each day in which the
    misrepresentation was applied.

Another payment reform is the addition of an expanded
    prescription drug benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries known
    as Medicare Part D. This is a voluntary benefit that is
    provided through private plans under contractual arrangements
    with the federal government. Like pharmaceutical coverage
    through private health insurance, Part D plans establish
    formularies that govern the drugs and biologicals that will be
    offered and the out- of-pocket obligations for such products. In
    addition, plans negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers and
    pass on some of those savings to Medicare beneficiaries.

In the U.S., Congress has considered legislation to reform the
    healthcare system that likely would have an adverse impact on
    our revenues, by, among other things, increasing the current
    Medicaid rebate, adding a subsidy for certain
     out-of-pocket 
    patient costs under Medicare Part D, and assessing a
    pharmaceutical manufacturer fee. In addition, the passage in the
    U.S. of legislation defining a pathway for biosimilar
    products likely would have an adverse impact on our revenues.

Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or
    future legislation may have a significant effect on our
    business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products may
    depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the
    costs of our products and related treatments will be available
    in the U.S. and worldwide from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists as to the
    reimbursement status of newly approved health care products by
    third party payors.

We also participate in the Medicaid rebate program. Under the
    Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of
    product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for
    each product is set by law as the larger of 15.1% of average
    manufacturer price (AMP) or the difference between AMP and the
    best price available from us to any commercial or
    non-governmental customer. The rebate amount must be adjusted
    upward where the AMP for a product s first full quarter of
    sales, when adjusted for increases in the Consumer Price
    Index   Urban exceeds the AMP for the current quarter
    with the upward adjustment equal to the excess amount. The
    rebate amount is required to be recomputed each quarter based on
    our report of current AMP and best price for each of our
    products to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The
    terms of our participation in the program imposes a requirement
    for us to report revisions to AMP or best price within a period
    not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data was
    originally due. Any such revisions could have the impact of
    increasing or decreasing our rebate liability for

14

Table of Contents   

prior quarters, depending on the direction of the revision. In
    addition, if we were found to have knowingly submitted false
    information to the government, the statute provides for civil
    monetary penalties in the amount not to exceed $100,000 per item
    of false information in addition to other penalties available to
    the government.

The availability of federal funds to pay for our products under
    the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we
    extend discounts to a variety of community health clinics and
    other entities that receive health services grants from the
    Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a
    disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries.

We also make our products available for purchase by authorized
    users of the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) of the General
    Services Administration pursuant to our FSS contract with the
    Department of Veterans Affairs. Under the Veterans Health Care
    Act of 1992 (VHC Act) we are required to offer deeply discounted
    FSS contract pricing to four federal agencies   the
    Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, the
    Coast Guard and the Public Health Service (including the Indian
    Health Service)   for federal funding to be made
    available for reimbursement of any of our products under the
    Medicaid program and for our products to be eligible to be
    purchased by those four federal agencies and certain federal
    grantees. FSS pricing to those four federal agencies must be
    equal to or less than the  Federal Ceiling Price, 
    which is discounted, at a minimum, 24% from the Non-Federal
    Average Manufacturer Price for the prior fiscal year. In
    addition, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false
    information to the government, the VHC Act provides for civil
    monetary penalties of up to $100,000 per false item of
    information in addition to other penalties available to the
    government. Under the 2008 National Defense Authorization Act,
    we are required to treat the TRICARE retail pharmacy program,
    which reimburses military personnel for drug purchases from
    retail pharmacies, as an element of the Department of Defense
    for purposes of the procurement of drugs by federal agencies to
    ensure that the pharmaceuticals paid for by the Department of
    Defense under the TRICARE retail pharmacy program are subject to
    the pricing standards of the VHC Act.

We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining
    to health care  fraud and abuse,  including
    anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws
    make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit,
    offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to
    induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or
    prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the
    statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of
    regulations and very few court decisions addressing industry
    practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged
    under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit
    anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be
    presented for payment to third party payors (including Medicare
    and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are
    false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided
    as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or
    services. In addition, several states require that companies
    implement compliance programs or comply with industry ethics
    codes, adopt spending limits, and report to state governments
    any gifts, compensation, and other remuneration provided to
    physicians. Federal legislation, the Physician Payments Sunshine
    Act of 2009, also has been proposed that would require
    disclosure to the federal government of payments to physicians.
    Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our
    products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations
    of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions,
    including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the
    possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs
    (including Medicare and Medicaid). In addition, private
    individuals may bring similar actions.

Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons
    discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the
    increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement
    authorities. Further, there are an increasing number of state
    laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on
    pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
    ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws.
    Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our
    reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of
    the pertinent state authorities.

Other
    Regulations   

Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act  

We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act (FCPA), which prohibits corporations and individuals from
    paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything
    of value to any foreign government

15

Table of Contents   

official, government staff member, political party, or political
    candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to
    otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity.
    The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books
    and records that accurately and fairly reflect their
    transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of
    internal accounting controls.

NIH
    Guidelines  

We conduct relevant research at all of our research facilities
    in the U.S. in compliance with the current
    U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Research
    Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules (NIH Guidelines) and all
    other applicable federal and state regulations. By local
    ordinance, we are required to, among other things, comply with
    the NIH Guidelines in relation to our facilities in Cambridge,
    Massachusetts, San Diego, California, and Research Triangle
    Park, North Carolina and are required to operate pursuant to
    certain permits.

Other
    Laws  

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be
    subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws,
    regulations and recommendations relating to safe working
    conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of
    animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export
    and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous
    substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious
    disease agents, used in connection with our research work are or
    may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered
    into by us involving exclusive license rights may be subject to
    national or supranational antitrust regulatory control, the
    effect of which cannot be predicted. The extent of government
    regulation, which might result from future legislation or
    administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted.

Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials  

We are focused on the manufacture of biologics. The chart below
    outlines the location of our primary manufacturing locations and
    products manufactured therein.

Research 

Triangle 

Product 

Park, NC 

Cambridge, MA 

Third Party 

AVONEX  

TYSABRI  

FUMADERM  

CLINICAL PRODUCTS  

In April 2009, the FDA approved our high titer process for the
    production of TYSABRI. Similar approval was obtained from the
    EMA in December 2008. The new, higher-yield process is being
    used to manufacture TYSABRI at our plant in Research Triangle
    Park, NC.

The Roche Group, through its wholly-owned member Genentech, is
    responsible for all worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk
    RITUXAN and has sourced the manufacturing of certain bulk
    RITUXAN requirements to an independent third party.

We are in the final stages of constructing a large-scale
    biologics manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark which
    is intended to manufacture large molecule products. The first
    phase is complete, which included construction of a labeling and
    packaging facility, administrative building and laboratory
    facility, installation of major equipment, and partial
    completion of a bulk manufacturing facility. The second phase of
    the project, which we began in January 2007, involves the
    completion and fit out of the bulk manufacturing facility and
    construction of a warehouse. The large scale manufacturing
    facility is scheduled to be ready for commercial production in
    late 2011. Recent manufacturing improvements have resulted in
    favorable production yields on TYSABRI, that have reduced our
    expected capacity requirements. As a result, we are evaluating
    several alternatives, including whether to delay completion of
    the facility.

We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw

16

Table of Contents   

materials and supplies required for the production of AVONEX,
    TYSABRI and FUMADERM are available from various suppliers in
    quantities adequate to meet our needs. However, due to the
    unique nature of the production of our products, we do have
    single source providers of several raw materials. We make
    efforts to qualify new vendors and to develop contingency plans
    so that production is not impacted by short-term issues
    associated with single source providers. Each of our third party
    service providers, suppliers and manufacturers is subject to
    continuing inspection by the FDA or comparable agencies in other
    jurisdictions. Any delay, interruption or other issues that
    arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of
    our products, including as a result of a failure of our
    facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to
    pass any regulatory agency inspection, could significantly
    impair our ability to sell our products.

Important factors that could adversely affect our manufacturing
    operations are discussed in the  Risk Factors  section
    of this report.

Our
    Employees  

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    4,750 employees.

Our
    Executive Officers  

The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages as
    of February 9, 2010 and their principal positions.

Name 

Age 

Position 

James C. Mullen

51

Chief Executive Officer and President

Susan H. Alexander

53

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Paul J. Clancy

48

Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Robert A. Hamm

58

Chief Operating Officer

Michael Lytton

52

Executive Vice President, Corporate and Business Development

Michael F. MacLean

44

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. 

62

Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications

Reference to  our  or  us  in the following
    descriptions include Biogen Idec and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation, and references to the merger mean the merger of
    Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in November
    2003.

James C. Mullen  is our Chief Executive Officer and
    President and is a director, and has served in these positions
    since the merger. Mr. Mullen was formerly Chairman of the
    Board and Chief Executive Officer of Biogen, Inc. He was named
    Chairman of the Board of Directors of Biogen, Inc. in July 2002,
    after being named Chief Executive Officer and President of
    Biogen, Inc. in June 2000. Mr. Mullen joined Biogen, Inc.
    in 1989 as Director, Facilities and Engineering. He was named
    Biogen, Inc. s Vice President, Operations in 1992. From
    1996 to 1999, Mr. Mullen served as Vice President,
    International, with responsibility for building all Biogen, Inc.
    operations outside North America. From 1984 to 1988,
    Mr. Mullen held various positions at SmithKline Beckman
    Corporation (now GlaxoSmithKline plc). Mr. Mullen is a
    member of the board of directors and executive committee of the
    Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) and is a former
    chairman of the board of BIO. Mr. Mullen has been a
    director of PerkinElmer, Inc. since 2004. Mr. Mullen will
    retire as Chief Executive Officer and President on June 8,
    2010 and will retire as a director at our 2010 Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders.

Susan H. Alexander  is our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation since
    September 2003. From June 2001 to September 2003,
    Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel of IONA
    Technologies. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander

17

Table of Contents   

served as Counsel at Cabot Corporation from January 1995 to May
    2001. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner at the law
    firms of Hinckley, Allen   Snyder and Fine  
    Ambrogne.

Paul J. Clancy  is our Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer and has served in that position
    since August 2007. Mr. Clancy joined Biogen Idec in 2001,
    and has held several senior executive positions, including Vice
    President of Business Planning, Portfolio Management and
    U.S. Marketing, and Senior Vice President of Finance with
    responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax, Investor
    Relations and Business Planning groups. Prior to joining Biogen
    Idec, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, serving in a range of
    financial and general management positions. He holds a B.S. in
    finance from Babson College and a M.B.A. from Columbia
    University.

Robert A. Hamm  is our Chief Operating Officer and has
    served in that position since March 2009. Previously,
    Mr. Hamm served as Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical
    Operations   Technology from October 2007 to March
    2009; Senior Vice President, Neurology Strategic Business Unit
    from January 2006 to October 2007; Senior Vice President,
    Immunology Business Unit from the merger until January 2006; and
    in the same capacity with Biogen, Inc. from November 2002 to
    November 2003. Before that, he served as Senior Vice
    President   Europe, Africa, Canada and Middle East
    from October 2001 to November 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Hamm
    served as Vice President   Sales and Marketing of
    Biogen, Inc. from October 2000 to October 2001. Mr. Hamm
    previously served as Vice President   Manufacturing
    from June 1999 to October 2000, Director, Northern Europe and
    Distributors from November 1996 until June 1999 and Associate
    Director, Logistics from April 1994 until November 1996. From
    1987 until April 1994, Mr. Hamm held a variety of
    management positions at Syntex Laboratories Corporation,
    including Director of Operations and New Product Planning, and
    Manager of Materials, Logistics and Contract Manufacturing.
    Mr. Hamm has been a member of the board of managers of
    Progenitor Cell Therapy, LLC. since 2006 and was a director of
    Inhibitex, Inc. from 2005 to 2009.

Michael Lytton  is our Executive Vice President, Corporate
    and Business Development, and has served in that position since
    February 2009. From 2001 to January 2009, he was a General
    Partner at Oxford Bioscience Partners, a venture capital firm.
    Prior to that, he was partner, chairman of the Technology Group
    and a member of the Executive Committee of the law firm Edwards,
    Angell, Palmer   Dodge LLP. Prior to that,
    Mr. Lytton was a junior partner and co-chairman of the
    Biotechnology Practice of the law firm WilmerHale.
    Mr. Lytton was a member of the supervisory board of GPC
    Biotech AG from 2001 to 2009.

Michael F. MacLean  is our Senior Vice President and Chief
    Accounting Officer and has served in that position since
    December 2006. Mr. MacLean joined us in October 2006 as
    Senior Vice President. Prior to joining us, Mr. MacLean was
    a managing director of Huron Consulting, where he provided
    support regarding financial reporting to management and boards
    of directors of Fortune 500 companies. From June 2002 to
    October 2005, Mr. MacLean was a partner at KPMG and he was
    a partner of Arthur Andersen LLP from September 1999 to May 2002.

Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D.  is our Executive
    Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications and has served in that position since October
    2007. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources from November 2003 to October 2007. Dr. Schneier
    served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Biogen,
    Inc., a position he held from January 2003 until the merger. He
    joined Biogen, Inc. in 2001 as Senior Vice President, Strategic
    Organization Design and Effectiveness, after having served as an
    external consultant to us for eight years. Prior to joining
    Biogen, Inc., Dr. Schneier was president of his own
    management consulting firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided
    consulting services to over 70 of the Fortune
    100 companies, as well as several of the largest European
    and Asian firms. Dr. Schneier held a tenured professorship
    at the University of Maryland s Smith School of Business
    and has held teaching positions at the business schools of the
    University of Michigan, Columbia University, and at the Tuck
    School of Business, Dartmouth College.

18

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

We are
    substantially dependent on revenues from our three principal
    products.   

Our current and future revenues depend upon continued sales of
    our three principal products, AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, which
    represented substantially all of our total revenues during 2009.
    Although we have developed and continue to develop additional
    products for commercial introduction, we expect to be
    substantially dependent on sales from these three products for
    many years. Any negative developments relating to any of these
    products, such as safety or efficacy issues, the introduction or
    greater acceptance of competing products, including biosimilars,
    or adverse regulatory or legislative developments may reduce our
    revenues and adversely affect our results of operations.

Market
    acceptance and sales growth of TYSABRI are important to our
    success.   

TYSABRI is expected to drive additional revenue growth over the
    next several years. If we are not successful in growing sales of
    TYSABRI, it would materially and adversely affect our growth and
    plans for the future.

TYSABRI s sales growth will depend upon its acceptance by
    the medical community and patients, which cannot be certain
    given the significant restrictions on use and the significant
    safety warnings in the label. Since we reintroduced TYSABRI to
    the market in July 2006, some patients taking TYSABRI have been
    diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML),
    a rare but serious brain infection described in the TYSABRI
    label. If the incidence of PML were to exceed the rate implied
    by the TYSABRI label, it could prompt regulatory review and
    result in significant changes to the label or market withdrawal.
    The recently revised prescribing information for TYSABRI
    indicates that the risk of developing PML increases with longer
    treatment duration, with limited experience beyond 3 years
    of treatment. This may cause prescribing physicians or patients
    to suspend treatment with TYSABRI to mitigate the duration risk,
    which could limit sales. Further increases in incidence rates at
    various durations of exposure could harm acceptance or limit
    sales growth. Additional regulatory restrictions on the use of
    TYSABRI or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk
    management programs, whether as a result of additional cases of
    PML or otherwise, may significantly reduce expected revenues and
    require significant expense and management time to address the
    associated legal and regulatory issues.

As a relatively new entrant to a maturing MS market, TYSABRI
    sales may be more sensitive to additional new competing
    products. A number of such products are expected to be approved
    for use in MS beginning in 2010. If these products have a
    similar or more attractive overall profile in terms of efficacy,
    convenience and safety, future sales of TYSABRI could be
    limited, which would reduce our revenues.

Our
    long-term success depends upon the successful development and
    commercialization of other product candidates.   

Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the
    successful development and commercialization of other products
    from our research and development activities. Product
    development and commercialization are very expensive and involve
    a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and
    development programs result in the commercialization of a
    product. Success in preclinical work or early stage clinical
    trials does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical
    trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials
    are successful, regulatory authorities may disagree with our
    view of the data or require additional studies.

Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and
    expensive process. Our ability to complete our clinical trials
    in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key
    factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional
    review board approval, the rate of patient enrollment in
    clinical trials, and compliance with extensive current good
    clinical practice requirements. We have opened clinical sites
    and are enrolling patients in a number of new countries where
    our experience is more limited, and we are in many cases using
    the services of third-party clinical trial providers. If we fail
    to adequately manage the design, execution and regulatory
    aspects of our large, complex and diverse clinical trials, our
    studies and ultimately our regulatory approvals may be delayed
    or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates
    altogether.

Our product pipeline includes several small molecule drug
    candidates. Our small molecule drug discovery platform is not as
    well developed as our biologics platform, and we will have to
    make a significant investment of

19

Table of Contents   

time and resources to expand our capabilities in this area.
    Currently, third party manufacturers supply substantially all of
    our clinical requirements for small molecules. If these
    manufacturers fail to deliver sufficient quantities of such drug
    candidates in a timely and cost-effective manner, it could
    adversely affect our small molecule drug discovery efforts. If
    we decide to manufacture clinical or commercial supplies of any
    small molecule drugs in our own facilities, we will need to
    invest substantial additional funds and recruit qualified
    personnel to develop our small molecule manufacturing
    capabilities.

Adverse
    safety events can negatively affect our business and stock
    price.   

Adverse safety events involving our marketed products may have a
    negative impact on our commercialization efforts. Later
    discovery of safety issues with our products that were not known
    at the time of their approval by the FDA could cause product
    liability events, additional regulatory scrutiny and
    requirements for additional labeling, withdrawal of products
    from the market and the imposition of fines or criminal
    penalties. Any of these actions could result in, among other
    things, material write-offs of inventory and impairments of
    intangible assets, goodwill and fixed assets. In addition, the
    reporting of adverse safety events involving our products and
    public rumors about such events could cause our stock price to
    decline or experience periods of volatility.

If we
    fail to compete effectively, our business and market position
    would suffer.   

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry is intensely
    competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our
    products, the development of new products and processes, the
    acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential
    and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with
    biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater
    number of products on the market and in the product pipeline,
    greater financial and other resources and other technological or
    competitive advantages. One or more of our competitors may
    receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely
    affects our product development or business, may benefit from
    significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities, and may
    develop products that are accepted more widely than ours. The
    introduction of more efficacious, safer, cheaper, or more
    convenient alternatives to our products could reduce our
    revenues and the value of our product development efforts.
    Potential governmental action in the future could provide a
    means for competition from developers of follow-on biologics,
    which could compete on price and differentiation with products
    that we now or could in the future market.

In addition to competing directly with products that are
    marketed by substantial pharmaceutical competitors, AVONEX,
    RITUXAN and TYSABRI also face competition from off-label uses of
    drugs approved for other indications. Some of our current
    competitors are also working to develop alternative formulations
    for delivery of their products, which may in the future compete
    with ours.

We
    depend, to a significant extent, on reimbursement from third
    party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement
    could reduce our product sales and revenue.   

Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the
    availability and extent of reimbursement from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Changes in government regulations or private
    third-party payors  reimbursement policies may reduce
    reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future
    results.

In the U.S., there have been numerous proposals considered at
    the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms of health
    care and its cost, and it is likely that federal and state
    legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on
    health care reform in the future. Congress has considered
    legislation to reform the U.S. health care system by
    expanding health insurance coverage, reducing health care costs
    and making other changes. While health care reform may increase
    the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our
    products, it may also include cost containment measures that
    adversely affect reimbursement for our products. Congress has
    also considered legislation to change the Medicare reimbursement
    system for outpatient drugs, increase the amount of rebates that
    manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by Medicaid
    programs and facilitate the importation of lower-cost
    prescription drugs that are marketed outside the U.S. Some
    states are also considering legislation that would control the
    prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly
    requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and
    requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of
    any drug for which supplemental rebates are

20

Table of Contents   

not being paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek
    price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on
    the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce
    Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care
    organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed
    care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a
    larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint
    on prices and reimbursement for our products.

We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    other countries. In the European Union and some other
    international markets, the government provides health care at
    low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices,
    patient eligibility or reimbursement levels to control costs for
    the government-sponsored health care system. This international
    system of price regulations may lead to inconsistent prices.
    Within the European Union and in other countries, the
    availability of our products in some markets at lower prices
    undermines our sales in some markets with higher prices.
    Additionally, certain countries set prices by reference to the
    prices in other countries where our products are marketed. Thus,
    our inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country
    may also impair our ability to obtain acceptable prices in
    existing and potential new markets. This may create the
    opportunity for third party cross border trade or influence our
    decision to sell or not to sell a product, thus affecting our
    geographic expansion plans.

When a new medical product is approved, the availability of
    government and private reimbursement for that product is
    uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be
    reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of
    reimbursement for our product candidates.

We
    depend on collaborators for both product and royalty revenue and
    the clinical development of future collaboration products, which
    are outside of our full control.   

Collaborations between companies on products or programs are a
    common business practice in the biotechnology industry.
    Out-licensing typically allows a partner to collect up front
    payments and future milestone payments, share the costs of
    clinical development and risk of failure at various points, and
    access sales and marketing infrastructure and expertise in
    exchange for certain financial rights to the product or program
    going to the in-licensing partner. In addition, the obligation
    of in-licensees to pay royalties or share profits generally
    terminates upon expiration of the related patents. We have a
    number of collaborators and partners, and have both in-licensed
    and out-licensed several products and programs. These
    collaborations are subject to several risks:

we are not fully in control of the royalty or profit sharing
    revenues we receive from collaborators, which may be adversely
    affected by patent expirations, pricing or health care reforms,
    other legal and regulatory developments, the introduction of
    competitive products, and new indication approvals which may
    affect the sales of collaboration products;

where we co-promote and co-market products with our
    collaboration partners, any failure on their part to comply with
    applicable laws and regulatory requirements in the sale and
    marketing of our products could have an adverse effect on our
    revenues as well as involve us in possible legal
    proceedings; and

collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and
    failure to do so effectively could have an adverse impact on
    product sales by our collaborators and partners, and could
    adversely affect the clinical development of products or
    programs under joint control.

In addition, under our collaboration agreement with Genentech,
    the successful development and commercialization of the first
    anti-CD20 product acquired or developed by Genentech will
    decrease our percentage of the collaboration s co-promotion
    profits.

If we
    do not successfully execute our growth initiatives through the
    acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products,
    technologies or companies, our future performance could be
    adversely affected.   

We anticipate growing through internal development projects as
    well as external opportunities, which include the acquisition,
    partnering and in-licensing of products, technologies and
    companies or the entry into strategic alliances and
    collaborations. The availability of high quality opportunities
    is limited and we are not certain that we will be able to
    identify candidates that we and our shareholders consider
    suitable or complete transactions on terms that are acceptable
    to us and our shareholders. In order to pursue such
    opportunities, we may require significant

21

Table of Contents   

additional financing, which may not be available to us on
    favorable terms, if at all. Even if we are able to successfully
    identify and complete acquisitions, we may not be able to
    integrate them or take full advantage of them and therefore may
    not realize the benefits that we expect. In addition, third
    parties may be reluctant to partner with us due to the
    uncertainty created by the presence on our Board of Directors of
    two individuals nominated by an activist shareholder and the
    possibility that activist shareholders may gain additional
    representation on or control of our Board of Directors. If we
    are unsuccessful in our external growth program, we may not be
    able to grow our business significantly and we may incur asset
    impairment charges as a result of acquisitions that are not
    successful.

If we
    fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory
    requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face
    increased costs, penalties and a loss of business.   

Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators and
    third party providers, are subject to extensive government
    regulation and oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign
    jurisdictions. The FDA and comparable agencies in other
    jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical
    business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and
    clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and
    promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and
    product risk management. States increasingly have been placing
    greater restrictions on the marketing practices of health care
    companies. In addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations
    alleging violations of government regulation, including claims
    asserting submission of incorrect pricing information,
    impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products,
    payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state
    health care business, submission of false claims for government
    reimbursement, antitrust violations, or violations related to
    environmental matters. Violations of governmental regulation may
    be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines
    and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in
    government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. In
    addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we
    could be required to repay amounts we received from government
    payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found
    to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted
    to the government. Whether or not we have complied with the law,
    an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase
    our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and
    attention and adversely affect our business.

If we
    fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental
    regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur
    substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales.   

We and our third party providers are generally required to
    maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice and
    are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable agencies in
    other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. In addition, the
    FDA must approve any significant changes to our suppliers or
    manufacturing methods. If we or our third party service
    providers cannot demonstrate ongoing current Good Manufacturing
    Practice compliance, we may be required to withdraw or recall
    product and interrupt commercial supply of our products. Any
    delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the
    manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products
    as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or
    operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency
    inspection could significantly impair our ability to develop and
    commercialize our products. Significant noncompliance could also
    result in the imposition of monetary penalties or other civil or
    criminal sanctions. This non-compliance could increase our
    costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our
    reputation.

Changes
    in laws affecting the health care industry could adversely
    affect our revenues and profitability.   

We and our collaborators and third party providers operate in a
    highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may
    adversely affect our business, operations or financial
    condition, including:

new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new
    interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions,
    related to health care availability, method of delivery and
    payment for health care products and services;

changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes
    that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
    result in lost market opportunity;

22

Table of Contents   

changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require
    additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on
    product distribution or use, or other measures after the
    introduction of our products to market, which could increase our
    costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted
    uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the
    market for our products;

new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing
    or marketing practices; and

changes in the tax laws relating to our operations.

The enactment in the U.S. of health care reform, possible
    legislation which could ease the entry of competing follow-on
    biologics in the marketplace, new legislation or implementation
    of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost
    competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on
    comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously
    enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely
    affect our business. In addition, the Food and Drug
    Administration Amendments Act of 2007 included new authorization
    for the FDA to require post-market safety monitoring, along with
    an expanded clinical trials registry and clinical trials results
    database, and expanded authority for the FDA to impose civil
    monetary penalties on companies that fail to meet certain
    commitments.

Problems
    with manufacturing or with inventory planning could result in
    inventory shortages, product recalls and increased
    costs.   

Biologics manufacturing is extremely susceptible to product loss
    due to contamination, equipment failure, or vendor or operator
    error. In addition, we may need to close a manufacturing
    facility for an extended period of time due to microbial, viral
    or other contamination. Any of these events could result in
    shipment delays or product recalls, impairing our ability to
    supply products in existing markets or expand into new markets.
    In the past, we have taken inventory write-offs and incurred
    other charges and expenses for products that failed to meet
    specifications, and we may incur similar charges in the future.

We rely solely on our manufacturing facility in Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina for the production of TYSABRI. Our
    global bulk supply of TYSABRI depends on the uninterrupted and
    efficient operation of this facility, which could be adversely
    affected by equipment failures, labor shortages (whether as a
    result of pandemic flu outbreak or otherwise), natural
    disasters, power failures and numerous other factors. If we are
    unable to meet demand for TYSABRI for any reason, we would need
    to rely on a limited number of qualified third party contract
    manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we could reach
    agreement on reasonable terms, if at all, with those
    manufacturers or that the FDA would approve our use of such
    manufacturers on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, the
    transition of our manufacturing process to a third party could
    take a significant amount of time and involve significant
    expense.

Our
    investments in properties, including our manufacturing
    facilities, may not be fully realizable   

We own or lease real estate primarily consisting of buildings
    that contain research laboratories, office space, and biologic
    manufacturing operations, some of which are located in markets
    that are experiencing high vacancy rates and decreasing property
    values. If we decide to consolidate or co-locate certain aspects
    of our business operations, for strategic or other operational
    reasons, we may dispose of one or more of our properties.

Due to reduced expectations of product demand, improved yields
    on production and other factors, we may not fully utilize our
    manufacturing facilities at normal levels resulting in idle time
    at facilities or substantial excess manufacturing capacity. We
    are always evaluating our current manufacturing strategy, and
    may pursue alternatives that include delaying the completion of
    our Denmark facility or disposing of manufacturing facilities.

If any of our owned properties are held for sale, or disposed
    of, we may not realize the full investment in these properties
    and incur significant impairment charges if the fair value of
    the properties were determined to be lower than their book
    value. In addition, if we decide to fully or partially vacate a
    leased property, we may incur significant cost, including lease
    termination fees, rent expense in excess of sublease income and
    impairment of leasehold improvements.

23

Table of Contents   

We
    rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, manufacture
    the product itself.   

We rely on Genentech for all RITUXAN manufacturing. Genentech
    relies on a third party to manufacture certain bulk RITUXAN
    requirements. If Genentech or any third party upon which it
    relies does not manufacture or fill-finish RITUXAN in sufficient
    quantities and on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if
    Genentech or any third party does not obtain and maintain all
    required manufacturing approvals, our business could be harmed.

We also source all of our fill-finish and the majority of our
    final product storage operations, along with a substantial
    portion of our packaging operations, to a concentrated group of
    third party contractors. Any third party we use to fill-finish,
    package or store our products to be sold in the U.S. must
    be licensed by the FDA. As a result, alternative third party
    providers may not be readily available on a timely basis. The
    manufacture of products and product components, fill-finish,
    packaging and storage of our products require successful
    coordination among us and multiple third party providers. Our
    inability to coordinate these efforts, the lack of capacity
    available at a third party contractor or any other problems with
    the operations of these third party contractors could require us
    to delay shipment of saleable products; recall products
    previously shipped or impair our ability to supply products at
    all. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or
    market share, diminish our profitability or damage our
    reputation.

Due to the unique manner in which our products are manufactured,
    we rely on single source providers of several raw materials. We
    make efforts to qualify new vendors and to develop contingency
    plans so that production is not impacted by short-term issues
    associated with single source providers. Nonetheless, our
    business could be materially impacted by long-term or chronic
    issues associated with single source providers.

Our
    effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in
    tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts.   

As a global biotechnology company, we are subject to taxation in
    numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result,
    our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of
    applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate. In
    preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of
    tax that will become payable in each of such places. Our
    effective tax rate, however, may be different than experienced
    in the past due to numerous factors, including changes in the
    mix of our profitability from country to country, the results of
    audits of our tax filings, changes in accounting for income
    taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause
    us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different
    from previous periods or our current expectations, which could
    have an effect on our business and results of operations.

In addition, our inability to secure or sustain acceptable
    arrangements with tax authorities and previously enacted or
    future changes in the tax laws, among other things, may require
    us to accrue for future tax payments in excess of amounts
    accrued in our financial statements

The Obama administration announced several proposals to reform
    U.S. tax rules, including proposals that may reduce or
    eliminate the deferral of U.S. income tax on our
    unrepatriated earnings, potentially requiring those earnings to
    be taxed at the U.S. federal income tax rate, reduce or
    eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and
    eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are
    repatriated to the U.S. Our future reported financial
    results may be adversely affected by tax rule changes which
    restrict or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits
    or deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or
    otherwise affect the treatment of our unrepatriated earnings.

The
    growth of our business depends on our ability to attract and
    retain qualified personnel and key relationships.   

The achievement of our commercial, research and development and
    external growth objectives depends upon our ability to attract
    and retain qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales and
    marketing and executive personnel and develop and maintain
    relationships with qualified clinical researchers and key
    distributors. Competition for these people and relationships is
    intense and comes from a variety of sources, including
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and
    non-profit research organizations. It may be more difficult for
    us to attract and retain these people and relationships due to
    the uncertainty created by the presence on our Board of
    Directors of two

24

Table of Contents   

individuals nominated by an activist shareholder and the
    possibility that activist shareholders may gain additional
    representation on or control of our Board of Directors. Our
    recruitment and retention efforts may also be adversely affected
    by the announcement that our Chief Executive Officer will retire
    from that position in June 2010 and the retirement of our
    President, Research and Development in October 2009. We are
    currently conducting searches for successors to our Chief
    Executive Officer and President, Research and Development.

Our
    sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally.   

We are increasing our presence in international markets, which
    subjects us to many risks, such as:

economic problems that disrupt foreign health care payment
    systems;

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

difficulties in staffing and managing international
    operations; 

the imposition of governmental controls;

less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;

the inability to obtain any necessary foreign regulatory or
    pricing approvals of products in a timely manner;

restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade
    restrictions;

changes in tax laws and tariffs; and

longer payment cycles.

In addition, our international operations are subject to
    regulation under U.S. law. For example, the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or
    retaining business abroad. In many countries, the health care
    professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition
    of a foreign official for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws
    could result in various adverse consequences, including possible
    delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls,
    seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, and
    the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions.

The
    presence of directors nominated by an activist shareholder, and
    the possibility that activist shareholders may gain additional
    representation on or control of our Board of Directors could
    cause uncertainty about the direction of our
    business.   

During 2008 and 2009, proxy contests commenced by entities
    affiliated with Carl Icahn resulted in the 2009 election of two
    of the Icahn nominees to our Board of Directors. In November
    2009, another activist shareholder publicly advocated for
    certain changes at our company. In January 2010, we received a
    notice from Icahn Partners and certain of its affiliates
    nominating three individuals for election to our Board of
    Directors at the 2010 annual meeting and proposing to amend our
    bylaws to set the number of directors at twelve. These and other
    existing or potential shareholders may attempt to gain
    additional representation on or control of our Board of
    Directors, the possibility of which may create uncertainty
    regarding the direction of our business. Perceived uncertainties
    as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential
    acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities, and
    may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified
    personnel and business partners. In addition, disagreement among
    our directors about the direction of our business could impair
    our ability to effectively execute our strategic plan.

Our 2008 and 2009 proxy contests were disruptive to our
    operations and caused us to incur substantial costs. The SEC has
    recently proposed to give shareholders the ability to include
    their director nominees and their proposals relating to a
    shareholder nomination process in company proxy materials, which
    would make it easier for activists to nominate directors to our
    Board of Directors. If the SEC implements its proxy access
    proposal, we may face an increase in the number of shareholder
    nominees for election to our Board of Directors. Future proxy
    contests and the presence of additional activist shareholder
    nominees on our Board of Directors could interfere with our
    ability to execute our strategic plan, be costly and
    time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention
    of management and our employees.

25

Table of Contents   

If we
    are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual
    property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our
    development efforts or our acquired technology.   

We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and
    various other countries seeking protection of the processes,
    products and other inventions originating from our research and
    development. Patents have been issued on many of these
    applications. We have also obtained rights to various patents
    and patent applications under licenses with third parties, which
    provide for the payment of royalties by us. The ultimate degree
    of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology
    products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in
    other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon
    the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices,
    courts and lawmakers in these countries. Our patents may not
    afford us substantial protection or commercial benefit.
    Similarly, our pending patent applications or patent
    applications licensed from third parties may not ultimately be
    granted as patents and we may not prevail if patents that have
    been issued to us are challenged in court. In addition, pending
    legislation to reform the patent system and court decisions or
    patent office regulations that place additional restrictions on
    patent claims or that facilitate patent challenges could also
    reduce our ability to protect our intellectual property rights.
    If we cannot prevent others from exploiting our inventions, we
    will not derive the benefit from them that we currently expect.

We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and other proprietary
    information, and we cannot assure that others will not
    independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary
    information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade
    secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully
    protect such rights. We require our employees, consultants,
    outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we
    sponsor and other advisers to execute confidentiality agreements
    upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships
    with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection
    or adequate remedies for our unpatented proprietary information
    in the event of use or disclosure of such information.

If our
    products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we
    may incur damages and be required to incur the expense of
    obtaining a license.   

A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. To the extent
    that valid third party patent rights cover our products or
    services, we or our strategic collaborators would be required to
    seek licenses from the holders of these patents in order to
    manufacture, use or sell these products and services, and
    payments under them would reduce our profits from these products
    and services. We are currently unable to predict the extent to
    which we may wish or be required to acquire rights under such
    patents and the availability and cost of acquiring such rights,
    or whether a license to such patents will be available on
    acceptable terms or at all. There may be patents in the
    U.S. or in foreign countries or patents issued in the
    future that are unavailable to license on acceptable terms. Our
    inability to obtain such licenses may hinder our ability to
    manufacture and market our products.

Uncertainty
    over intellectual property in the biotechnology industry has
    been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and
    unpredictable.   

We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and
    in other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to
    our business. Some of those patents and patent applications
    claim only specific products or methods of making such products,
    while others claim more general processes or techniques useful
    or now used in the biotechnology industry. There is considerable
    uncertainty within the biotechnology industry about the
    validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the
    U.S. and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, there is no
    consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in
    biotechnology patents. We cannot currently determine the
    ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to
    third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted
    to be infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products.

There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. Litigation and
    administrative proceedings concerning patents and other
    intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and
    distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of
    delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation,
    including any interference proceedings to

26

Table of Contents   

determine priority of inventions, oppositions to patents in
    foreign countries or litigation against our partners may be
    costly and time consuming and could harm our business. We expect
    that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine
    the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights.
    Litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the
    validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights
    claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use
    or sale of our products. Ultimately, the outcome of such
    litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our
    patent or other proprietary rights or hinder our ability to
    manufacture and market our products.

Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation.   

The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical
    studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product
    liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause
    of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or
    may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug
    interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those
    effects until the product or product candidate has been
    administered to patients for a prolonged period of time.

We are subject from time to time to lawsuits based on product
    liability and related claims. We cannot predict with certainty
    the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. We may
    not be successful in defending ourselves in the litigation and,
    as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These
    lawsuits may result in large judgments or settlements against
    us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial
    condition and business if in excess of our insurance coverage.
    Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or
    not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert
    the attention of our management and other resources that would
    otherwise be engaged in managing our business.

Our
    operating results are subject to significant
    fluctuations.   

Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have
    fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly
    in the future due to the timing of charges and expenses that we
    may take. In recent periods, for instance, we have recorded
    charges that include:

impairments that we are required to take with respect to
    investments;

impairments that we are required to take with respect to fixed
    assets, including those that are recorded in connection with the
    sale of fixed assets;

inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges
    for excess or obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write
    downs relating to product suspensions;

milestone payments under license and collaboration agreements;

payments in connection with acquisitions and other business
    development activity; and

the cost of restructurings.

Our revenues are also subject to foreign exchange rate
    fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. We
    recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our
    operations in the period in which we incur those gains or
    losses. Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to
    hedge specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign
    currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may
    not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuations among our
    reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the currencies in
    which we do business will affect our operating results, often in
    unpredictable ways. Additionally, our net income may fluctuate
    due to the impact of charges we may be required to take with
    respect to foreign currency hedge transactions. In particular,
    we may incur higher charges from hedge ineffectiveness than we
    expect or from the termination of a hedge relationship.

These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including
    those discussed in these  Risk Factors,  could also
    cause fluctuations in our reported earnings. In addition, our
    operating results during any one period do not necessarily
    suggest the anticipated results of future periods.

27

Table of Contents   

Credit
    and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks
    affecting our business.   

Sales of our products are dependent on reimbursement from
    government health administration authorities, private health
    insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. As a
    result of credit and financial market conditions, these
    organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement
    obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state
    health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid
    reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny
    of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of
    reimbursement could reduce our product sales and revenue.

We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our
    business, including portions of our product manufacturing,
    royalty revenue, clinical development of future collaboration
    products, conduct of clinical trials, and raw materials. Such
    third parties may be unable to satisfy their commitments to us
    due to tightening of global credit from time to time, which
    would adversely affect our business.

Our
    portfolio of marketable securities is significant and subject to
    market, interest and credit risk that may reduce its
    value.   

We maintain a significant portfolio of marketable securities.
    Changes in the value of this portfolio could adversely affect
    our earnings. In particular, the value of our investments may
    decline due to increases in interest rates, downgrades in the
    corporate bonds and other securities included in our portfolio,
    instability in the global financial markets that reduces the
    liquidity of securities included in our portfolio, declines in
    the value of collateral underlying the mortgage and asset-backed
    securities included in our portfolio, and other factors. Each of
    these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the
    carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell investments
    for less than our acquisition cost. Although we attempt to
    mitigate these risks by investing in high quality securities and
    continuously monitoring our portfolio s overall risk
    profile, the value of our investments may nevertheless decline.

Our
    level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business and
    limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our
    business.   

As of December 31, 2009, we had $1.1 billion of
    outstanding indebtedness, and we may incur additional debt in
    the future. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our
    business by, among other things:

requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
    reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes,
    including business development efforts and research and
    development;

limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and the industry in which we operate,
    thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that may have less debt; and

increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions.

Our
    business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of
    compliance and the risk of contamination or
    injury.   

Our business and the business of several of our strategic
    partners, including Genentech and Elan, involves the controlled
    use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive
    compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for
    handling and disposing of such materials comply with state and
    federal standards, there will always be the risk of accidental
    contamination or injury. By law, radioactive materials may only
    be disposed of at state-approved facilities. We currently store
    radioactive materials from our California laboratory
     on-site 
    because the approval of a disposal site in California for all
    California-based companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and
    when a disposal site is approved, we may incur substantial costs
    related to the disposal of these materials. If we were to become
    liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended
    facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and
    penalties that could harm our business. Biologics manufacturing
    also requires permits from government agencies for water supply
    and wastewater discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate
    permits, or permits for sufficient quantities of water and
    wastewater, we could incur significant costs and limits on our
    manufacturing volumes that could harm our business.

28

Table of Contents   

Several
    aspects of our corporate governance and our collaboration
    agreements may discourage a third party from attempting to
    acquire us.   

Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could
    be viewed as beneficial to shareholders who wish to receive a
    premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example:

we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a
    business combination with an interested shareholder for a period
    of three years after the date of the transaction in which the
    person became an interested shareholder, unless the business
    combination is approved in the manner prescribed in
    Section 203;

our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a
    vote or action of shareholders, shares of preferred stock and to
    fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those
    shares, each of which could be superior to the rights of holders
    of common stock;

our collaboration agreement with Elan provides Elan with the
    option to buy the rights to TYSABRI if we undergo a change of
    control, which may limit our attractiveness to potential
    acquirers;

our collaboration agreement with Genentech provides that, if we
    undergo a change of control, within 90 days Genentech may
    present an offer to us to purchase our rights to RITUXAN. If a
    change of control were to occur in the future and Genentech were
    to present an offer for the RITUXAN rights, we must either
    accept Genentech s offer or purchase Genentech s
    rights to RITUXAN on the same terms as its offer. If Genentech
    presents such an offer, then they will be deemed concurrently to
    have exercised a right, in exchange for a royalty on net sales
    in the U.S. of any anti-CD20 product acquired or developed
    by Genentech or any anti-CD20 product that Genentech licenses
    from a third party that is developed under the agreement, to
    purchase our interest in each such product;

our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the
    entire board from being replaced in any single year; and

advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for
    election as a director and for proposals to be brought before an
    annual meeting of shareholders.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

29

Table of Contents   

Item 2.      

Properties   

Massachusetts   

Our principal executive offices are located in Cambridge,
    Massachusetts. In Cambridge, we own approximately
    525,000 square feet of real estate space, consisting of a
    building that houses a research laboratory, office space and a
    cogeneration plant which total approximately 280,000 square
    feet and an approximately 245,000 square foot building that
    contains research, development and quality laboratories.

We lease a total of approximately 450,000 square feet,
    which includes a 70,000 square foot biologics manufacturing
    facility and additional laboratory and office space of
    125,000 square feet and 255,000 square feet,
    respectively. In addition, we lease approximately
    36,000 square feet of warehouse space in Somerville,
    Massachusetts, approximately 105,000 square feet of office
    space in Wellesley, Massachusetts, and approximately
    25,000 square feet of office and laboratory space in
    Waltham, Massachusetts.

In November 2008, we executed a fifteen year lease on a
    356,000 square foot office building in Weston,
    Massachusetts, which will serve as the future location of our
    general and administrative offices with a planned occupancy
    around mid-year 2010.

The expiration dates for our leased sites in Massachusetts range
    from 2010 to 2025.

California   

In San Diego, California, we own approximately
    43 acres of land upon which we have our oncology research
    and development campus. The campus, which totals approximately
    355,000 square feet, primarily consists of five
    interconnected buildings housing laboratory and office space.

North
    Carolina   

In Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, we own approximately
    550,000 square feet of real estate space. This includes a
    biologics manufacturing facility of approximately
    105,000 square feet, a large scale manufacturing plant of
    approximately 175,000 square feet, a warehouse comprising
    approximately 60,000 square feet, a large-scale
    purification facility of approximately 43,000 square feet,
    as well as approximately 167,000 square feet of laboratory
    and office space. We manufacture bulk AVONEX, TYSABRI and other
    products in our pipeline at this facility. In addition, we lease
    approximately 57,000 square feet of office space in Durham,
    North Carolina.

Denmark   

We own approximately 60 acres of land in Hiller d,
    Denmark. We are in the final stages of constructing a
    large-scale biologics manufacturing facility of approximately
    215,000 square feet in Hiller d, Denmark to be used to
    manufacture large molecule products. An administrative building
    of approximately 50,000 square feet, label and packaging
    facility of approximately 65,000 square feet, warehouse,
    utilities and support space of approximately 135,000 square
    feet, and laboratory facility of approximately
    50,000 square feet are currently in use. Additional
    information about this facility is set forth in the
     Business   Manufacturing and Raw Materials 
    section of this report.

Other
    International   

We lease office and laboratory space in Zug, Switzerland, our
    international headquarters, the United Kingdom, Germany, France,
    Denmark, and numerous other countries. The expiration dates for
    our international leased sites range from 2010 to 2023.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

Please refer to Note 19,  Litigation  to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements of this report, which is
    incorporated into this item by reference.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.

30

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Market
    Information  

Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under
    the symbol  BIIB.  The following table shows the high
    and low sales price for our common stock as reported by The
    NASDAQ Global Select Market for each quarter in the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008:

Holders  

As of February 5, 2010, there were approximately 1,097
    stockholders of record of our common stock. In addition, as of
    February 5, 2010, 270 stockholders of record of Biogen,
    Inc. common stock have yet to exchange their shares of Biogen,
    Inc. common stock for our common stock as contemplated by the
    merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in
    November 2003.

Dividends  

We have not paid cash dividends since our inception. We do not
    anticipate paying any cash dividends in the near term.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

The following table summarizes our common stock repurchase
    activity during the fourth quarter of 2009:

(1)  

On October 31, 2006, we announced that our Board of
    Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20.0 million
    shares of our common stock. Stock repurchased under this program
    will provide us with authorized shares for general corporate
    purposes, such as common stock to be issued under our employee
    equity and stock purchase plans. This repurchase program did not
    have an expiration date and was completed during the fourth
    quarter of 2009. We have used this share repurchase program
    principally for share stabilization. 

31

Table of Contents   

(2)  

During the first quarter of 2009 we repurchased approximately
    1.2 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of
    approximately $57.6 million under the 2006 Program. 

(3)  

On October 20, 2009, we announced that our Board of
    Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion
    of our common stock in addition to any shares remaining under
    our 2006 repurchase program. This repurchase program is intended
    to reduce our shares outstanding, with the objective of
    returning excess cash to shareholders, and we intend to retire
    repurchased shares. As of December 31, 2009 approximately
    8.8 million shares, at a cost of $422.4 million, have
    been repurchased under this program, all of which were retired.
    The number of remaining shares that may yet be purchased under
    this program is subject to price fluctuations of our common
    stock. 

(4)  

From January 1, 2010 through February 5, 2010, we
    repurchased approximately an additional 5.4 million shares
    under this program at a total cost of approximately
    $289.4 million, all of which were retired. Approximately
    $288.2 million remains available for the repurchase of our
    common stock under the 2009 program. 

Stock
    Performance Graph  

The graph below compares the five-year cumulative total
    stockholder return on our common stock, the S P 500 Index
    and the Nasdaq Pharmaceutical Index, assuming the investment of
    $100.00 on December 31, 2004 with dividends being
    reinvested. The stock price performance in the graph below is
    not necessarily indicative of future price performance.

32

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Consolidated Financial Data   

The following financial data should be read in conjunction with
    our consolidated financial statements and related notes
    beginning on
     page F-1 
    of this report.

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

(1)  

Included in costs and expenses in 2005 is a charge of
    $118.1 million related to facility impairment charges. 

(2)  

Included in total costs and expenses in 2006 is a charge of
    $207.4 million for in-process research and development from
    the acquisition of Fumapharm AG, a net gain of $6.1 million
    on the settlement of license agreements associated with
    Fumapharm AG and Fumedica GmbH and a charge of
    $123.1 million for in process research and development
    related to the acquisition of Conforma Therapeutics, Inc. 

33

Table of Contents   

(3)  

Upon adoption of a new accounting standard, which provided
    guidance for the accounting of our share-based compensation
    programs, we recorded the cumulative effect of an accounting
    change of $3.8 million, net, as of January 1, 2006. 

(4)  

Included in total costs and expenses in 2007 is a charge of
    $18.4 million for in-process research and development
    related to the acquisition of Syntonix Pharmaceuticals Inc. and
    $64.3 million related to our collaborations with Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC and Neurimmune SubOne AG, which we consolidated in
    accordance with the guidance provided by the  Consolidation
     Topic of the Codification. The $64.3 million was offset
    by an equal amount of noncontrolling interest, resulting in no
    net impact to the results of our operations. 

(5)  

In July 2007, we purchased 56,424,155 shares of our common
    stock pursuant to a tender offer. We funded the transaction
    through existing cash and cash equivalents of
    $1,490.5 million and a short term loan of
    $1,500.0 million. 

(6)  

Included in total cost and expenses in 2008 is
    $25.0 million for in process research and development
    related to a milestone payment made to the former shareholders
    of Conforma Therapeutics pursuant to the terms of our
    acquisition of Conforma Therapeutics in 2006. 

(7)  

Total costs and expenses in 2009 includes the
    $110.0 million upfront payment made to Acorda Therapeutics,
    Inc. pursuant to our June 30, 2009 collaboration and
    license agreement to develop and commercialize products
    containing fampridine in markets outside the U.S. 

(8)  

In 2009, we repurchased 16.0 million shares of our common
    stock at a cost of $751.2 million under our 2006 and
    2009 share repurchase programs. 

(9)  

Changes in tax law in certain state jurisdictions in which we
    operate and the resolution of multiple federal, state and
    foreign tax audits, including the effective settlement of
    several uncertain tax positions resulted in a $58.3 million
    reduction to our 2009 income tax expense. 

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our
    consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on
     page F-1 
    of this report.

Executive
    Summary  

Introduction   

Biogen Idec is a global biotechnology company that creates new
    standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical
    needs. Our business strategy is focused on discovering and
    developing
     first-in-class 
    or
     best-in-class 
    products that we can deliver to specialty markets globally.
    Patients around the world benefit from Biogen Idec s
    significant products that address medical needs in the areas of
    neurology, oncology and immunology.

In the near term, we are dependent on continued sales of AVONEX,
    RITUXAN and TYSABRI to drive our revenue growth. In the longer
    term, our revenue growth is also dependent on the successful
    clinical development, regulatory approval and launch of new
    commercial products.

As part of our ongoing research and development efforts, we have
    incurred significant expenditures related to conducting clinical
    studies to develop new pharmaceutical products and explore the
    utility of our existing products in treating disorders beyond
    those currently approved in their labels. We continue to focus
    our research and development efforts within our core and
    emergent areas of neurology, oncology, immunology,
    cardiopulmonary and hemophilia.

34

Table of Contents   

Financial
    Highlights   

The following table is a summary of financial results achieved:

As described below under Results of Operations, our operating
    results for the year ended December 31, 2009, were
    primarily driven by:

In addition to the strong operating results achieved, we
    generated $1,074.9 million of net cash flows from
    operations during 2009, which were primarily driven by increases
    in our earnings.

Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled
    approximately $2,457.8 million as of December 31, 2009.

Business
    Highlights   

In October 2009, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock, with
    repurchased shares being retired. During 2009, approximately
    16.0 million shares at a cost of $751.2 million were
    repurchased under this and our 2006 share repurchase
    programs.

In June 2009, we entered into a collaboration and license
    agreement with Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. (Acorda) to develop and
    commercialize products containing fampridine in markets outside
    the U.S. In July 2009, we made a $110.0 million
    upfront payment pursuant to this agreement.

35

Table of Contents   

Results
    of Operations  

Revenues   

Revenues are summarized as follows:

Product
    Revenues   

Product revenues are summarized as follows:

AVONEX   

Revenues from AVONEX are summarized as follows:

For 2009 compared to 2008, as well as for 2008 compared to 2007,
    the increase in U.S. AVONEX revenue was due to price increases,
    offset by decreased patient demand. Decreased commercial demand
    resulted in a 7.6% and a 6.0% decline in U.S. AVONEX sales
    volume in 2009 and 2008, respectively, over their prior year
    comparative periods. In addition, during 2009, we experienced
    higher participation in our Access Program, which provides free
    product to eligible patients.

For 2009 compared to 2008, the decrease in rest of world AVONEX
    revenue was primarily due to the negative impact of foreign
    exchange rate changes resulting from the strengthening of the
    U.S. dollar against relevant foreign currencies, primarily the
    Euro, offset by increased patient demand and price increases in
    some countries. For 2008 compared to 2007, rest of world sales
    of AVONEX increased due to increased patient demand, the impact
    of foreign exchange rate changes and the establishment of
    additional direct market affiliates. Increased commercial demand

36

Table of Contents   

resulted in increases of 6.3% and 8.6% in rest of world AVONEX
    sales volume in 2009 and 2008, respectively, over their prior
    year comparative periods.

AVONEX rest of world revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007 also
    include losses of $39.5 million, $8.5 million and
    $13.1 million, respectively, recognized in relation to the
    settlement of certain cash flow hedge instruments.

Continued growth of AVONEX revenue is primarily dependent on
    maintaining AVONEX s position as one of the most prescribed
    MS therapies in the world. We expect to face increasing
    competition in the MS marketplace in both the U.S. and rest of
    world from existing and new MS treatments, including oral and
    other alternative formulations developed by our competitors, the
    continued growth of TYSABRI and the commercialization of our
    other pipeline product candidates, which may have a continued
    negative impact on the unit sales of AVONEX as well as
    increasing price pressure. We continue to generate data showing
    AVONEX to be an effective and safe choice for MS patients and
    physicians.

TYSABRI   

We collaborate with Elan Pharma International, Ltd (Elan) an
    affiliate of Elan Corporation, plc, on the development and
    commercialization of TYSABRI. Please read Note 17,
     Collaborations  to our Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a description of this collaboration.

In the U.S., we sell TYSABRI to Elan who sells the product to
    third party distributors. Our sales price to Elan in the
    U.S. is set prior to the beginning of each quarterly period
    to effect an approximate equal sharing of the gross margin on
    sales in the U.S. between Elan and us. We recognize revenue
    for sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. upon Elan s shipment
    of the product to the third party distributors. In the rest of
    world markets, we are responsible for distributing TYSABRI to
    customers and are primarily responsible for all operating
    activities. We recognize revenue for sales of TYSABRI in the
    rest of world at the time of product delivery to our customers.

Revenues from TYSABRI include (1) our share of net
    U.S. sales of TYSABRI from Elan to third-party customers;
    (2) revenue on sales of TYSABRI in rest of world markets;
    (3) amortization of deferred revenue amounts related to
    Elan milestone payments made to us; and (4) gains or losses
    recognized in relation to the settlement of foreign currency
    forward contracts that were entered into to hedge forecasted
    revenues.

Revenues from TYSABRI are summarized as follows:

For 2009 compared to 2008, as well as for 2008 compared to 2007,
    the increase in U.S. TYSABRI revenue was due to the continued
    increase in the number of patients using TYSABRI in the U.S.
    Increased commercial demand resulted in increases of 16.3% and
    88.7% in U.S. TYSABRI sales volume for 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, over their prior year comparative periods. Net
    sales of TYSABRI from our collaboration partner, Elan, to
    third-party customers in the U.S. for each of the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 totaled $508.5
    million,  $421.6 million and $217.4 million,
    respectively.

For 2009 compared to 2008, as well as for 2008 compared to 2007,
    the increase in rest of world TYSABRI revenue was due to the
    continued increase in the number of patients using TYSABRI in
    our rest of world markets. Increased commercial demand resulted
    in increases of 49.0% and 203.8% in U.S. TYSABRI sales volume
    for 2009 and 2008, respectively, over their prior year
    comparative periods. The increase in TYSABRI revenues in 2009
    was offset by the negative impact of foreign currency exchange
    rate changes resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar
    against foreign currencies, primarily the Euro.

37

Table of Contents   

TYSABRI rest of world revenues for 2009 also include losses of
    $10.1 million recognized in relation to the settlement of
    certain cash flow hedge instruments; no such losses were
    recognized in 2008 or 2007 as we did not designate hedges
    against TYSABRI rest of world revenues in those periods.

In 2009 and 2008, we recognized $7.1 million and $1.5 million
    respectively of product revenue related to the amortization of
    the Elan milestone payments.

Since we reintroduced TYSABRI to the market in July 2006, some
    patients taking TYSABRI have been diagnosed with PML, a rare but
    serious brain infection described in the TYSABRI label. In
    November 2009, the U.S. prescribing information for TYSABRI
    was revised to reflect that the risk of PML increases with
    longer treatment duration, and for patients treated for 24 to
    36 months is generally similar to the rates seen in
    clinical trials. The revised label also reflects that there is
    limited experience beyond three years of treatment. In
    January 2010, the EMA recommended updating the TYSABRI
    label in the E.U. to reflect that the risk of PML increases
    after two years of therapy. The EMA also recommended that
    patients have regular MRI scans and be reinformed of the risk of
    PML after two years of therapy.

We continue to monitor the growth of TYSABRI unit sales, which
    may be further impacted by the updated prescribing information.
    We continue to research and develop protocols that may reduce
    risk and improve outcomes of PML in patients being treated with
    TYSABRI. We are working to identify patient or viral
    characteristics which contribute to the risk of developing PML,
    including the presence of asymptomatic JC virus infection with a
    serological assay for antibodies against the JC virus. Our
    efforts to improve management by physicians of PML and to
    improve patient outcomes have included researching plasma
    exchange to more rapidly remove TYSABRI from a patient, and drug
    screening that identified mefloquine as an anti-JC virus drug
    candidate.

Other
    Product Revenues   

Other product revenues represent revenues derived from FUMADERM,
    ZEVALIN and AMEVIVE and are summarized as follows:

Unconsolidated
    Joint Business Revenues  

We collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of RITUXAN. Please read Note 17,
     Collaborations  to our Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a description of this collaboration.

The majority of RITUXAN unit sales are for use in oncology as a
    treatment for certain types of B-cell NHL. We believe there is
    opportunity for RITUXAN unit sales growth in the immunology
    setting, where RITUXAN is used as a treatment for certain types
    of RA. Additional immunology indications for RITUXAN that we are
    investigating include ANCA-associated vasculitis.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist of
    (1) our share of pretax co-promotion profits in the U.S.;
    (2) reimbursement of our selling and development expense in
    the U.S.; and (3) revenue on sales of RITUXAN in the rest
    of world, which consist of our share of pretax co-promotion
    profits in Canada and royalty revenue on sales of RITUXAN
    outside the U.S. and Canada by F. Hoffmann-La Roche
    Ltd. (Roche) and its sublicensees. Pre-tax co-promotion profits
    are calculated and paid to us by Genentech in the U.S. and
    by Roche in Canada. Pre-tax co-promotion profits consist of
    U.S. and Canadian sales of RITUXAN to third-party customers
    net of discounts and allowances less the cost to manufacture
    RITUXAN, third-party royalty expenses, distribution, selling and
    marketing, and joint development expenses incurred by Genentech,
    Roche and us.

38

Table of Contents   

The following table provides a summary of revenues from
    unconsolidated joint business:

Biogen
    Idec s Share of Co-Promotion Profits in the
    U.S.   

The following table provides a summary of amounts comprising our
    share of co-promotion profits in the U.S.:

For 2009 compared to 2008, the increase in U.S. RITUXAN
    product revenue on sales recorded by Genentech resulted from
    continued growth for treatment of B-cell NHL and RA, and price
    increases. For 2008 compared to 2007 the increase in
    U.S. RITUXAN product revenue was primarily due to increased
    unit sales in treatments of B-cell NHL, CLL (an unapproved and
    unpromoted use of RITUXAN) and RA, and price increases.
    Collaboration costs and expenses for 2009 as compared to 2008
    decreased primarily due to higher costs incurred in development
    of RITUXAN for use in other indications during 2008.

Under our collaboration agreement, our current pretax
    co-promotion profit-sharing formula, which resets annually,
    provides for a 30% share of co-promotion profits on the first
    $50.0 million of co-promotion operating profit with our
    share increasing to 40% if co-promotion operating profits exceed
    $50.0 million. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, the 40% threshold
    was met during the first quarter.

In addition, under our collaboration agreement, we have rights
    to collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of (1) anti-CD20 products that Genentech
    acquires or develops, which we refer to as New Anti-CD20
    Products, and (2) anti-CD20 products that Genentech
    licenses from a third party, which we refer to as Third Party
    Anti-CD20 Products. Our collaboration rights for New Anti-CD20
    Products are limited to the U.S. and our collaboration
    rights for Third Party Anti-CD20 Products are dependent upon
    Genentech s underlying license rights. There is only one
    New Anti-CD20 Product, ocrelizumab, and only one Third Party
    Anti-CD20 Product, GA101.

Our agreement with Genentech also provides that the successful
    development and commercialization of the first New Anti-CD20
    Product will decrease our percentage of co-promotion profits of
    the collaboration. Please read Note 17,  Collaborations
     to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information regarding the pretax co-promotion profit sharing
    formula for RITUXAN and New Anti-CD20 Products sold by us and
    Genentech following the approval date of the first New Anti-CD20
    Product. We will participate in Third Party Anti-CD20 Products
    on similar financial terms as for ocrelizumab.

39

Table of Contents   

Reimbursement
    of Selling and Development Expense in the U.S.   

As discussed within Note 17,  Collaborations  to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements, Genentech incurs the majority
    of continuing development costs for RITUXAN. Expenses incurred
    by Genentech in the development of RITUXAN are not recorded as
    research and development expense, but rather reduce our share of
    co-promotion profits recorded as a component of unconsolidated
    joint business revenue.

Selling and development expenses, incurred by us in the
    U.S. and reimbursed by Genentech, increased in 2009 as
    compared 2008 due to an increase in sales and marketing expense
    associated with CLL and legal fees.

The increase in selling and development expenses in 2008
    compared to 2007 was primarily due to development costs we
    incurred related to the development of RITUXAN in RA.

Revenue
    on Sales of RITUXAN in the Rest of World   

We record our royalty revenue and co-promotion profit revenue on
    sales of RITUXAN in the rest of world on a cash basis. Revenues
    on sales of RITUXAN in the rest of world decreased in 2009
    compared to 2008 primarily due to royalty expirations in certain
    of these markets and the negative impact of foreign exchange
    rate changes.

Revenues on sales of RITUXAN in the rest of world increased in
    2008 compared to 2007 due to several factors, including
    increased market penetration in NHL and increased use in RA.

The royalty period for sales in the rest of world with respect
    to all products is 11 years from the first commercial sale
    of such product on a
     country-by-country 
    basis. For the majority of European countries, the first
    commercial sale of RITUXAN occurred in the second half of 1998.
    Specifically, the royalty periods with respect to sales in
    France, Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom expired in 2009.
    The royalty period with respect to sales in Italy will expire in
    2010. The royalty periods with respect to sales in other
    countries will subsequently expire through 2012. As a result of
    these expirations, we expect royalty revenues derived from sales
    of RITUXAN in the rest of world to continue to decline in future
    years.

Other
    Revenues  

Our product line previously included ZEVALIN ( ibritumomab
    tiuxetan ) which is part of a treatment regimen for certain
    B-cell NHL, and AMEVIVE ( alefacept ), a treatment for
    certain moderate to severe psoriasis. We have sold or
    exclusively licensed the rights to these products to third
    parties and continue to receive supply agreement revenues based
    on those products which are included in corporate partner
    revenues. We also receive royalties on sales by our licensees of
    a number of other products under patents that we own.

Other revenues are summarized as follows:

Royalty
    Revenues   

We receive royalties on sales by our licensees of products
    covered under patents that we own. Sales of licensed products
    could vary significantly due to competition, manufacturing
    difficulties and other factors that are not within our control.
    In addition, the expiration or invalidation of any underlying
    patents could reduce or eliminate the royalty revenues derived
    from such patents.

The increase in royalty revenues in 2009 as compared to 2008, as
    well as in 2008 as compared to 2007, was primarily due to
    increased sales of ANGIOMAX (bivalirudin) licensed to The
    Medicines Company (TMC) offset by a decline in royalties from
    sales of other licensed product and the expiration of certain
    contracts and license agreements.

40

Table of Contents   

Our most significant source of royalty revenue is derived from
    sales of ANGIOMAX by TMC. TMC sells ANGIOMAX in the U.S.,
    Europe, Canada, and Latin America for use as an anticoagulant in
    combination with aspirin in patients with unstable angina
    undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.
    Royalty revenues related to the sales of ANGIOMAX are recognized
    in an amount equal to the level of net sales achieved during a
    calendar year multiplied by the royalty rate in effect for that
    tier under our agreement with TMC. The royalty rate increases
    based upon which tier of total net sales are earned in any
    calendar year. The increased royalty rate is applied
    retroactively to the first dollar of net sales achieved during
    the year. This formula has the effect of increasing the amount
    of royalty revenue to be recognized in later quarters.
    Accordingly, an adjustment is recorded in the period in which an
    increase in royalty rate has been achieved.

Under the terms of our agreement, TMC is obligated to pay us
    royalties earned, on a
     country-by-country 
    basis, until the later of (1) twelve years from the date of
    the first commercial sale of ANGIOMAX in such country and
    (2) the date upon which the product is no longer covered by
    a patent in such country. The annual royalty rate is reduced by
    a specified percentage in any country where the product is no
    longer covered by a patent and where sales have been reduced to
    a certain volume-based market share. TMC began selling ANGIOMAX
    in the U.S. in January 2001. The principal U.S. patent
    that covers ANGIOMAX expires in March 2010. The FDA has granted
    TMC an additional period of marketing exclusivity for ANGIOMAX
    in order to investigate its use in pediatric patients. This
    period expires in September 2010. In the event that third
    parties sell products comparable to ANGIOMAX after the period of
    marketing exclusivity expires, we would expect a significant
    decrease in royalty revenues due to lower royalty rates and
    increased competition.

Provisions
    for Discounts and Allowances  

Revenues from product sales are recorded net of applicable
    allowances for trade term discounts, wholesaler incentives,
    Medicaid rebates, Veterans Administration (VA) rebates, managed
    care rebates, product returns, and other applicable allowances.
    Reserves established for these discounts and allowances are
    classified as reductions of accounts receivable (if the amount
    is payable to our customer) or a liability (if the amount is
    payable to a party other than our customer). For 2009 compared
    to 2008, as well as 2008 compared to 2007, the increases in
    total allowances were primarily due to price increases.

Our product revenue reserves are based on estimates of the
    amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. These
    estimates take into consideration our historical experience,
    current contractual requirements, statutory requirements,
    specific known market events and trends and forecasted customer
    buying patterns. If actual results vary, we may need to adjust
    these estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the
    period of the adjustment.

Reserves for product returns are recorded in the period the
    related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to
    product sales. The majority of wholesaler returns are due to
    product expiration. Expired product return reserves are
    estimated through a comparison of historical return data, as
    adjusted, to their related sales on a production lot basis.
    Historical rates of return are determined for each product and
    are adjusted for known or expected changes in the marketplace
    specific to each product.

Reserves for discounts, contractual adjustments and returns that
    reduced gross product revenues were as follows:

41

Table of Contents   

Discount reserves include trade term discounts and wholesaler
    incentives. For 2009 compared to 2008, as well as for 2008
    compared to 2007, the increase in discounts was primarily driven
    by increases in trade term discounts and wholesaler incentives
    as a result of price increases.

Contractual adjustment reserves relate to Medicaid, VA and
    managed care rebates and other applicable allowances. For 2009
    compared to 2008, as well as for 2008 compared to 2007,
    contractual adjustments increased primarily due to the impact of
    higher reserves for managed care (associated with higher level
    of activity with respect to rebates and price increases in the
    U.S.) and Medicaid and VA programs (associated with price
    increases in the U.S.).

Product return reserves are established for returns made by
    wholesalers. In accordance with contractual terms, wholesalers
    are permitted to return product for reasons such as damaged or
    expired product. We also accept returns from our patients for
    various reasons. For 2009 compared to 2008, return reserves
    remained relatively unchanged. For 2008 compared to 2007, return
    reserves decreased primarily due to a decrease in estimated
    product returns based on historical trends.

Costs and
    Expenses  

A summary of total costs and expenses is as follows:

Cost
    of Sales, Excluding Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets
    (Cost of Sales)   

Components of cost of sales are summarized as follows:

For 2009 compared to 2008, the decrease in cost of sales was
    primarily due to a decrease in write-downs from unmarketable
    inventory of $12.9 million, decreased production costs of
    approximately $10.9 million resulting from the
    implementation of a new high-titer production process which
    produces higher yields of TYSABRI and an $8.8 million
    decrease in royalty payments on sales of licensed product due
    mainly to the expiration of certain contracts and license
    agreements. These decreases were offset by a $17.0 million
    increase in costs associated with higher TYSABRI sales volume.
    In addition, during 2008 we also incurred a $4.3 million
    period expense related to the shutdown of our manufacturing
    facility in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina for the
    implementation of the high-titer production process upgrades.

42

Table of Contents   

For 2008 as compared to 2007, the overall increase in cost of
    sales was primarily due to higher sales volume offset by
    decreased write-downs from unmarketable inventory.

Write-downs
    from Unmarketable Inventory   

Our products are subject to strict quality control and
    monitoring which we perform throughout the manufacturing
    process. Periodically, certain batches or units of product may
    no longer meet quality specifications or may expire. The shelf
    life associated with our products is generally between 3 and
    48 months, depending on the product. Obsolescence due to
    expiration has historically been insignificant.

Amounts written down related to unmarketable inventory are
    charged to cost of sales, and totaled $16.9 million,
    $29.8 million and $21.6 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Research
    and Development  

We devote significant resources to research and development
    programs focusing our efforts on finding novel therapeutics in
    areas of high unmet medical need within our core and emergent
    focus areas of neurology, oncology, immunology, cardiopulmonary
    and hemophilia. Over the past few years, we have incurred
    significant expenditures related to the development of new
    product candidates and exploring the utility of our existing
    products in treating disorders in addition to those currently
    approved in their labels. Costs associated with later stage
    clinical trials are, in most cases, more significant than those
    incurred in earlier stages of our pipeline.

Research and development expenses consist of upfront fees and
    milestones paid to collaborators and expenses incurred in
    performing research and development activities, including
    compensation and benefits, facilities expenses, overhead
    expenses, clinical trial and related clinical manufacturing
    expenses, fees paid to clinical research organizations (CROs)
    and other outside expenses. Research and development expenses
    are expensed as incurred. The timing of upfront fees and
    milestone payments in the future may cause variability in future
    research and development expense.

For 2009 compared to 2008, research and development expenses
    increased by $211.0 million, driven primarily by the
    $110.0 million upfront payment made to Acorda, as well as a
    net increase of $100.2 million related to the ramp up of
    clinical trial activity for certain development stage product
    candidates including lixivaptan, BG-12, humanized anti-CD20 and
    ADENTRI. In addition, in 2009, we initiated registrational
    trials in our PEGylated interferon program. The aforementioned
    increases were offset by a reduction of spending across several
    programs including baminercept in RA, lumiliximab and
    volociximab.

For 2008 compared to 2007, research and development expenses
    increased by $146.9 million, driven by an increase of
    $56.4 million related to the continued advancement of our
    pipeline into Phase 3 clinical trials. In 2008, we initiated a
    registrational trial in our lixivaptan program, a Phase 2 trial
    in our ADENTRI program, and continued to develop our BG-12,
    anti-CD80 MAb (galiximab) and anti-CD23 MAb (lumiliximab)
    programs. In 2008, we had 8 programs in Phase 3 clinical trials
    as compared to 5 in 2007. We also increased spending in our
    anti-CD20 programs in both Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials
    by $46.2 million primarily due to a $31.5 million
    opt-in payment to participate in the Roche-led GA101 program.
    The balance of the increase of $44.3 million was due to
    other research and development investments, primarily in our pre
    clinical and early stage pipeline programs including HSP90,
    BIIB014, BART and LINGO programs.

We expect total research and development expense in 2010 to be
    between 24% and 27% of total revenue.

43

Table of Contents   

Milestone
    and Upfront Payments   

Milestone and upfront payments made to our collaboration
    partners and included within research and development expense
    are summarized as follows:

For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase in milestone and
    upfront payments was primarily the result of the
    $110.0 million upfront payment made to Acorda.

Selling,
    General and Administrative  

Selling, general and administrative expenses are primarily
    comprised of compensation and benefits associated with sales and
    marketing, finance, legal and other administrative personnel,
    outside marketing and legal expenses and other general and
    administrative costs.

For 2009 compared to 2008, the decrease in selling, general and
    administrative expenses was primarily driven by the positive
    impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes and a reduction
    of expenses reimbursed to Elan for their marketing of TYSABRI
    for Crohn s disease in the U.S. These decreases were offset
    by costs incurred associated with our geographic expansion into
    new markets.

For 2008 compared to 2007, selling, general and administrative
    expenses increased primarily due to a $90.0 million
    increase in sales and marketing, of which $55.3 million
    related to international sales and marketing activities
    primarily for AVONEX and TYSABRI and $43.6 million related
    to an increase in compensation and benefits for general and
    administrative personnel as well as increases in fees and
    services.

We expect that selling, general and administrative expenses will
    increase in 2010 as compared to the total amount incurred in
    2009 primarily due to increased sales and marketing activities
    in support of AVONEX and TYSABRI. In addition, under the
    transition agreement entered into with James C. Mullen, we will
    incur approximately $21 million of expense in the first
    half of 2010 all of which relates to the modification of his
    existing equity based compensation awards. The substantial
    portion of this charge is due to the incremental value
    attributable to the extension of Mr. Mullen s stock option
    awards.

Collaboration
    Profit Sharing  

Payments are made to Elan for their share of the rest of world
    net operating profits to effect an equal sharing of
    collaboration operating profit. These payments include the
    reimbursement of our portion of third-party royalties that Elan
    pays on behalf of the collaboration, relating to sales in the
    rest of world. These amounts are reflected in the collaboration
    profit sharing line in our consolidated statements of income.
    Our collaboration profit sharing expense increases as rest of
    world sales of TYSABRI increase and is impacted by fluctuations
    in currency exchange rates.

For 2009 as compared to 2008, as well as for 2008 as compared to
    2007, the increases were due to the continued increase in
    TYSABRI rest of world sales resulting in a higher rest of world
    net operating profits to be shared with Elan and causing growth
    in the third-party royalties Elan paid on behalf of the
    collaboration.

44

Table of Contents   

For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our
    collaboration profit sharing expense included
    $40.0 million, $28.4 million and $9.1 million,
    respectively, related to the reimbursement of Elan s
    royalty payments.

Amortization
    of Acquired Intangible Assets  

Our most significant intangible asset is the core technology
    related to our AVONEX product. Our amortization policy reflects
    our belief that the economic benefit of our core technology is
    consumed as revenue is generated from our AVONEX product. We
    refer to this amortization methodology as the economic
    consumption model, which involves calculating a ratio of actual
    current period sales to total anticipated sales for the life of
    the product and applying this ratio to the carrying amount of
    the intangible asset. An analysis of the anticipated lifetime
    revenue of AVONEX is performed at least annually during our long
    range planning cycle, and this analysis serves as the basis for
    the calculation of our economic consumption amortization model.
    Although we believe this process has allowed us to reliably
    determine the best estimate of the pattern in which we will
    consume the economic benefits of our core technology intangible
    asset, the model could result in deferring amortization charges
    to future periods in certain instances, due to continued sales
    of the product at a nominal level after patent expiration or
    otherwise. In order to ensure that amortization charges are not
    unreasonably deferred to future periods, we compare the amount
    of amortization determined under the economic consumption model
    against the minimum amount of amortization recalculated each
    year under the straight-line method. Amortization is then
    recorded based upon the higher of the amount of amortization
    determined under the economic consumption model or the minimum
    amortization amount determined under the straight-line method.

We completed our most recent long range planning cycle in the
    third quarter of 2009. This analysis is based upon certain
    assumptions that we evaluate on a periodic basis, such as the
    anticipated product sales of AVONEX and expected impact of
    competitor products and our own pipeline product candidates, as
    well as the issuance of new patents or the extension of existing
    patents. Based on this analysis, we have continued to amortize
    this asset on the economic consumption model for the third and
    fourth quarters of 2009, and expect to apply the same model for
    the first two quarters in 2010. The results of our analysis were
    most significantly impacted by the issuance in September 2009 of
    a U.S. patent covering the treatment of MS with AVONEX, which
    resulted in an increase in the total expected lifetime revenue
    of AVONEX and an extension of the assumed remaining life of our
    core intangible asset.

As a result of these changes in the total expected lifetime
    revenues of AVONEX, amortization recorded for the third and
    fourth quarters of 2009 decreased significantly over their
    respective prior year comparative periods. Based upon this most
    recent analysis, amortization of intangible assets, included
    within our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009,
    is expected to be in the range of approximately $160.0 million
    to $220.0 million for each of the next five years.

For 2008 compared to 2007, the increase in amortization expense
    was primarily due to the changes in the estimate of the future
    total expected lifetime revenues of AVONEX that occurred as part
    of the annual reassessment of amortization expense in the third
    quarters of 2008 and 2007. The change in the estimate of the
    future revenue of AVONEX was attributable to the expected impact
    of competitor products, including the commercialization of our
    own pipeline product candidates.

Acquired
    In-Process Research and Development (IPR D)  

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting
    standard for business combinations, which changes the accounting
    treatment of acquired IPR D. For acquisitions occurring
    prior to January 1, 2009, we measured

45

Table of Contents   

acquired IPR D at fair value and expensed it on the
    acquisition date, or capitalized it as intangible assets if
    certain criteria were met. However, effective January 1,
    2009, acquired IPR D will be measured at fair value and
    capitalized as intangible assets and amortized from the date of
    completion over its estimated useful life. In addition, the
    acquired IPR D will be tested for impairment until
    completion of the acquired programs.

In 2008, we recorded an IPR D charge of $25.0 million
    related to a HSP90-related milestone payment made to the former
    shareholders of Conforma Therapeutics, Inc. (Conforma) pursuant
    to the terms of our acquisition of Conforma in 2006.

During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded
    IPR D charges of $84.2 million. The principal
    components of this amount are as follows:

$18.4 million related to the acquisition of Syntonix
    Pharmaceuticals (Syntonix);

$30.0 million related to the collaboration with Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC (Cardiokine); and

$34.3 million related to the collaboration with Neurimmune
    SubOne AG (Neurimmune).

Cardiokine and Neurimmune are variable interest entities as
    defined under the guidance set forth within the  Consolidation
     Topic of the Codification. The consolidation of these
    entities resulted in IPR D charges which have been recorded
    as a component of operating income. However, because the
    IPR D charges relate to the fair value of the underlying
    technology retained by the parent companies of Cardiokine and
    Neurimmune, these amounts were allocated to the respective
    noncontrolling interests.

We use discounted cash flow models to determine the fair values
    associated with acquired technologies. These models require the
    use of significant estimates and assumptions, which include but
    are not limited to an estimate of future cash flows from product
    sales resulting from completed and in-process products and the
    use of discount and probability rates on a project basis. Refer
    to  Valuation of Acquired Intangible Assets and In-process
    Research and Development Expenses  within  Critical
    Accounting Estimates  for additional discussion.

We believe that the discount rates utilized in our valuations
    are commensurate with the stage of development of these
    compounds and uncertainties in the economic estimates associated
    with each development relationship. The IPR D charge
    related to our collaboration with Neurimmune was determined
    based upon an estimate of revenues expected to be recognized
    beginning in 2018 related to the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody and a discount rate of 15%. The IPR D charge
    related to our collaboration with Cardiokine was determined
    assuming a discount rate of 11% and an estimate of revenues
    expected to be recognized beginning in 2012 for lixivaptan. The
    amount allocated to IPR D resulting from the acquisition of
    Syntonix relates to the development of long-acting recombinant
    Factor IX and long-acting recombinant Factor VIII assuming
    estimated revenues expected to be recognized beginning in 2012
    and 2013, respectively. A discount rate of 13% was used to value
    these projects.

In addition, in connection with the acquisition of Syntonix in
    January 2007, we agreed to make additional future consideration
    payments contingent upon the achievement of certain milestone
    events. In accordance with our acquisition agreement, we will
    make a $40.0 million milestone payment to the former
    shareholders of Syntonix during the first quarter of 2010. This
    amount will be recorded as a charge to IPR D in the first
    quarter of 2010.

Refer to Note 2,  Acquisitions and Dispositions  and
    Note 17,  Collaborations  to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional discussion.

Other
    Income (Expense), Net  

Components of other income (expense), net, are summarized as
    follows:

46

Table of Contents   

Interest
    Income   

For 2009 as compared to 2008, interest income decreased
    primarily due to lower yields on cash, cash equivalents, and
    marketable securities, offset by higher average cash balances.

For 2008 compared to 2007, interest income decreased primarily
    due to a reduction in cash and cash equivalents due to the
    funding of our tender offer in July 2007, a net payment of
    $525.5 million for our term loan facility and lower
    investment yields.

Interest
    Expense   

For 2009 as compared to 2008, interest expense decreased
    primarily due to decreased average debt balances. In addition in
    2009, approximately $5.4 million was recorded as a
    reduction of interest expense due to the amortization of the
    deferred gain associated with the termination of an interest
    rate swap in December 2008. This is further described in
    Note 8,  Derivative Instruments  to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

For 2008 compared to 2007, interest expense increased primarily
    due to an increased average debt balance as well as
    $8.9 million of expense incurred in 2008 due to the impact
    of hedge ineffectiveness as discussed in Note 8,
     Derivative Instruments  to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

We capitalized interest costs related to construction in
    progress totaling approximately $28.5 million,
    $23.2 million and $10.1 million in 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively, which were primarily related to the
    development of our large-scale biologic manufacturing facility
    in Hiller d, Denmark, which as a result reduced our
    interest expense by the same amount. We expect the amount of
    interest capitalized in relation to this facility will decrease
    in 2010.

Impairment
    on Investments   

In April 2009, we implemented newly issued accounting standards
    which provided guidance for recognition and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments. The adoption of this guidance did not have a
    material impact on our financial position or results of
    operations; however, this standard amended the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment model for marketable debt securities. The impairment
    model for equity securities was not affected. Refer to
    Note 7,  Financial Instruments  to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional information on the adoption
    of this guidance.

In 2009, we recognized impairment losses of $7.0 million on
    our publicly-held strategic investments and non-marketable
    securities and an additional $3.6 million in charges for
    the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on our marketable debt securities primarily related
    to mortgage and asset-backed securities.

In 2008, we recognized impairment losses of $18.6 million
    on our publicly-held strategic investments and non-marketable
    securities and an additional $41.7 million in impairment on
    our marketable debt securities primarily related to mortgage,
    asset-backed and corporate securities.

In 2007 we recognized impairment losses of $18.4 million on
    our publicly-held strategic investments and non-marketable
    securities and an additional $7.5 million in impairment on
    our marketable debt securities primarily related to mortgage and
    asset-backed securities.

We may incur additional impairment charges on these investments
    in the future.

47

Table of Contents   

Impairment
    on Property   

We own or lease real estate primarily consisting of buildings
    that contain research laboratories, office space, and biologic
    manufacturing operations, some of which are located in markets
    that are experiencing high vacancy rates and decreasing property
    values. If we decide to consolidate, co-locate or dispose of
    certain aspects of our business operations, for strategic or
    other operational reasons, we may dispose of one or more of our
    properties. Due to reduced expectations of product demand,
    improved yields on production and other factors, we may not
    fully utilize our manufacturing facilities at normal levels
    resulting in idle time at facilities or substantial excess
    manufacturing capacity. We are always evaluating our current
    strategy, as well as other alternatives, including whether to
    delay completion of the Denmark facility. If any of our owned
    properties are held for sale, or disposed of, we may not realize
    the full investment in these properties and incur significant
    impairment charges if the fair value of the properties were
    determined to be lower than their book value. In addition, if we
    decide to fully or partially vacate a leased property, we may
    incur significant cost, including lease termination fees, rent
    expense in excess of sublease income and impairment of leasehold
    improvements.

Income
    Tax Provision  

Tax
    Rate   

Our effective tax rate fluctuates from year to year due to the
    nature of our global operations. The factors that most
    significantly impact our effective tax rate include variability
    in the allocation of our taxable earnings between multiple
    jurisdictions, changes in tax laws, acquisitions and licensing
    transactions.

In 2009, our effective tax rate was impacted by the following
    significant items:

Tax impact from licensing transaction    During
    2009, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with
    Acorda. As there is no income tax benefit associated with either
    the $110.0 million upfront payment made to Acorda or our
    development spending on fampridine outside the U.S., these
    payments had a 2.1% unfavorable impact on our 2009 effective tax
    rate.

Tax impact from changes in tax laws    We
    established deferred tax assets and adjusted certain deferred
    tax liabilities, and adjusted our reserves for uncertain tax
    positions, due to changes in tax laws in certain states in which
    we operate. This had a favorable effect of 2.3% on our 2009
    effective tax rate.

Tax impact from resolution of tax audits    The
    resolution of federal, state and foreign tax audits resulted in
    reducing our reserves for several uncertain tax positions, which
    had a favorable effect of 2.1% on our 2009 effective tax rate.

Our effective tax rate in 2009 was lower than in 2008 due to the
    net effect of the three items noted above and a higher
    percentage of our foreign earnings being subject to
    U.S. income taxation in 2008. The effect of the allocation
    of earnings was partially offset by certain tax credits and
    deferred tax assets which will be realized as a result of our
    2008 domestic reorganization.

Our effective tax rate in 2008 was higher than 2007 primarily
    due to a reorganization of our international operations in 2008
    and the allocation of our earnings subject to U.S. taxation
    in each year.

The 2008 domestic and foreign reorganizations to our corporate
    structure involved the movement of certain personnel, operations
    and processes among our affiliates. Our effective tax rate will
    continue to be dependent on the allocation of our profits among
    jurisdictions and the percentage of our foreign earnings which
    are subject to taxation in the U.S.

We expect our 2010 effective tax rate to be between 28% and 30%.
    This rate does not consider the impact of a potential renewal of
    the federal research and development tax credit.

48

Table of Contents   

Financial
    Condition and Liquidity  

Our financial condition is summarized as follows:

For the year end December 31, 2009, certain significant
    cash flows were as follows:

Significant cash flow activities during 2008 included the net
    repayment of approximately $525.5 million of indebtedness,
    $738.9 million used to fund share repurchases, $222.8 used
    for the net purchases of marketable securities, and
    $276.0 million used to purchase property, plant and
    equipment offset by cash generated from operations of
    $1,562.4 million.

We have financed our operating and capital expenditures
    principally through cash flows from our operations. We expect to
    finance our current and planned operating requirements
    principally through cash from operations, as well as existing
    cash resources. We believe that existing funds, cash generated
    from operations and existing sources of, and access to,
    financing are adequate to satisfy our operating, working
    capital, strategic alliance and acquisition, milestone payments,
    capital expenditures and debt service requirements for the
    foreseeable future. In addition, we plan to opportunistically
    pursue our stock repurchase program and other business
    initiatives, including acquisition and licensing activities. We
    may, from time to time, seek additional funding through a
    combination of new collaborative agreements, strategic alliances
    and additional equity and debt financings or from other sources.

Please read the  Risk Factors  and  Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  sections of
    this report for items that could negatively impact our cash
    position and ability to fund future operations.

Share
    Repurchase Programs   

In October 2009, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock, with
    repurchased shares being retired. This repurchase program does
    not have an expiration date. As of December 31, 2009,
    approximately 8.8 million shares at a cost of
    $422.4 million were repurchased under this program, all of
    which were retired. From January 1, 2010 through February
    5, 2010, we repurchased approximately an additional
    5.4 million shares under this program at a total cost of
    approximately $289.4 million, all of which were also
    retired. Approximately $288.2 million remains available for
    the repurchase of our common stock under the 2009 program. The
    remaining shares that may be purchased under this program is
    subject to price fluctuations of our common stock.

49

Table of Contents   

In October 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common
    stock. This repurchase program was completed during the fourth
    quarter of 2009. During 2009, approximately 7.2 million
    shares of our common stock were repurchased for approximately
    $328.8 million under this program. During 2008,
    approximately 12.8 million shares of our common stock were
    repurchased for approximately $738.9 million under this
    program. We used the 2006 share repurchase program principally
    for share stabilization.

Cash,
    Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities   

Until required for use in the business, we invest our cash
    reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial
    paper, corporate notes, U.S. and foreign government
    instruments and other interest bearing marketable debt
    instruments in accordance with our investment policy. We attempt
    to mitigate credit risk in our cash reserves and marketable
    securities by maintaining a well diversified portfolio that
    limits the amount of investment exposure as to institution,
    maturity, and investment type. In particular, the value of our
    investments may be adversely affected by increases in interest
    rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds included in our
    portfolio, instability in the global financial markets that
    reduces the liquidity of securities included in our portfolio,
    and by other factors which may result in other-than-temporary
    declines in the value of the investments. Each of these events
    may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying value of
    our investment portfolio or sell investments for less than our
    acquisition cost which could adversely impact our financial
    position and our overall liquidity.

The increase in cash and marketable securities as of
    December 31, 2009 as compared to December 31, 2008 is
    primarily due to an increase in cash from operations and
    proceeds from the issuance of shares under our share-based
    compensation programs offset by purchases of property, plant and
    equipment, share repurchases, payments pursuant to our
    collaboration agreement with Acorda and other collaboration
    arrangements, and purchases of strategic investments.

Borrowings   

There have been no significant changes in our borrowings since
    December 31, 2008.

On March 4, 2008, we issued $450.0 million aggregate
    principal amount of 6.0% Senior Notes due March 1,
    2013 and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of
    6.875% Senior Notes due March 1, 2018 for proceeds of
    $987.0 million, net of issuance costs. The credit rating on
    these notes at December 31, 2009, was Baa3 with a stable
    outlook by Moody s Investors Service and BBB+ with a stable
    outlook by Standard   Poor s. Additionally, in
    connection with the issuance of these notes, we entered into
    interest rate swaps, which were terminated in December 2008 and
    are further described in Note 6,  Fair Value Measurements
     to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We used the
    proceeds of this offering, along with cash and the proceeds from
    the liquidation of marketable securities, to repay the
    $1,500.0 million term loan facility we had entered into in
    July 2007 in connection with the funding of our June 2007 stock
    repurchase tender offer.

In June 2007, we entered into a five year $400.0 million
    senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which we may use for
    future working capital and general corporate purposes. The
    bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 resulted in
    the elimination of their $40.0 million commitment, thereby
    reducing the availability of the credit facility to
    $360.0 million. The terms of this revolving credit facility
    include various covenants, including financial covenants that
    require us to not exceed a maximum leverage ratio and, under
    certain circumstances, an interest coverage ratio. As of
    December 31, 2009, and 2008 there were no borrowings under
    this credit facility and we were in compliance with applicable
    covenants.

Working
    Capital   

50

Table of Contents   

We define working capital as current assets less current
    liabilities. The increase in working capital primarily reflects
    the overall reduction of current liabilities by
    $208.3 million primarily driven by a $147.4 million
    reduction in balances attributable to taxes payable. The change
    in total current assets was negligible as increases in net
    receivable balances, inventory and other current assets were
    offset by decreases in cash and marketable and loaned securities.

Cash
    Flows   

Operating
    Activities  

Cash flows from operating activities represent the cash receipts
    and disbursements related to all of our activities other than
    investing and financing activities. Cash provided by operating
    activities is primarily driven by our earnings and changes in
    working capital. We expect cash provided from operating
    activities will continue to be our primary source of funds to
    finance operating needs and capital expenditures for the
    foreseeable future.

Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net income for:

Non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization,
    impairment charges and share-based compensation charges;

Changes in operating assets and liabilities which reflect timing
    differences between the receipt and payment of cash associated
    with transactions and when they are recognized in results of
    operations.

The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for 2009
    as compared to 2008 was primarily driven by change in other
    liabilities and taxes payable, primarily due to an increase in
    income tax payments of $373.4 million, primarily resulting
    from increased earnings and the settlement of various audits in
    2009, the $110.0 million upfront payment made to Acorda on
    July 1, 2009 and the payment of certain accrued expenses
    and other current liabilities.

The increase in cash from operating activities for 2008 as
    compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher earnings net of a
    higher investment in working capital and the proceeds received
    from the termination of the interest rate swap.

Investing
    Activities  

The increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2009
    compared to 2008 is primarily due to a decrease in collateral
    received under our securities lending program offset primarily
    by a decrease in net purchases of marketable securities and a
    reduction in purchases of property, plant and equipment. The
    decline in purchases of property, plant and equipment is
    primarily attributable to our Hiller d, Denmark
    manufacturing facility and certain other manufacturing upgrades
    which are near completion.

The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2008
    compared to 2007 is primarily due to an increase in net
    purchases of marketable securities, offset by cash proceeds from
    collateral received under securities lending.

In 2009, significant cash flows related to investing activities
    consisted primarily of net purchases of marketable securities of
    $229.1 million. Our other primary use of cash in investing
    activities consisted of the purchases of property, plant and
    equipment of $165.6 million.

In 2008, significant cash flows related to investing activities
    consisted of net purchases of marketable securities of
    $222.8 million and net purchases of property, plant and
    equipment totaling $276.0 million.

51

Table of Contents   

In 2007, net proceeds from sales of marketable securities of
    $209.0 million were used to partially fund our 2007 tender
    offer. Purchases of property, plant and equipment totaled
    $284.1 million in 2007. Payments made for acquisitions and
    collaborations were $95.8 million in 2007, which primarily
    related to our acquisition of Syntonix for $42.3 million
    and our collaboration payments to Cardiokine for
    $50.0 million and Neurimmune of $2.0 million. The
    change in balance of collateral received under securities
    lending is reflected as a use of cash in investing activities
    offset by a source of cash from financing activities.
    Additionally, in 2007 we sold our position in a strategic
    investment for $99.5 million.

Financing
    Activities  

The decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2009
    compared to 2008 is due, principally, to the repayment of our
    term loan facility of $1,500.0 million in 2008, offset by
    the issuance of our notes payable, a decrease in the amount of
    stock options exercised, and a decrease in obligations under our
    securities lending program.

The increase in cash used in financing activities in 2008 as
    compared to 2007 is due principally to a reduction in the net
    proceeds received from borrowings offset by an overall decrease
    in the amount of common stock repurchased.

In 2009, we repurchased approximately 16.0 million shares
    for $751.2 million under our 2009 and 2006 share
    repurchase programs.

The primary use of cash in 2008 was for the repayment of our
    term loan facility of $1,500.0 million and the repurchase
    of our common stock for $738.9 million, offset in part by
    the net proceeds of $987.0 million from the issuance of
    long-term debt and proceeds of $178.5 million from the
    issuance of shares under our share based compensation programs.

In 2007, the primary use of cash related to the repurchase of
    our common stock for $2,990.5 million by means of a tender
    offer. This repurchase was partially funded with cash proceeds
    from a short-term note of $1,500.0 million. Additionally,
    cash proceeds from the issuance of shares under our share based
    compensation programs were $489.2 million, which was
    attributable to the exercise of stock options and participation
    in our employee stock purchase plan. The change in balance of
    collateral received under securities lending is reflected as a
    use of cash in investing activities offset by a source of cash
    from financing activities.

Contractual
    Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Contractual
    Obligations   

The following summarizes our contractual obligations (excluding
    funding commitments, contingent milestone payments and other
    off-balance sheet arrangements as described below) as of
    December 31, 2009, and the effects such obligations are
    expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future
    periods:

(1)  

Includes fifteen-year lease on a 356,000 square foot office
    building in Weston, Massachusetts, which will serve as the
    future location of our general and administrative offices with a
    planned occupancy around mid-year 2010. The initial lease term
    is from 2010 through 2025 under which the total minimum lease
    payments are $258.6 million. 

(2)  

Notes payable and line of credit includes principal and interest
    payments. 

52

Table of Contents   

(3)  

Purchase obligations include our obligations of approximately
    $6.4 million pursuant to a dedicated resource agreement
    whereby a laboratory will provide us with dedicated services
    through 2010, $9.3 million related to the fair value of net
    liabilities on derivative contracts due in less than one year,
    approximately $12.0 million related to fixed obligations
    for the purchase of natural gas and $3.4 million in
    construction commitments related to our manufacturing facility
    in Hiller d, Denmark. 

The table above excludes tax payments totaling approximately
    $105.0 million to be made in the first half of 2010 related to
    the settlement of certain federal and state tax audits in 2009,
    and also excludes liabilities pertaining to uncertain tax
    positions as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period of
    cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. As of
    December 31, 2009, we have approximately $52.6 million
    of long-term liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions.

Funding
    Commitments   

As of December 31, 2009, we have funding commitments of up
    to approximately $24.8 million as part of our investment in
    biotechnology oriented venture capital funds.

As of December 31, 2009, we have several ongoing clinical
    trials. Our most significant clinical trial expenditures are to
    clinical research organizations (CROs). The contracts with CROs
    are generally cancellable, with notice, at our option. We have
    recorded accrued expenses of $31.7 million on our
    consolidated balance sheet for work done by CROs as of
    December 31, 2009. We have approximately
    $460.0 million in cancellable future commitments based on
    existing CRO contracts as of December 31, 2009 which are
    not included in the contractual obligations table above as they
    are cancellable.

Contingent
    Milestone Payments   

Based on our development plans as of December 31, 2009, we
    have committed to make potential future milestone payments to
    third parties of up to approximately $1,500.0 million as
    part of our various collaborations, including licensing and
    development programs. Payments under these agreements generally
    become due and payable only upon achievement of certain
    developmental, regulatory or commercial milestones. Because the
    achievement of these milestones had not occurred as of
    December 31, 2009, such contingencies have not been
    recorded in our financial statements. We anticipate that we may
    pay approximately $82.0 million of milestone payments in
    2010, provided various developmental, regulatory or commercial
    milestones are achieved.

Amounts related to contingent milestone payments are not
    included in the contractual obligations table above as they are
    contingent on the successful achievement of certain development,
    regulatory approval and commercial milestones. These milestones
    may not be achieved.

Other
    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

We do not have any significant relationships with entities often
    referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities
    which would have been established for the purpose of
    facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not
    exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that
    could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. We
    consolidate entities if we are the primary beneficiary.

Legal
    Matters  

Please read Note 19,  Litigation  to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a discussion of legal matters as of
    December 31, 2009.

Critical
    Accounting Estimates  

The discussion and analysis of our financial position and
    results of operations is based on our consolidated financial
    statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
    (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated
    financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires
    us to make estimates and judgments that may affect the reported
    amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and
    related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an
    ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments,
    including those related to revenue recognition and related
    allowances, marketable

53

Table of Contents   

securities, derivatives and hedging activities, inventory,
    impairments of long-lived assets including intangible assets,
    impairments of goodwill, income taxes including the valuation
    allowance for deferred tax assets, valuation of investments,
    research and development expenses, contingencies and litigation,
    and share-based payments. We base our estimates on historical
    experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are
    reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making
    judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
    Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
    assumptions or conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting estimates affect
    our more significant estimates and judgments used in the
    preparation of our consolidated financial statements:

Revenue recognition;

Collaborative relationships;

Clinical trial expenses;

Consolidation of variable interest entities;

Inventory;

Investments;

Impairment of financial instruments;

Impairment of long-lived assets including goodwill;

Valuation of acquired intangible assets and IPR 

Share-based compensation;

Income taxes; and

Contingencies.

Revenue
    Recognition   

We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met:
    persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery of
    product has occurred or services have been rendered; the
    seller s price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and
    collectibility is reasonably assured.

Product
    Revenues  

Revenues from product sales are recognized when title and risk
    of loss have passed to the customer, which is typically upon
    delivery. However, sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. are
    recognized on the  sell-through  model, that is, upon
    shipment of the product by Elan to its third party distributor
    rather than upon shipment to Elan. The timing of distributor
    orders and shipments can cause variability in earnings.

Reserves
    for Discounts and Allowances  

Revenues are recorded net of applicable reserves for trade term
    discounts, wholesaler incentives, Medicaid rebates, VA rebates,
    managed care rebates, product returns and other applicable
    allowances. Our product revenue reserves are based on estimates
    of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales.
    These estimates take into consideration our historical
    experience, current contractual and statutory requirements,
    specific known market events and trends and forecasted customer
    buying patterns. If actual results vary, we may need to adjust
    these estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the
    period of the adjustment. The estimates we make with respect to
    these allowances represent the most significant judgments with
    regard to revenue recognition.

Royalty
    Revenues  

We receive royalty revenues under license agreements with a
    number of third parties that sell products based on technology
    we have developed or to which we own rights. The license
    agreements provide for the payment of royalties to us based on
    sales of these licensed products. There are no future
    performance obligations on our part

54

Table of Contents   

under these license agreements. We record these revenues based
    on estimates of the sales that occurred during the relevant
    period. The relevant period estimates of sales are based on
    interim data provided by licensees and analysis of historical
    royalties that have been paid to us, adjusted for any changes in
    facts and circumstances, as appropriate. We maintain regular
    communication with our licensees in order to assess the
    reasonableness of our estimates. Differences between actual
    royalty revenues and estimated royalty revenues are adjusted for
    in the period in which they become known, typically the
    following quarter. Historically, adjustments have not been
    material when compared to actual amounts paid by licensees. To
    the extent we do not have sufficient ability to accurately
    estimate revenues; we record such revenues on a cash basis.

Revenue
    Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables  

In October 2009 a new accounting standard for the recognition of
    revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables was issued. This
    standard provides accounting principles and application guidance
    on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the arrangement
    should be separated, and how the consideration should be
    allocated. This new approach is effective prospectively for
    revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in
    fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. While we
    do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material
    impact on our financial position and results of operations, this
    standard may impact us in the event we complete future
    transactions or modify existing collaborative relationships.
    Refer to Note 23,  New Accounting Pronouncements  to
    our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion
    of this standard and its impact on us.

Collaborative
    Relationships   

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a newly issued
    accounting standard for the accounting and disclosure of an
    entity s collaborative arrangements. This newly issued
    standard prescribes that certain transactions between
    collaborators be recorded in the income statement on either a
    gross or net basis, depending on the characteristics of the
    collaboration relationship. In accordance with this guidance, we
    must also evaluate our collaborative agreements for proper
    income statement classification based on the nature of the
    underlying activity. Amounts due from our collaborative partners
    related to development activities are generally reflected as a
    reduction of research and development expense because the
    performance of contract development services is not central to
    our operations. For collaborations with commercialized products,
    if we are the principal we record revenue and the corresponding
    operating costs in their respective line items within our
    consolidated statements of income. If we are not the principal,
    we record operating costs as a reduction of revenue. The
     Revenue Recognition  Topic of the Codification describes
    the principal as the party who is responsible for delivering the
    product or service to the customer, has latitude to determine
    price, and has the risks and rewards of providing product or
    service to the customer, including inventory and credit risk.

As discussed within Note 17,  Collaborations  to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements, Genentech incurs the majority
    of continuing development cost for RITUXAN. Expenses incurred by
    Genentech in the development of RITUXAN are not recorded as
    research and development expense, but rather reduce our share of
    co-promotion profits recorded as a component of unconsolidated
    joint business revenue.

Clinical
    Trial Expenses   

Clinical trial expenses include expenses associated with CROs.
    The invoicing from CROs for services rendered can lag several
    months. We accrue the cost of services rendered in connection
    with CRO activities based on our estimate of site management,
    monitoring costs, and project management costs. We maintain
    regular communication with our CROs to gauge the reasonableness
    of our estimates. Differences between actual clinical trial
    expenses and estimated clinical trial expenses recorded have not
    been material and are adjusted for in the period in which they
    become known.

Consolidation
    of Variable Interest Entities   

We consolidate variable interest entities in which we are the
    primary beneficiary. For such consolidated entities where we own
    less than a 100% interest, we record noncontrolling interest in
    our statement of income for the current results allocated to the
    third party equity interests. In determining whether we are the
    primary beneficiary, we consider a number of factors, including
    determining the expected losses and residual returns of the
    technologies being developed pursuant to collaborations and
    other economic risk and reward of such collaborations.

55

Table of Contents   

Discounted cash flow models are typically used in these analyses
    and these models require the use of significant estimates and
    assumptions including but not limited to:

assuming that the research and development efforts will result
    in an approved commercial product;

estimating the timing of and expected costs to complete the
    in-process projects;

projecting timing of regulatory approvals;

estimating future cash inflows from product sales or funding
    from partners resulting from completed products and in-process
    projects; and

developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by
    project.

These factors affect the way we account for certain
    collaborations. Future events may result in our consolidation of
    companies or related entities with which we have a collaborative
    arrangement. The consolidation of variable interest entities may
    have a material effect on our financial condition and results of
    operation in future periods.

Effective January 1, 2010, a new accounting standard will
    amend previously issued accounting guidance for the
    consolidation of variable interest entities and will affect how
    an enterprise determines whether its variable interest or
    interests give it a controlling financial interest in a variable
    interest entity. This new standard may affect how we account for
    the consolidation of common structures, such as joint ventures,
    equity method investments, collaboration and other agreements
    and purchase arrangements. Under this revised guidance, the
    determination about whether an enterprise should consolidate a
    variable interest entity is required to be evaluated
    continuously. Refer to Note 23,  New Accounting
    Pronouncements  to our Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional discussion of this standard and its impact on us.

Inventory   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost
    determined under the
     first-in, 
    first-out (FIFO) method. Included in inventory are raw materials
    used in the production of pre-clinical and clinical products,
    which are expensed as research and development costs when
    consumed.

Capitalization
    of Inventory Costs  

Our policy is to capitalize inventory costs associated with our
    products prior to regulatory approval, when, based on
    management s judgment, future commercialization is
    considered probable and the future economic benefit is expected
    to be realized. We consider numerous attributes in evaluating
    whether the costs to manufacture a particular product should be
    capitalized as an asset. We assess the regulatory approval
    process and where the particular product stands in relation to
    that approval process, including any known constraints and
    impediments to approval, including safety, efficacy and
    potential labeling restrictions. We evaluate our anticipated
    research and development initiatives and constraints relating to
    the product and the indication in which it will be used. We
    consider our manufacturing environment including our supply
    chain in determining logistical constraints that could hamper
    approval or commercialization. We consider the shelf life of the
    product in relation to the expected timeline for approval and we
    consider patent related or contract issues that may prevent or
    cause delay in commercialization. We are sensitive to the
    significant commitment of capital to scale up production and to
    launch commercialization strategies. We also base our judgment
    on the viability of commercialization, trends in the marketplace
    and market acceptance criteria. Finally, we consider the
    reimbursement strategies that may prevail with respect to the
    product and assess the economic benefit that we are likely to
    realize.

We expense previously capitalized costs related to pre-approval
    inventory upon a change in such judgment, due to, among other
    potential factors, a denial or delay of approval by necessary
    regulatory bodies. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
    carrying value of our inventory did not include any costs
    associated with products that had not yet received regulatory
    approval.

There is a risk inherent in these judgments and any changes we
    make in these judgments may have a material impact on our
    results in future periods.

56

Table of Contents   

Obsolescence
    and Unmarketable Inventory  

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value. If the actual
    net realizable value is less than that estimated by us, or if it
    is determined that inventory utilization will further diminish
    based on estimates of demand, additional inventory write-downs
    may be required. Additionally, our products are subject to
    strict quality control and monitoring which we perform
    throughout the manufacturing process. In the event that certain
    batches or units of product no longer meet quality
    specifications or become obsolete due to expiration, we will
    record a charge to cost of sales to write-down any obsolete or
    otherwise unmarketable inventory to its estimated net realizable
    value. In all cases product inventory is carried at the lower of
    cost or its estimated net realizable value.

Investments   

We invest in various types of securities, including:

short-term and long-term marketable securities, principally
    corporate notes, government securities including government
    sponsored enterprise mortgage-backed securities and credit card
    and auto loan asset-backed securities, in which our excess cash
    balances are invested;

equity securities in certain publicly-traded biotechnology
    companies, some of which have collaborative agreements with us;

equity securities of certain companies whose securities are not
    publicly traded and where fair value is not readily
    available; and

investment in biotechnology oriented venture capital funds where
    fair value is not readily available.

These investments are accounted for in accordance with
    accounting standards for certain investments in debt and equity
    securities.

We monitor the financial performance of our portfolio of
    investments which are subject to concentration limits set within
    our investment policy to help mitigate and limit the amount of
    investment exposure as to institution, maturity and investment
    type. The objectives of this policy are safety of principal,
    liquidity and yield.

In accordance with the accounting standard for fair value
    measurements we have classified our financial assets and
    liabilities as Level 1, 2 or 3 within the fair value
    hierarchy. Fair values determined by Level 1 inputs utilize
    quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
    assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access. Fair
    values determined by Level 2 inputs utilize data points
    that are observable such as quoted prices, interest rates and
    yield curves. Fair values determined by Level 3 inputs
    utilize unobservable data points for the asset or liability.

As noted in Note 6,  Fair Value Measurements  to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements, a majority of our financial
    assets and liabilities have been classified as Level 2.
    These assets and liabilities have been initially valued at the
    transaction price and subsequently valued utilizing third party
    pricing services. The pricing services use many observable
    market inputs to determine value, including reportable trades,
    benchmark yields, credit spreads, broker/dealer quotes, bids,
    offers, current spot rates and other industry and economic
    events. We validate the prices provided by our third party
    pricing services by understanding the models used, obtaining
    market values from other pricing sources, analyzing pricing data
    in certain instances and confirming those securities trade in
    active markets.

We also have some investments classified as Level 3 whose
    fair value is initially measured at transaction prices and
    subsequently valued using the pricing of recent financing or by
    reviewing the underlying economic fundamentals and liquidation
    value of the companies. We apply judgments and estimates when we
    validate the prices provided by third parties. While we believe
    the valuation methodologies are appropriate, the use of
    valuation methodologies is highly judgmental and changes in
    methodologies can have a material impact on our results of
    operations.

57

Table of Contents   

Impairment
    of Financial Instruments   

Other-than-Temporary 
    Impairments  

In April 2009, we implemented newly issued accounting standards
    which provide guidance for the recognition, measurement and
    presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments. This newly issued standard amended the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment model for debt securities and requires additional
    disclosures regarding the calculation of credit losses and the
    factors considered in reaching a conclusion that an investment
    is not
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired. The impairment model for equity securities was not
    affected.

Prior to our adoption of these new accounting standards in April
    2009, we recognized all
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment amounts related to our debt securities in earnings as
    required under the previously effective guidance which required
    that management assert that it had the ability and intent to
    hold a debt security until maturity or until we recovered the
    cost of our investment. Under the new accounting standards, an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment must be recognized through earnings if an investor
    has the intent to sell the debt security or if it is more likely
    than not that the investor will be required to sell the debt
    security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. However,
    even if an investor does not expect to sell a debt security,
    expected cash flows to be received must be evaluated to
    determine if a credit loss has occurred. In the event of a
    credit loss, only the amount associated with the credit loss is
    recognized in income. The amount of losses relating to other
    factors, including those resulting from changes in interest
    rates, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.
    The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on
    our financial position or results of operations.

Evaluating
    Investments for
     Other-than-Temporary 
    Impairments  

We conduct periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each
    investment that has an unrealized loss, in accordance with the
    meaning of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment and its application to certain investments, as
    required under the  Investment for Debt and Equity Securities
     Topic of the Codification. An unrealized loss exists when
    the current fair value of an individual security is less than
    its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses on
     available-for-sale 
    securities that are determined to be temporary, and not related
    to credit loss, are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other
    comprehensive income.

For
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities with unrealized losses, management performs an
    analysis to assess whether we intend to sell or whether we would
    more likely than not be required to sell the security before the
    expected recovery of the amortized cost basis. Where we intend
    to sell a security, or may be required to do so, the
    security s decline in fair value is deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and the full amount of the unrealized loss is recorded within
    earnings as an impairment loss.

Regardless of our intent to sell a security, we perform
    additional analysis on all securities with unrealized losses to
    evaluate losses associated with the creditworthiness of the
    security. Credit losses are identified where we do not expect to
    receive cash flows sufficient to recover the amortized cost
    basis of a security.

For equity securities, when assessing whether a decline in fair
    value below our cost basis is
     other-than-temporary, 
    we consider the fair market value of the security, the duration
    of the security s decline, and the financial condition of
    the issuer. We then consider our intent and ability to hold the
    equity security for a period of time sufficient to recover our
    carrying value. Where we have determined that we lack the intent
    and ability to hold an equity security to its expected recovery,
    the security s decline in fair value is deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and is recorded within earnings as an impairment loss.

Impairment
    of Long-lived Assets including Goodwill   

Long-lived
    Assets Other than Goodwill  

We periodically evaluate whether current facts or circumstances
    indicate that the carrying value of our long-lived assets to be
    held and used, including property plant and equipment, as well
    as intangible assets, whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets
    may not be recoverable. Factors we consider that could indicate
    a change in circumstances include, but are not limited to:

a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset;

58

Table of Contents   

a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an
    asset is used;

a significant adverse change or development in strategy or
    operations that negatively impact the utilization of our
    long-lived assets;

a significant change in industry or economic trends;

significant underperformance of the asset in relation to
    historical or projected future operating results;

If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of
    undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-lived asset,
    including its eventual residual value, is compared to the
    carrying value to determine whether impairment exists. In the
    event that such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to
    recover the carrying amount of the assets, the assets are
    written-down to their estimated fair values.

Determining whether impairment has occurred typically requires
    various estimates and assumptions, including determining which
    undiscounted cash flows are directly related to the potentially
    impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows will
    occur, their amount, and the asset s residual value, if
    any. We derive the required undiscounted cash flow estimates
    from our historical experience and our internal business plans.

We did not recognize an impairment charge related to our
    long-lived assets, other than goodwill, during 2009, 2008 and
    2007.

Goodwill  

We assess our goodwill balance within our single reporting unit
    annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable
    in accordance with the  Intangibles-Goodwill and Other
     Topic of the Codification to determine whether any
    impairment in this asset may exist and, if so, the extent of
    such impairment. The provisions of this guidance require that we
    perform a two-step impairment test. In the first step, we
    compare the fair value of our reporting unit to its carrying
    value. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to our
    reporting unit exceeds the fair value of our reporting unit,
    then the second step of the impairment test is performed in
    order to determine the implied fair value of our reporting
    unit s goodwill. If the carrying value of our reporting
    unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the
    company records an impairment loss equal to the difference.

We calculate the fair value of our reporting unit utilizing both
    an income approach and a market approach. The income approach
    utilizes a discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios
    for future growth. The discount is calculated based on our cost
    of capital rate. The market approach utilizes revenue and other
    metrics from similar publicly traded companies. The results of
    both fair value calculations are then compared to our reporting
    unit s carrying value. We completed our required annual
    impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2009, 2008 and 2007 and
    determined in each of those periods that the carrying value of
    goodwill was not impaired. In each year, the fair value of our
    reporting unit, which includes goodwill, was significantly in
    excess of the carry value of our reporting unit.

The determination of the fair value of a reporting unit is
    judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant
    estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions used in
    calculating fair value include identifying future cash flows,
    which requires that we make a number of critical legal,
    economic, market and business assumptions that reflect our best
    estimates as of the testing date. We believe the methods we use
    to determine these underlying assumptions and estimates are
    reasonable. Our assumptions and estimates may differ
    significantly from actual results, or circumstances could change
    that would cause us to conclude that an impairment now exists or
    that we previously understated the extent of impairment.

Valuation
    of Acquired Intangible Assets and In-process Research and
    Development Expenses   

We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, intangible
    assets primarily through the acquisition of biotechnology
    companies. These intangible assets primarily consist of
    technology associated with human therapeutic products and
    in-process product candidates. When significant identifiable
    intangible assets are acquired, we generally engage an
    independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining
    the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date.
    Management will determine the fair value of less significant
    identifiable intangible assets

59

Table of Contents   

acquired. Discounted cash flow models are typically used in
    these valuations, and these models require the use of
    significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited
    to:

estimating the timing of and expected costs to complete the
    in-process projects;

projecting regulatory approvals;

estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from
    completed products and in-process projects; and

developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by
    project.

We believe the fair values assigned to the intangible assets
    acquired are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions
    given available facts and circumstances as of the acquisition
    dates.

If these projects are not successfully developed, the sales and
    profitability of the company may be adversely affected in future
    periods. Additionally, the value of the acquired intangible
    assets may become impaired. We believe that the foregoing
    assumptions used in the IPR D analysis were reasonable at
    the time of the respective acquisition. No assurance can be
    given, however, that the underlying assumptions used to estimate
    expected project sales, development costs or profitability, or
    the events associated with such projects, will transpire as
    estimated.

We account for business combinations completed on or after
    January 1, 2009 in accordance with the revised guidance for
    accounting for business combinations, which modifies the
    criteria that must be met to qualify as a business combination
    and prescribes new accounting requirements, including the
    accounting treatment associated with acquired IPR D. Before
    January 1, 2009 we measured acquired IPR D at fair
    value and expensed it on the acquisition date, or capitalized it
    as intangible assets if certain criteria were met. Effective
    January 1, 2009, acquired IPR D is measured at fair
    value and capitalized as intangible assets and tested for
    impairment until completion of programs and amortized from the
    date of completion over its estimated useful life.

Share-based
    Compensation   

We make certain assumptions in order to value and expense our
    share-based compensation. In connection with valuing stock
    options and our employee stock purchase plan, we use the
    Black-Scholes model, which requires us to estimate certain
    subjective assumptions. The key assumptions we make are: the
    expected volatility of our stock; the expected term of the
    award; and the expected forfeiture rate. In connection with our
    restricted stock programs, we make assumptions principally
    related to the forfeiture rate. In addition, for our
    performance-vested restricted stock programs, we estimate the
    performance factor each period end in order to estimate the
    actual number of shares that will be earned. For example,
    performance-vested restricted stock programs are usually based
    on company performance metrics such as annual revenue and
    earnings per share. Thus, during the performance period, we
    estimate our full year revenue and earnings per share and then
    adjust the performance factor after the completion of the full
    year.

We review our valuation assumptions periodically and, as a
    result, we may change our valuation assumptions used to value
    share-based awards granted in future periods. Such changes may
    lead to a significant change in the expense we recognize in
    connection with share-based payments.

New forms of equity awards are expected to be granted to certain
    employees beginning in 2010: restricted stock units which will
    vest based on market conditions and performance-vested
    restricted stock units which will be settled in cash. The market
    based awards require the use of a binomial model or Monte Carlo
    simulation for valuation at grant date and include key
    assumptions such as the expected market price of the
    company s stock on the vest date and the expected number of
    vested shares. The cash settled awards will be marked to market
    at each period end with fluctuations in value reported through
    earnings. We will apply forfeiture rate assumptions similar to
    those utilized by us when accounting for our other share-based
    compensation programs.

Income
    Taxes   

In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate
    our income tax liability in each of the jurisdictions in which
    we operate by estimating our actual current tax expense together
    with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing
    treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes.
    These differences

60

Table of Contents   

result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are
    included in our consolidated balance sheets. Significant
    management judgment is required in assessing the realizability
    of our deferred tax assets. In performing this assessment, we
    consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or
    all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The
    ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon
    the generation of future taxable income during the periods in
    which those temporary differences become deductible. In making
    this determination, under the applicable financial accounting
    standards, we are allowed to consider the scheduled reversal of
    deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and
    the effects of tax planning strategies. Our estimates of future
    taxable income include, among other items, our estimates of
    future income tax deductions related to the exercise of stock
    options. In the event that actual results differ from our
    estimates, we adjust our estimates in future periods and we may
    need to establish a valuation allowance, which could materially
    impact our financial position and results of operations.

We account for uncertain tax positions using a
     more-likely-than-not  threshold for recognizing and
    resolving uncertain tax positions. The evaluation of uncertain
    tax positions is based on factors that include, but are not
    limited to, changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions
    taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, the effective
    settlement of matters subject to audit, new audit activity and
    changes in facts or circumstances related to a tax position. We
    evaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and adjust
    the level of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in
    the relevant facts surrounding the uncertain positions. Our
    liabilities for uncertain tax positions can be relieved only if
    the contingency becomes legally extinguished through either
    payment to the taxing authority or the expiration of the statute
    of limitations, the recognition of the benefits associated with
    the position meet the  more-likely-than-not  threshold
    or the liability becomes effectively settled through the
    examination process. We consider matters to be effectively
    settled once the taxing authority has completed all of its
    required or expected examination procedures, including all
    appeals and administrative reviews; we have no plans to appeal
    or litigate any aspect of the tax position; and we believe that
    it is highly unlikely that the taxing authority would examine or
    re-examine the related tax position. We also accrue for
    potential interest and penalties, related to unrecognized tax
    benefits in income tax expense.

Contingencies   

We are currently involved in various claims and legal
    proceedings. On a quarterly basis, we review the status of each
    significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure.
    If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is
    considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated,
    we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant
    judgment is required in both the determination of probability
    and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably
    estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters,
    accruals are based only on the best information available at the
    time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess
    the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation
    and may revise our estimates. These revisions in the estimates
    of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our
    consolidated results of operations and financial position.

New
    Accounting Standards  

Please read Note 23,  New Accounting Pronouncements
     to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
    new accounting standards.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

We have operations in Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, New
    Zealand, Japan, China, and India and throughout Europe in
    connection with the sale of AVONEX and TYSABRI and in Germany in
    connection with the sale of FUMADERM. We also receive royalty
    revenues based on worldwide product sales by our licensees and
    through Genentech on sales of RITUXAN in the rest of world. As a
    result, our financial position, results of operations and cash
    flows can be affected by market fluctuations in foreign exchange
    rates, primarily with respect to the Euro, Danish kroner,
    Swedish krona, British pound, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar and
    Swiss franc.

We use foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign
    currency risk but do not engage in currency speculation. The
    majority of our forward contracts are used to hedge certain
    forecasted revenue transactions

61

Table of Contents   

denominated in foreign currencies. We also use forward contracts
    to mitigate the foreign currency exposure related to certain
    balance sheet items. We have not elected hedge accounting for
    the balance sheet related items.

The following quantitative information includes the impact of
    currency movements on forward contracts used in both programs.
    As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, a hypothetical adverse
    10% movement in foreign exchange rates compared to the
    U.S. dollar across all maturities (for example, a
    strengthening of the Euro) would result in a hypothetical
    decrease in the fair value of forward contracts of approximately
    $64.4 million and $52.4 million, respectively. Our use
    of this methodology to quantify the market risk of such
    instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of its
    accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. The
    quantitative information about market risk is limited because it
    does not take into account all foreign currency operating
    transactions.

Certain of our debt instruments are variable rate instruments
    and our interest expense associated with these instruments is,
    therefore, subject to changes in market interest rates. As of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, a 100 basis-point adverse
    movement (increase in LIBOR) would increase annual interest
    expense by approximately $0.2 million in each period.

In addition, the fair value of our marketable securities is
    subject to change as a result of potential changes in market
    interest rates. The potential change in fair value for interest
    rate sensitive instruments has been assessed on a hypothetical
    100 basis point adverse movement across all maturities. As
    of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we estimate that such
    hypothetical adverse 100 basis point movement would result
    in a hypothetical loss in fair value of approximately
    $16.9 million and $12.2 million, respectively, to our
    interest rate sensitive instruments.

The returns from cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities will vary as short-term interest rates change. A 100
    basis-point adverse movement (decrease) in short-term interest
    rates would decrease interest income by approximately
    $12.5 million and $11.9 million as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

We are exposed to equity price risks on the marketable portion
    of equity securities included in our portfolio of investments
    entered into for the promotion of business and strategic
    objectives. These investments are generally in small
    capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. We
    regularly review the market prices of these investments for
    impairment purposes. A hypothetical adverse 10% movement in
    market values would result in a hypothetical loss in fair value
    of approximately $1.0 million and $0.9 million as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Item 8.      

Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

The information required by this Item 8 is contained on
    pages F-1 through F-65 of this report and is incorporated herein
    by reference.

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting  

Controls
    and Procedures   

We have carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and
    with the participation of our management, including our
    principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of
    the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), as of
    December 31, 2009. Based upon that evaluation, our
    principal executive officer and principal financial officer
    concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this
    report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in
    ensuring that (a) the information required to be disclosed
    by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities
    Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
    within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and
    forms, and (b) such information is accumulated and
    communicated to our management, including our principal
    executive officer and principal financial officer, as
    appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
    disclosure. In designing and evaluating our disclosure

62

Table of Contents   

controls and procedures, our management recognized that any
    controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and
    operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the
    desired control objectives, and our management necessarily was
    required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit
    relationship of possible controls and procedures.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

There were no changes in our internal control over financial
    reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 that
    have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management s
    Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting   

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over our financial reporting. Internal
    control over financial reporting is defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act as a process designed by, or
    under the supervision of, a company s principal executive
    and principal financial officers and effected by a
    company s board of directors, management and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the
    U.S. (U.S. GAAP). Our internal control over financial
    reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
    detail, accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and
    dispositions of our assets;

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with U.S. GAAP, and that our receipts and
    expenditures are being made only in accordance with
    authorizations of our management and directors; and

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our
    assets that could have a material effect on our financial
    statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009.
    In making this assessment, management used the criteria set
    forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework.

Based on our assessment, our management has concluded that, as
    of December 31, 2009, our internal control over financial
    reporting is effective based on those criteria.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2009 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included
    herein.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

63

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information concerning our executive officers is set forth
    under the heading  Our Executive Officers  in
    Part I of this report. The text of our code of business
    conduct, which includes the code of ethics that applies to our
    principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
    principal accounting officer or controller, and persons
    performing similar functions, is posted on our website,
    www.biogenidec.com, under the  Board of
    Directors   Corporate Governance  subsection of
    the  About Us  section of the site. Disclosure
    regarding any amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of our
    code of business conduct, if required, will be included in a
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    within four business days following the date of the amendment or
    waiver, unless website posting of such amendments or waivers is
    permitted by the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. Our
    corporate governance principles (also posted on
    www.biogenidec.com) prohibit our Board of Directors from
    granting any waiver of the code of ethics for any of our
    directors or executive officers. We include our website address
    in this report only as an inactive textual reference and do not
    intend it to be an active link to our website.

The response to the remainder of this item is incorporated by
    reference from the discussion responsive thereto in the sections
    entitled  Proposal 1, Election of Directors, 
     Stock Ownership   Section 16(a)
    Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and
     Miscellaneous   Stockholder Proposals 
    contained in the proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of
    stockholders.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections entitled
     Executive Compensation and Related Information  and
     Proposal 1, Election of Directors  
    Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
    Participation  contained in the proxy statement for our
    2010 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections entitled
     Stock Ownership  and  Disclosure with Respect to
    our Equity Compensation Plans  contained in the proxy
    statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections entitled
     Certain Relationships and Related Person
    Transactions  and  Proposal 1, Election of
    Directors   Director Independence  contained in
    the proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the section entitled
     Proposal 2, Ratification of the Selection of our
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  contained in
    the proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders.

64

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules   

a. (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements: 

The financial statements required to be filed by Item 8 of
    this report and filed in this Item 15, are as follows:

Financial Statements 

Page Number 

Consolidated Statements of Income

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-64

(2)  Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or are
    not required, or because the information is included in the
    consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

(3)  Exhibits: 

The exhibits which are filed or furnished with this report or
    which are incorporated herein by reference are set forth in the
    Exhibit Index beginning on
     page A-1, 
    which is incorporated herein by reference.

65

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

BIOGEN IDEC INC.

By: 

/s/   James
    C. Mullen 

James C. Mullen

Chief Executive Officer and President

Date: February 9, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Name 

Capacity 

Date 

/s/   James
    C. Mullen 

James
    C. Mullen

Director, Chief Executive Officer and President (principal
    executive officer)

February 9, 2010

/s/   Paul
    J. Clancy 

Paul
    J. Clancy

Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer
    (principal financial officer)

February 9, 2010

/s/   Michael
    F. MacLean 

Michael
    F. MacLean

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal
    accounting officer)

February 9, 2010

/s/   William
    D. Young 

William
    D. Young

Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors

February 9, 2010

/s/   Alexander
    J. Denner 

Alexander
    J. Denner

Director

February 9, 2010

/s/   Caroline
    D. Dorsa 

Caroline
    D. Dorsa

Director

February 9, 2010

/s/   Nancy
    L. Leaming 

Nancy
    L. Leaming

Director

February 9, 2010

Richard
    C. Mulligan

Director

/s/   Robert
    W. Pangia 

Robert
    W. Pangia

Director

February 9, 2010

/s/   Stelios
    Papadopoulos 

Stelios
    Papadopoulos

Director

February 9, 2010

66

Table of Contents   

67

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Page 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders 
    Equity 

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-7

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

F-64

F-1

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
     (In thousands, except per share amounts)   

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-2

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS 
     (In thousands, except per share amounts)   

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
     (In thousands)   

See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
     to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
    non-cash securities lending activities that occurred during the
    period.

See Note 14,  Other Consolidated Financial Statement
    Detail  to our Consolidated Financial Statements for
    discussion of a non monetary transaction under which we sold the
    development rights on a parcel of land in Cambridge, MA during
    2008.

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
       
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY  

(In thousands) 

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
       
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY   (Continued) 
        (In
    thousands)  

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

1.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Basis
    of Presentation   

Consolidation  

Biogen Idec Inc. ( Biogen Idec,   we, 
     us  or  the Company ) is a global
    biotechnology company that creates new standards of care in
    therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Our
    consolidated financial statements reflect our financial
    statements, those of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, certain
    variable interest entities in which we are the primary
    beneficiary and those of our joint ventures in Italy and
    Switzerland, Biogen Domp  SRL and Biogen Domp 
    Switzerland GmbH, respectively. For such consolidated entities
    in which we own less than a 100% interest, we record net income
    (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest in our
    consolidated statements of income equal to the percentage of the
    interest retained in the collaborative arrangement by the
    respective noncontrolling parties. All material intercompany
    balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary, we
    consider a number of factors, including determining the expected
    losses and residual returns of the technologies being developed
    pursuant to collaborations and other economic risk and reward of
    such collaborations; these considerations impact the way we
    account for our existing collaborative relationships and may
    result in the future consolidation of companies or entities with
    which we have a collaborative arrangement.

Use of
    Estimates  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    accordance with U.S. GAAP requires our management to make
    estimates and judgments that may affect the reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing
    basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those
    related to revenue recognition and related allowances,
    marketable securities, derivatives and hedging activities,
    inventory, impairments of long-lived assets including intangible
    assets, impairments of goodwill, income taxes including the
    valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, valuation of
    investments, research and development expenses, contingencies
    and litigation, and share-based payments. We base our estimates
    on historical experience and on various other assumptions that
    are believed to be reasonable, the results of which form the
    basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets
    and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates
    under different assumptions or conditions.

Reclassifications  

Where specified, certain prior-year amounts have been
    reclassified to conform to the current year s presentation.

Subsequent
    Events   

We evaluated all events and transactions through
    February 9, 2009, the date we issued these financial
    statements. During this period we did not have any material
    recognizable subsequent events. However, we did have the
    following nonrecognizable subsequent events:

In January 2010, Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Syntonix)
    achieved a significant development milestone obligating us to
    pay $40.0 million to its former shareholders. As the
    milestone occurred after December 31, 2009, the obligation
    is not reflected within our consolidated balance sheet as of
    that date. Such obligations are recorded when the milestone has
    been achieved due to the uncertainty surrounding triggering
    events. Refer to Note 2,  Acquisitions and Dispositions
     to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    discussion.

F-7

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Revenue
    Recognition   

We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met:
    persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has
    occurred or services have been rendered; the seller s price
    to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is
    reasonably assured.

Product
    Revenues  

Revenues from product sales are recognized when title and risk
    of loss have passed to the customer, which is typically upon
    delivery. However, sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. are
    recognized on the  sell-through  model, that is, upon
    shipment of the product by  Elan Pharma International, Ltd.
    (Elan), an affiliate of Elan Corporation, plc, Elan to its third
    party distributor rather than upon shipment to Elan.

Product revenues are recorded net of applicable reserves for
    trade term discounts, wholesaler incentives, Medicaid rebates,
    Veterans Administration (VA) rebates, managed care rebates,
    product returns and other applicable allowances.

Revenues
    from Unconsolidated Joint Business  

We collaborate with the Roche Group, through its wholly-owned
    member Genentech, Inc., on the development and commercialization
    of RITUXAN. Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist
    of (1) our share of pre-tax co-promotion profits in the
    U.S.; (2) reimbursement of our selling and development
    expense in the U.S.; and (3) revenue on sales of RITUXAN in
    the rest of world, which consist of our share of pretax
    co-promotion profits in Canada and royalty revenue on sales of
    RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada by F. Hoffmann-La Roche
    Ltd. (Roche) and its sublicensees. Pre-tax co-promotion profits
    are calculated and paid to us by Genentech in the U.S. and by
    Roche in Canada. Pre-tax co-promotion profits consist of U.S.
    and Canadian sales of RITUXAN to third-party customers net of
    discounts and allowances less the cost to manufacture RITUXAN,
     third-party 
    royalty expenses, distribution, selling and marketing, and joint
    development expenses incurred by Genentech, Roche and us. We
    record our royalty and co-promotion profits revenue on sales of
    RITUXAN in the rest of world on a cash basis.

Royalty
    Revenues  

We receive royalty revenues on sales by our licensees of other
    products covered under patents that we own. There are no future
    performance obligations on our part under these license
    arrangements. We record these revenues based on estimates of the
    sales that occurred during the relevant period. The relevant
    period estimates of sales are based on interim data provided by
    licensees and analysis of historical royalties that have been
    paid to us, adjusted for any changes in facts and circumstances,
    as appropriate. We maintain regular communication with our
    licensees in order to assess the reasonableness of our
    estimates. Differences between actual royalty revenues and
    estimated royalty revenues are adjusted for in the period in
    which they become known, typically the following quarter.
    Historically, adjustments have not been material when compared
    to actual amounts paid by licensees. To the extent we do not
    have sufficient ability to accurately estimate revenue, we
    record revenues on a cash basis.

Milestone
    Revenues  

Under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Elan was
    required to make milestone payments to us in order to continue
    sharing equally in the collaboration s results. These
    amounts, recorded as deferred revenue upon receipt, are
    recognized as product revenue in our consolidated statements of
    income over the term of the collaboration agreement based on a
    units of revenue method whereby the revenue recognized is based
    on the ratio of units shipped in the current period over the
    total units expected to be shipped over the remaining term of
    the collaboration.

F-8

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Reserves
    for Discounts and Allowances  

We establish reserves for trade term discounts, wholesaler
    incentives, Medicaid rebates, Veteran s Administration (VA)
    rebates, managed care rebates, product returns and other
    applicable allowances. Reserves established for these discounts
    and allowances are classified as reductions of accounts
    receivable (if the amount is payable to our customer) or a
    liability (if the amount is payable to a party other than our
    customer).

In addition, we distribute no-charge product to qualifying
    patients under our patient assistance and patient replacement
    goods programs. This program is administered through one of our
    distribution partners, who ships product for qualifying patients
    from their own inventory purchased from us. Gross revenue and
    the related reserves are not recorded on product shipped under
    this program and cost of sales is recorded when the product is
    shipped.

Product revenue reserves are categorized as follows: discounts,
    contractual adjustments, and returns.

Discount reserves include trade term discounts and wholesaler
    incentives. Trade term discounts and wholesaler incentive
    reserves primarily relate to estimated obligations for credits
    to be granted to wholesalers for remitting payment on their
    purchases within established incentive periods and credits to be
    granted to wholesalers for compliance with various
    contractually-defined inventory management practices,
    respectively. We determine these reserves based on our
    experience, including the timing of customer payments.

Contractual adjustment reserves primarily relate to Medicaid, VA
    and managed care rebates.

Medicaid rebate reserves relate to our estimated obligations to
    states under established reimbursement arrangements. Rebate
    accruals are recorded in the same period the related revenue is
    recognized resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the
    establishment of a liability which is included in accrued
    expenses and other current liabilities. Rebate amounts are
    generally determined at the time of claim by the state, and we
    generally make cash payments for such amounts within a few weeks
    of receiving billings from the state.

VA rebates or chargeback reserves represent our estimated
    obligations resulting from contractual commitments to sell
    products to qualified healthcare providers at prices lower than
    the list prices we charge to wholesalers which provide those
    products. The wholesaler charges us for the difference between
    what the wholesaler pays for the products and the ultimate
    selling price to the qualified healthcare providers. Rebate
    accruals are established in the same period as the related
    revenue is recognized resulting in a reduction in product
    revenue and accounts receivable. Chargeback amounts are
    generally determined at the time of resale to the qualified
    healthcare provider from the wholesaler, and we generally issue
    credits for such amounts within a few weeks of receiving
    notification from the wholesaler.

Managed care rebates reserves represent our estimated
    obligations to third parties, primarily pharmacy benefit
    managers. Rebate accruals are recorded in the same period the
    related revenue is recognized resulting in a reduction to
    product revenue and the establishment of a liability which is
    included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities.
    These rebates result from performance-based offers that are
    primarily based on attaining contractually specified sales
    volumes and growth. The calculation of the accrual for these
    rebates is based on an estimate of the customer s buying
    patterns and the resulting applicable contractual rebate rate(s)
    to be earned over a contractual period.

Allowances for product returns are established for returns made
    by wholesalers and patients and are recorded in the period the
    related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to
    product revenue. In accordance with contractual terms,
    wholesalers are permitted to return product for reasons such as
    damaged or expired product. We also accept returns from our
    patients for various reasons.

Expired product return reserves are estimated through a
    comparison of historical return data to their related sales on a
    production lot basis. Historical rates of return are determined
    for each product and are adjusted for known or expected changes
    in the marketplace specific to each product.

F-9

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Bad debt reserves are based on our estimated uncollectible
    accounts receivable. Given our historical experiences with bad
    debts, combined with our credit management policies and
    practices, we do not presently maintain significant bad debt
    reserves.

In addition to the discounts and rebates described above and
    classified as a reduction of revenue, we also maintain certain
    customer service contracts with distributors and other customers
    in the distribution channel that provide us with inventory
    management and distribution services. We have established the
    fair value of these services and classified these customer
    service contracts as sales and marketing expense. If we had
    concluded that we did not receive a separate identifiable
    benefit or have sufficient evidence that the fair value did not
    exist for these services, we would have been required to
    classify these costs as a reduction of revenue.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

We consider only those investments which are highly liquid,
    readily convertible to cash and that mature within three months
    from date of purchase to be cash equivalents. As of
    December 31, 2009, cash equivalents were comprised of money
    market funds and commercial paper.

Fair
    Value Measurements   

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a newly issued
    accounting standard for fair value measurements of all
    nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities not recognized
    or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a
    recurring basis. The adoption of the accounting standard for
    these assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on
    our financial position or results of operations; however, this
    standard may impact us in subsequent periods and require
    additional disclosures.

In the second quarter of 2009, we implemented newly issued
    accounting standards which provide guidance for determining fair
    value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or
    liability have significantly decreased and identifying
    circumstances that indicate that a transaction is not orderly.
    Specifically, the new standards provide additional guidelines
    for making fair value measurements more consistent with the
    principles presented and provide authoritative guidance in
    determining whether a market is active or inactive, and whether
    a transaction is distressed. This guidance is applicable to all
    assets and liabilities (i.e. financial and nonfinancial) and
    requires enhanced disclosures, including interim and annual
    disclosure of the input and valuation techniques (or changes in
    techniques) used to measure fair value and the defining of the
    major security types comprising debt and equity securities held
    based upon the nature and risk of the security. The adoption of
    the new standards did not impact our financial position or
    results of operations; however, adoption has enhanced
    disclosures for our investments in marketable debt securities
    and resulted in the reclassification of certain amounts included
    within our previously reported disclosures to conform to the
    presentation adopted in the current year.

Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted a standard for fair
    value measurements for our financial assets and liabilities that
    are re-measured and reported at fair value at each reporting
    period, and non-financial assets and liabilities that are
    re-measured and reported at fair value at least annually. The
    adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

We have certain financial assets and liabilities recorded at
    fair value which have been classified as Level 1, 2 or 3
    within the fair value hierarchy as described in the accounting
    standards for fair value measurements.

Level 1    Fair values are determined
    utilizing quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
    identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to
    access;

Level 2    Fair values are determined by
    utilizing quoted prices for identical or similar assets and
    liabilities in active markets or other market observable inputs
    such as interest rates, yield curves and foreign currency spot
    rates; and

F-10

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Level 3    Prices or valuations that
    require inputs that are both significant to the fair value
    measurement and unobservable.

The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance
    sheets for cash, accounts receivable, due from unconsolidated
    joint business, other current assets, accounts payable, and
    accrued expenses and other, approximate fair value due to their
    short-term maturities.

Concentration
    of Credit Risks   

Our primary exposure to credit risk derives from our cash, cash
    equivalents, marketable securities, and receivables from
    customers and collaborative partners.

Until required for use in the business, we invest our cash in
    bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper,
    corporate notes, foreign and U.S. government instruments,
    including government sponsored enterprise mortgage-backed
    securities, credit card and auto loan asset-backed securities
    and other marketable debt instruments in accordance with our
    investment policy. We mitigate credit risk by maintaining a well
    diversified portfolio and limiting the amount of investment
    exposure as to institution, maturity and investment type.

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables, which
    are typically unsecured, are generally limited due to the wide
    variety of customers and markets using our products, as well as
    their dispersion across many different geographic areas. Our
    accounts receivable are payable by wholesale distributors, large
    pharmaceutical companies and public hospitals. We monitor the
    financial performance and credit worthiness of our large
    customers so that we can properly assess and respond to changes
    in their credit profile. Our historical write-offs of accounts
    receivable have not been significant. As of December 31,
    2009 and 2008, one wholesale distributor accounted for
    approximately 8.1% and 11.0% of consolidated receivables,
    respectively.

Marketable
    Securities and Other Investments   

Marketable
    Debt Securities  

Available-for-sale 
    debt securities are recorded at fair market value and unrealized
    gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive
    income in shareholders  equity, net of related tax effects,
    unless the security has experienced a credit loss, we have
    determined that we have the intent to sell the security or we
    have determined that it is more likely than not that we will
    have to sell the security before its expected recovery. Realized
    gains and losses are reported in other income (expense), net, on
    a specific identification basis.

Strategic
    Investments  

As part of our strategic product development efforts, we invest
    in equity securities of certain biotechnology companies. These
    investments are known as strategic investments and are
    classified as
     available-for-sale 
    and accounted for as marketable equity investments or as cost
    investments based upon our percentage ownership interest and
    other factors which may indicate the presumption of significant
    influence. When assessing whether a decline in the fair value of
    a strategic investment below our cost basis is
     other-than-temporary, 
    we consider the fair market value of the security, the duration
    of the security s decline, and prospects for the underlying
    business, including favorable clinical trial results, new
    product initiatives and new collaborative agreements with the
    companies in which we have invested.

Non-Marketable
    Equity Securities  

We also invest in equity securities of companies whose
    securities are not publicly traded and where fair value is not
    readily available. These investments are recorded using either
    the cost method or the equity method of accounting, depending on
    our percentage ownership interest and other factors which may
    indicate the presence of significant influence. We monitor these
    investments to evaluate whether any decline in their value has
    occurred that

F-11

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

would be
     other-than-temporary, 
    based on the implied value from any recent rounds of financing
    completed by the company, public market prices of comparable
    companies, and general market conditions.

Securities
    Lending  

We are able to loan certain securities from our portfolio to
    other institutions. Such securities are classified as loaned
    securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
    Collateral for the loaned securities, consisting of cash or
    other securities, is maintained at a rate of approximately 102%
    of the market value of each loaned security. We previously
    loaned certain securities from our portfolio to other
    institutions and held collateral in the amount of
    $30.0 million as of December 31, 2008 in relation to
    such loans. The cash collateral was recorded as collateral
    received for loaned securities on the accompanying consolidated
    balance sheet. No such loans were outstanding as of
    December 31, 2009; accordingly, no collateral was held as
    of December 31, 2009.

Other-than-Temporary 
    Impairments  

In April 2009, we implemented a newly issued accounting standard
    which provides guidance for the recognition, measurement and
    presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments. This newly issued standard amended the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment model for debt securities and requires additional
    disclosures regarding the calculation of credit losses and the
    factors considered in reaching a conclusion that an investment
    is
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired. The impairment model for equity securities was not
    affected.

Prior to our adoption of this new accounting standard, we
    recognized all
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment amounts related to our debt securities in earnings as
    required under the previously effective guidance which required
    that management assert that it had the ability and intent to
    hold a debt security until maturity or until we recovered the
    cost of our investment. Under the new accounting standards, an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment must be recognized through earnings if an investor
    has the intent to sell the debt security or if it is more likely
    than not that the investor will be required to sell the debt
    security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. However,
    even if an investor does not expect to sell a debt security,
    expected cash flows to be received must be evaluated to
    determine if a credit loss has occurred. In the event of a
    credit loss, only the amount associated with the credit loss is
    recognized in income. The amount of losses relating to other
    factors, including those resulting from changes in interest
    rates, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.
    The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on
    our financial position or results of operations.

Inventory   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost
    determined under the
     first-in, 
    first-out (FIFO) method. Included in inventory are raw materials
    used in the production of pre-clinical and clinical products,
    which are charged to research and development expense when
    consumed.

We capitalize inventory costs associated with our products prior
    to regulatory approval when, based on management s
    judgment, future commercialization is considered probable and
    the future economic benefit is expected to be realized.

Inventory
    Write-Offs  

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, subject to
    review for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may
    not be recoverable. Interest costs incurred during the
    construction of major capital projects are capitalized until the
    underlying asset is ready for its intended

F-12

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

use, at which point the interest costs are amortized as
    depreciation expense over the life of the underlying asset. We
    also capitalize certain direct and incremental costs associated
    with the validation effort required for licensing by regulatory
    agencies of manufacturing equipment for the production of a
    commercially approved drug. These costs include primarily direct
    labor and material and are incurred in preparing the equipment
    for its intended use. The validation costs are amortized over
    the life of the related equipment. Maintenance costs are
    expensed as incurred.

We generally depreciate or amortize the cost of our property,
    plant and equipment using the straight-line method over the
    estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which are
    summarized as follows:

Asset Category 

Useful Lives 

Land

Not depreciated

Buildings

15 to 40 years

Leasehold Improvements

Lesser of the useful life or the term of the respective lease

Machinery and Equipment

6 to 15 years

Furniture and Fixtures

7 years

Computer Software and Hardware

3 to 5 years

Intangible
    Assets   

Effective January 1, 2009, we implemented an amendment to
    the accounting and disclosure requirements related to intangible
    assets. This amendment provides guidance for determining the
    useful life of a recognized intangible asset and requires
    enhanced disclosures so that users of financial statements are
    able to assess the extent to which the expected future cash
    flows associated with the asset are affected by our intent and
    ability to renew or extend the arrangement. The adoption of this
    guidance did not impact our financial position or results of
    operations as this standard was required to be implemented
    prospectively; however, this standard may impact us in
    subsequent periods.

Our intangible assets consist of patents, licenses, core
    developed technology, trademarks, tradenames, assembled
    workforce, and distribution rights, the majority of which arose
    in connection with the merger of Biogen Inc. and IDEC
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation. These intangible assets were
    recorded at fair value and are stated net of accumulated
    amortization and impairments.

The useful lives of our intangible assets are primarily based on
    the legal or contractual life of the underlying patent or
    contract, which does not include additional years for the
    potential extension or renewal of the contract or patent. Our
    policy is based on the generally accepted accounting principles
    for amortization of intangible assets, which requires that the
    amortization of intangible assets reflect the pattern that the
    economic benefits of the intangible assets are consumed.

Intangible assets related to patents, licenses, core developed
    technology, assembled workforce, and distribution rights are
    amortized over their remaining estimated useful lives.
    Intangible assets related to trademarks and tradenames have
    indefinite lives, and as a result are not amortized, but are
    subject to review for impairment. We review our intangible
    assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, as of
    October 31, and whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be
    recoverable.

Our most significant intangible asset is the core technology
    related to our AVONEX product which was established at the time
    of the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation. The net book value of this asset as of
    December 31, 2009 was $1,516.7 million.

We believe the economic benefit of this core technology is
    consumed as revenue is generated from our AVONEX product. An
    analysis of the anticipated lifetime revenue of AVONEX is
    performed at least annually during our long range planning
    cycle. The results of this forecast serve as the basis for our
    assumptions used in the economic consumption amortization model
    for our core technology intangible asset. Although we believe
    this process has allowed us to reliably determine the best
    estimate of the pattern in which we will consume the economic
    benefits of our core technology intangible asset, the model
    could result in deferring amortization charges to future periods
    in certain instances due to continued sales of the product at a
    nominal level after patent expiration or

F-13

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

otherwise. In order to ensure amortization charges are not
    unreasonably deferred to future periods, we use the
    straight-line method to determine the minimum annual amount of
    amortization expense (the minimum amortization amount). This
    minimum amortization amount is recalculated each year based on
    the remaining unamortized balance of the intangible asset and
    the remaining estimated useful life of the intangible asset and
    is compared to the amount of amortization determined under the
    economic consumption model. We record amortization based upon
    the higher of the amount of amortization determined under the
    economic consumption model or the minimum amortization amount
    determined under the straight-line method.

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets   

Long-lived assets to be held and used, including property, plant
    and equipment as well as intangible assets are reviewed for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
    that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
    Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment
    include a significant decline in the observable market value of
    an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which
    an asset is used, or a significant adverse change that would
    indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets
    is not recoverable. Determination of recoverability is based on
    an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the
    use of the asset and its eventual disposition. In the event that
    such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the
    carrying amount of the assets, the assets are written-down to
    their estimated fair values. Long-lived assets to be disposed of
    are carried at fair value less costs to sell.

Goodwill   

Goodwill relates largely to amounts that arose in connection
    with the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation and represents the difference between the purchase
    price and the fair value of the identifiable tangible and
    intangible net assets when accounted for using the purchase
    method of accounting. Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject
    to periodic review for impairment. Goodwill is reviewed
    annually, as of October 31, and whenever events or changes
    in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the
    goodwill might not be recoverable.

We perform a two-step impairment test. In the first step, we
    compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying
    value. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the
    reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit,
    then the second step of the impairment test is performed in
    order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting
    unit s goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting
    unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the
    company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. As
    described in Note 20,  Segment Information  to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements, we operate in one business
    segment which we consider our only reporting unit.

Research
    and Development Expenses   

Research and development expenses consist of upfront fees and
    milestones paid to collaborators and expenses incurred in
    performing research and development activities. Research and
    development expenses are expensed as incurred. Payments we make
    for research and development services prior to the services
    being rendered are recorded as prepaid assets on our
    consolidated balance sheets and are expensed as the services are
    provided.

From time to time, we enter into development agreements in which
    we share expenses with a collaborative partner. We record
    payments received from our collaborative partners for their
    share of the development costs as a reduction of research and
    development expense.

Acquired
    In-Process Research and Development (IPR D)   

Acquired IPR D represents the fair value assigned to
    research and development projects that we acquire that have not
    been completed at the date of acquisition and which have no
    future alternative use. The value assigned to acquired
    IPR D is determined by estimating the costs to develop the
    acquired technology into commercially viable products,
    estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects, and
    discounting the net cash flows to present

F-14

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

value. The revenue and costs projections used to value acquired
    IPR D were, as applicable, reduced based on the probability
    of developing a new drug. Additionally, the projections
    considered the relevant market sizes and growth factors,
    expected trends in technology, and the nature and expected
    timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors.
    The resulting net cash flows from such projects are based on
    management s estimates of cost of sales, operating
    expenses, and income taxes from such projects. The rates
    utilized to discount the net cash flows to their present value
    were commensurate with the stage of development of the projects
    and uncertainties in the economic estimates used in the
    projections described above.

Effective January 1, 2009, we account for business
    combinations completed on or after January 1, 2009 in
    accordance with the revised guidance for accounting for business
    combinations, which modifies the criteria that must be met to
    qualify as a business combination and prescribes new accounting
    requirements, including the accounting treatment associated with
    acquired IPR D. Prior to January 1, 2009, we measured
    acquired IPR D at fair value and expensed it on acquisition
    date, or capitalized as an intangible assets if certain criteria
    were met; however, effective January 1, 2009, acquired
    IPR D will be measured at fair value and capitalized as an
    intangible assets and tested for impairment until completion of
    the programs and amortized from the date of completion over the
    estimated useful life.

Accounting
    for Share-based Compensation   

Our share-based compensation programs grant awards which have
    included stock options, time-vested restricted stock units,
    performance-vested restricted stock units, restricted stock
    awards and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan
    (ESPP). We charge the estimated fair value of awards against
    income over the requisite service period, which is generally the
    vesting period. Where awards are made with non-substantive
    vesting periods (for instance, where a portion of the award
    vests upon retirement eligibility), we estimate and recognize
    expense based on the period from the grant date to the date on
    which the employee is retirement eligible.

The fair values of our stock option grants are estimated as of
    the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation model.
    The estimated fair values of the stock options, including the
    effect of estimated forfeitures, are then expensed over the
    options  vesting periods. The fair values of our
    time-vested restricted units and restricted stock awards are
    based on the market value of our stock on the date of grant.
    Compensation expense for restricted stock units and restricted
    stock awards are recognized over the applicable service period,
    adjusted for the effect of estimated forfeitures.

We apply a graded vesting expense methodology when accounting
    for our performance-vested restricted stock units. The number of
    units reflected as granted represents the target number of
    shares that are eligible to vest in full or in part and are
    earned subject to the attainment of certain performance criteria
    established at the beginning of the performance period. The
    vesting of these awards is also subject to the respective
    employees  continued employment. Compensation expense
    associated with these units is initially based upon the number
    of shares expected to vest after assessing the probability that
    certain performance criteria will be met and the associated
    targeted payout level that is forecasted will be achieved, net
    of estimated forfeitures. Cumulative adjustments are recorded
    quarterly to reflect subsequent changes in the estimated outcome
    of performance-related conditions until the date results are
    determined.

The purchase price of common stock under the ESPP is equal to
    85% of the lower of (i) the market value per share of the
    common stock on the participant s entry date into an
    offering period or (ii) the market value per share of the
    common stock on the purchase date. However, for each participant
    whose entry date is other than the start date of the offering
    period, the amount shall in no event be less than the market
    value per share of the common stock as of the beginning of the
    related offering period. The fair value of the discounted
    purchases made under the employee stock purchase plan is
    calculated using the Black-Scholes model. The fair value of the
    look-back provision plus the 15% discount is recognized as
    compensation expense over the purchase period. We apply a graded
    vesting approach since our ESPP provides for multiple purchase
    periods and is, in substance, a series of linked awards.

F-15

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Earnings
    per Share   

We calculate earnings per share in accordance with the
     Earning Per Share  Topic of the Codification which
    requires the presentation of  basic  earnings per
    share and  diluted  earnings per share.

Basic earnings per share is computed using the two-class method.
    Under the two-class method, undistributed net income is
    allocated to common stock and participating securities based on
    their respective rights to share in dividends. We have
    determined that our preferred shares meet the definition of
    participating securities, and have allocated a portion of net
    income to our preferred shares on a pro rata basis. Net income
    allocated to preferred shares is excluded from the calculation
    of basic earnings per share. For basic earnings per share, net
    income available to holders of common stock is divided by the
    weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding.
    For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, net
    income is adjusted for the after-tax amount of interest
    associated with convertible debt and net income allocable to
    preferred shares, and the denominator includes both the weighted
    average number of shares of common stock outstanding and
    potential dilutive shares of common stock from stock options,
    unvested restricted stock awards, restricted stock units and
    other convertible securities, to the extent they are dilutive.

Income
    Taxes   

The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, local
    and foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the
    liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
    recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of
    temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
    amounts and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
    apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary
    differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We evaluate
    the realizability of our deferred tax assets and establish a
    valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or
    a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized.

We account for uncertain tax positions using a
     more-likely-than-not  threshold for recognizing and
    resolving uncertain tax positions. The evaluation of uncertain
    tax positions is based on factors including, but not limited to,
    changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions taken or
    expected to be taken in tax returns, the effective settlement of
    matters subject to audit, new audit activity and changes in
    facts or circumstances related to a tax position. We evaluate
    this tax position on a quarterly basis. We also accrue for
    potential interest and penalties, related to unrecognized tax
    benefits in income tax expense.

Derivatives
    and Hedging Activities   

Accounting standards require that all derivatives be recognized
    on the balance sheets at their fair value. Changes in the fair
    value of derivatives are recorded each period in current
    earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),
    depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of a
    hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction.
    We assess, both at inception and on an ongoing basis, whether
    the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
    effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows or fair values
    of the hedged items. We also assess hedge ineffectiveness on a
    quarterly basis and record the gain or loss related to the
    ineffective portion to current earnings to the extent
    significant. If we determine that a forecasted transaction is no
    longer probable of occurring, we discontinue hedge accounting
    for the affected portion of the hedge instrument, and any
    related unrealized gain or loss on the contract is recognized in
    current earnings.

Translation
    of Foreign Currencies   

The functional currency for most of our foreign subsidiaries is
    their local currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at
    current rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Income and
    expense items are translated at the average foreign exchange
    rates for the period. Adjustments resulting from the translation
    of the financial statements of our foreign operations into
    U.S. dollars are excluded from the determination of net
    income and are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
    income, a separate component of shareholders  equity.

F-16

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses are included in
    the results of operations in other income (expense), net. We had
    net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $11.4 million,
    $(9.8) million, and $3.0 million in 2009, 2008, and
    2007, respectively.

Assets
    Held for Sale   

We consider certain real property and certain other
    miscellaneous assets as held for sale when they meet the
    criteria set out in the accounting standard for impairment or
    disposal of long-lived assets.

As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were no assets held
    for sale on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

2.    

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

Syntonix
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   

In January 2007, we acquired 100% of the stock of Syntonix.
    Syntonix focuses on discovering and developing long-acting
    therapeutic products to improve treatment regimens for chronic
    diseases, and is engaged in multiple programs in hemophilia. The
    purchase price was $44.4 million, including transaction
    costs, and could increase to as much as $124.4 million if
    certain development milestones with respect to Syntonix s
    lead product, long-acting recombinant Factor IX, a proprietary
    long-acting Factor IX product for the treatment of hemophilia B,
    are achieved. Under the acquisition agreement we also agreed to
    make additional future consideration payments upon the
    achievement of certain milestone events. Future contingent
    consideration payments, if any, will be recorded as IPR D.
    Due to the uncertainty surrounding triggering events related to
    the attainment of milestones, such charges and related
    obligations are generally recorded when the milestone has been
    achieved. The acquisition was funded from our existing cash on
    hand and was accounted for as an asset acquisition as Syntonix
    was a development-stage company.

The purpose of the acquisition was to enhance our pipeline and
    to expand into additional specialized markets and as a result of
    the acquisition we obtained the rights to the in-process
    technology of the Fc-fusion technology platform. Syntonix has
    two programs in development using the Fc-fusion platform,
    long-acting recombinant Factor IX and long-acting recombinant
    Factor VIII. Syntonix s lead product, long-acting
    recombinant Factor IX, is a proprietary long-acting Factor IX
    product for the treatment of hemophilia B. Long-acting
    recombinant Factor VIII is a product being developed for the
    treatment of hemophilia A and is the subject of a Phase 1 study
    in hemophilia A.

In January 2010, we initiated patient enrollment in a
    registrational study for long-acting recombinant Factor IX in
    hemophilia B. The initiation of this study resulted in the
    achievement of a significant milestone, obligating us to pay
    $40.0 million to the former shareholders of Syntonix. As
    the milestone occurred subsequent to December 31, 2009, the
    obligation is not reflected in our consolidated balance sheet as
    of that date and will be reflected as IPR D expense in the
    first quarter of 2010.

The results of operations of Syntonix are included in our
    consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition.
    We have completed our purchase price allocation for the
    acquisition as set out below:

F-17

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The purchase price included $2.0 million in loan
    forgiveness and $0.7 million in transaction fees. In
    addition, $0.3 million of severance charges were accrued as
    a result of the acquisition. The amount allocated to IPR D
    relates to the development of long-acting recombinant Factor IX
    and long-acting recombinant Factor VIII. At the date of
    acquisition, these compounds were in development stage, had not
    reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future
    use. Accordingly, $18.4 million in IPR D was expensed
    upon acquisition.

Upon acquisition, we recognized a deferred tax asset of
    $27.8 million. The deferred tax asset included
    approximately $12.8 million of net operating loss and
    research credit carryovers that will be utilized prior to
    applicable expiration dates, as well as approximately
    $15.3 million of other deferred tax assets primarily
    related to
     start-up  and
    research expenditures that have been capitalized for tax
    purposes and are being amortized over the next several years.

The pro forma impact on total revenue, operating income (loss)
    and net income (loss) of the acquisition was not material for
    the year ended December 31, 2007.

We collaborate with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (Biovitrum) on
    the development and commercialization of long-acting recombinant
    Factor VIII and Factor IX. Please read Note 17,
     Collaborations  to our Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a description and summary of activities related to this
    collaboration.

ZEVALIN   

Our product line previously included ZEVALIN ( ibritumomab
    tiuxetan ), which is part of a treatment regimen for certain
    B-cell NHL. In December 2007, we sold the rights to market,
    sell, manufacture and develop ZEVALIN in the U.S. to Cell
    Therapeutics, Inc. (CTI), for an upfront payment of
    $10.0 million and agreed to supply ZEVALIN product to CTI
    through 2014. In the European Union, we continue to sell ZEVALIN
    to Bayer Schering Pharma AG (Schering), our licensee for sales
    of ZEVALIN outside the U.S.

Under the terms of our agreement with CTI, we are further
    entitled to receive additional payments contingent upon the
    achievement of certain milestone events. In September 2009, the
    FDA approved an expansion of ZEVALIN s label as part of the
    first line therapy in the treatment of follicular
    non-Hodgkin s lymphoma. This approval triggered a
    $5.5 million payment to us in October 2009. We may receive
    up to an additional $10.0 million in milestone payments.

In addition, during December 2008 we received an additional
    $2.2 million payment from CTI pursuant to an amendment to
    our agreement with CTI as well as a $0.8 million consent
    fee received from CTI upon assigning their rights under the
    agreement to a third party in March 2009.

We recognize our sales of ZEVALIN to Schering for distribution
    in the European Union as product revenue, and we recognize sales
    related to our supply of ZEVALIN to CTI as corporate partner
    revenue. We continue to recognize royalties received from
    Schering on their sales of ZEVALIN in the European Union within
    the royalty revenue component of other revenues. The
    $10.0 million upfront and $7.7 million milestone
    payments received to date are being recognized in our results of
    operations over the term of our supply agreement with CTI.

Reserves
    for Discounts and Allowances   

Revenues are recorded net of applicable reserves for trade term
    discounts, wholesaler incentives, Medicaid rebates, VA rebates,
    managed care rebates, product returns and other applicable
    allowances. Reserves established for these discounts and
    allowances are classified as reductions of accounts receivable
    (if the amount is payable to our customer) or a liability (if
    the amount is payable to a party other than our customer).

F-18

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Our product revenue reserves are based on estimates of the
    amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. These
    estimates take into consideration our historical experience,
    current contractual requirements and statutory requirements,
    specific known market events and trends and forecasted customer
    buying patterns. If actual future results vary, we may need to
    adjust these estimates, which could have an effect on earnings
    in the period of the adjustment.

An analysis of the amount of, and change in, reserves is
    summarized as follows:

The total reserves above, included in our consolidated balance
    sheets, are summarized as follows:

F-19

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Reserves for discounts, contractual adjustments and returns that
    reduced gross product revenues are summarized as follows:

4.    

Inventory  

The components of inventories are summarized as follows:

The following table provides a summary of work in process and
    finished goods by product:

Write-downs
    from Unmarketable Inventory   

Amounts written-down related to unmarketable inventory are
    charged to cost of sales, excluding amortization of acquired
    intangible assets. Amounts written-down during 2009, 2008, and
    2007 totaled $16.9 million, $29.8 million and
    $21.6 million, respectively.

F-20

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

5.    

Intangible
    Assets and Goodwill  

Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, impairment
    charges and adjustments, are summarized as follows:

Intangible
    Assets   

Intangible assets were unchanged as of December 31, 2009 as
    compared to December 31, 2008 exclusive of the impact of
    foreign exchange and amortization.

In September 2009, we were issued a U.S. patent for the use
    of beta interferon for immunomodulation or treating a viral
    condition, viral disease, cancers or tumors. This patent,
    expiring in September 2026, covers the treatment of multiple
    sclerosis with AVONEX, which is our brand of recombinant beta
    interferon and extends the expected remaining life of the
    related core intangible asset.

Amortization
    of Acquired Intangible Assets   

Our most significant intangible asset is the core technology
    related to our AVONEX product. We believe the economic benefit
    of our core technology is consumed as revenue is generated from
    our AVONEX product, which we refer to as the economic
    consumption amortization model. An analysis of the anticipated
    product sales of AVONEX is performed annually during our long
    range planning cycle each year. This analysis serves as the
    basis for the calculation of economic consumption for the core
    technology intangible asset.

We completed our most recent long range planning cycle in the
    third quarter of 2009, which includes an analysis of the
    anticipated product sales of AVONEX. Based upon our most recent
    analysis, amortization of intangible assets included within our
    consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 is
    expected to be in the range of approximately $160.0 million
    to $220.0 million for each of the next five years.

F-21

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Goodwill   

The following table summarizes changes to goodwill:

As of December 31, 2009 we had no accumulated impairment
    losses.

6.    

Fair
    Value Measurements  

Summary
    of Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value   

The tables below present information about our assets and
    liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis
    as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and indicate the fair
    value hierarchy of the valuation techniques we utilized to
    determine such fair value, which is described further within
    Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
     to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

A majority of our financial assets and liabilities have been
    classified as Level 2. These assets and liabilities have
    been initially valued at the transaction price and subsequently
    valued typically utilizing third party pricing services. The
    pricing services use many observable market inputs to determine
    value, including reportable trades, benchmark yields, credit
    spreads, broker/dealer quotes, bids, offers, current spot rates
    and other industry and economic events. We validate the prices
    provided by our third party pricing services by understanding
    the models used, obtaining market values from other pricing
    sources, analyzing pricing data in certain instances and
    confirming those securities trade in active markets. After
    completing our validation procedures, we did not adjust or
    override any fair value measurements provided by our pricing
    services as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Our strategic investments in publicly traded equity securities
    are classified as Level 1 assets as their fair values are
    readily determinable and based on quoted market prices.

Our venture capital investments are the only assets for which we
    used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value. Venture
    capital investments represented approximately 0.3% of total
    assets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. We have funding
    commitments of up to approximately $24.8 million as part of
    our investment in these funds. These funds primarily invest in
    small privately-owned, ventured-backed, biotechnology companies.
    The fair value of funds has been estimated using the net asset
    value of our ownership interest in partner s capital. The
    investments cannot be redeemed within the funds. Distributions
    from each will be received as the underlying investments of the
    fund are liquidated. The funds and therefore a majority of the
    underlying assets of the funds will not be liquidated in the
    near future. The underlying assets in these funds are initially
    measured at transaction prices and subsequently valued using the
    pricing of recent financing or by reviewing the underlying
    economic fundamentals and liquidation value of the companies.
    Gains and losses (realized and unrealized) included in earnings
    for the period are reported in other income (expense), net.

F-22

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following tables set forth our financial assets and
    liabilities that were recorded at fair value:

The fair values of our cash equivalents, marketable debt
    securities, derivative contracts and plan assets for deferred
    compensation are determined through market and observable
    sources.

F-23

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table provides a roll forward of the fair value of
    our venture capital investments, where fair value is determined
    by Level 3 inputs:

The fair values of our debt instruments are summarized as
    follows:

The fair values of our credit line from Dompe and our note
    payable to Fumedica were estimated using market observable
    inputs. The fair value of our Senior Notes was determined
    through market, observable and corroborated sources. Within the
    hierarchy of fair value measurements, these are Level 2
    fair values.

7.    

Financial
    Instruments  

Marketable
    Securities, including Strategic Investments   

The following tables summarize our marketable securities and
    strategic investments:

F-24

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In the tables above, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    government securities included $298.8 million and
    $139.1 million, respectively, of Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation (FDIC) guaranteed senior notes issued by financial
    institutions under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Programs.

Certain commercial paper and short-term debt securities with
    original maturities of less than 90 days are included in
    cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated
    balance sheets and are not included in the tables above. As of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, such commercial paper,
    including accrued interest, had fair and carrying values of
    $76.9 million and $42.7 million, respectively, and
    short-term debt securities had fair and carrying values of
    $399.5 million and $458.2 million, respectively.

In addition, the balances as of December 31, 2008 include
    amounts related to loaned securities under our securities
    lending program.

Summary
    of Contractual Maturities:
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities   

The estimated fair value and amortized cost of securities,
    excluding strategic investments,
     available-for-sale 
    by contractual maturity are summarized as follows:

The average maturity of our marketable securities as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 was 15 months and
    13 months, respectively.

F-25

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Proceeds
    from Maturities and Sales of Marketable Securities, excluding
    Strategic Investments   

The proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities,
    excluding strategic investments, which were primarily reinvested
    and resulting realized gains and losses, are summarized as
    follows:

The realized losses for the year ended December 31, 2009
    and 2008 primarily relate to losses on the sale of corporate
    debt securities and non-agency mortgage-backed securities.

Strategic
    Investments   

In 2009 we sold two strategic investments for $5.9 million,
    which resulted in a $3.0 million gain. In 2008, we did not
    sell any portion of our strategic investments. In 2007, we sold
    our share in one strategic investment for $99.5 million,
    which resulted in a $17.2 million gain. Strategic
    investments are included in investments and other assets on the
    accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

In addition to the strategic investments and venture capital
    investments noted in Note 6,  Fair Value
    Measurements , to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we
    hold other investments in equity securities of certain privately
    held biotechnology companies and biotechnology oriented venture
    capital funds accounted for using the cost method. The cost
    basis of these securities as of December 31, 2009 and 2008
    is $73.9 million and $40.8 million, respectively.
    These securities are also included in investments and other
    assets on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Impairments   

Evaluating
    Investments for
     Other-than-Temporary 
    Impairments  

We conduct periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each
    investment that has an unrealized loss, in accordance with the
    meaning of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment and its application to certain investments, as
    required by U.S. GAAP. An unrealized loss exists when the
    current fair value of an individual security is less than its
    amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses on
     available-for-sale 
    securities that are determined to be temporary, and not related
    to credit loss, are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other
    comprehensive income.

For
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities with unrealized losses, management performs an
    analysis to assess whether we intend to sell or whether we would
    more likely than not be required to sell the security before the
    expected recovery of the amortized cost basis. Where we intend
    to sell a security, or may be required to do so, the
    security s decline in fair value is deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and the full amount of the unrealized loss is recorded within
    earnings as an impairment loss.

Regardless of our intent to sell a security, we perform
    additional analysis on all securities with unrealized losses to
    evaluate losses associated with the creditworthiness of the
    security. Credit losses are identified where we do not expect to
    receive cash flows sufficient to recover the amortized cost
    basis of a security.

For equity securities, when assessing whether a decline in fair
    value below our cost basis is
     other-than-temporary, 
    we consider the fair market value of the security, the duration
    of the security s decline, and the financial condition of
    the issuer. We then consider our intent and ability to hold the
    equity security for a period of time sufficient to recover our
    carrying value. Where we have determined that we lack the intent
    and ability to hold an equity security to its expected recovery,
    the security s decline in fair value is deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and is recorded within earnings as an impairment loss.

F-26

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Recognition
    and Measurement of
     Other-than-Temporary 
    Impairment  

Prior to the adoption of new accounting standards for the
    recognition, measurement and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments in April 2009, we recognized all
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment amounts related to our marketable debt securities in
    earnings as required under the previously effective guidance
    which required that management assert that it had the ability
    and intent to hold a debt security until maturity or until we
    recovered the cost of our investment.

In 2009, 2008, and 2007, we recognized $3.8 million,
    $16.3 million, and $17.6 million in charges,
    respectively, for the impairment of publicly-held strategic
    investments and for declines in value of funds that were
    determined to be
     other-than-temporary. 

In 2009, 2008, and 2007, we recorded $3.2 million,
    $2.3 million, and $0.8 million, respectively, in
    charges for the impairment for certain investments in
    privately-held companies and declines in value of funds recorded
    under the cost method that were determined to be
     other-than-temporary. 

In 2009, we recognized $3.6 million in charges for the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on marketable debt securities. For 2008 and 2007, we
    recognized $41.7 million and $7.5 million,
    respectively, in charges for the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment of marketable debt securities primarily related to
    mortgage and asset-backed securities.

8.    

Derivative
    Instruments  

Forward
    Contracts and Interest Rate Swaps   

On January 1, 2009, we adopted a newly issued accounting
    standard which requires additional disclosure about our
    objectives for using derivative instruments, the level of
    derivative activity we engage in, and the effect of derivative
    instruments and related hedged items on our financial position
    and performance. The adoption of this standard did not impact
    our financial position or results of operations.

Our primary market exposure is to foreign exchange rates and
    interest rates. We use certain derivative instruments to help
    manage these exposures. We execute these instruments with
    financial institutions we judge to be creditworthy and the
    majority of these instruments are denominated in currencies of
    major industrial countries. We do not hold or issue derivative
    instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

We recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or
    liabilities at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. We
    classify the cash flows from these instruments in the same
    category as the cash flows from the hedged items.

Forward
    Contracts  

Due to the global nature of our operations, portions of our
    revenues are in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The
    value of revenue measured in U.S. dollars is subject to
    changes in foreign exchange rates. In order to mitigate these
    changes we use forward contracts to lock in foreign exchange
    rates. We do not engage in currency speculation.

All foreign currency forward contracts in effect as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 had durations of 1 to
    12 months. These contracts have been designated as cash
    flow hedges and accordingly, to the extent effective, any
    unrealized gains or losses on these foreign currency forward
    contracts are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss). Realized gains and losses for the effective portion of
    such contracts are recognized in revenue when the sale of
    product in the currency being hedged is recognized. To the
    extent ineffective, hedge transaction gains and losses are
    reported in other income (expense), net at each reporting date.

F-27

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Foreign currency forward contracts that were entered into to
    hedge forecasted revenue are summarized as follows:

The portion of the fair value of these contracts that was
    included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within
    total equity reflected gains of $1.2 million and losses of
    $44.1 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. We consider the impact of our and our
    counterparties  credit risk on the fair value of the
    contracts as well as the ability of each party to execute its
    obligations under the contract. As of December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively, credit risk did not materially change the
    fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts.

In relation to our foreign currency forward contracts, we
    recognize gains and losses in earnings due to hedge
    ineffectiveness. During the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007 we recognized net losses of $1.1 million,
    $0.2 million, and $2.6 million, respectively. In
    addition, we recognized $49.7 million, $8.5 million,
    and $13.1 million, respectively, of losses in product
    revenue for the settlement of certain effective cash flow hedge
    instruments for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively. These settlements were recorded in the same
    period as the related forecasted revenue.

Interest
    Rate Swaps  

In connection with the issuance of our 6.875% Senior Notes
    in March 2008, we entered into interest rate swap contracts with
    an aggregate notional amount of $550.0 million. These
    contracts were settled in December 2008. Under the settlement we
    received $53.9 million. As the interest rate swaps were
    settled in 2008, no hedge ineffectiveness was recognized for the
    year ended December 31, 2009. In the year ended
    December 31, 2008, we recognized a net loss of
    $8.9 million in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness.

Additionally, upon termination of the swaps in December 2008,
    the carrying amount of the 6.875% Senior Notes increased
    $62.8 million. This amount will be recognized as a
    reduction of interest expense and amortized using the effective
    interest rate method over the remaining life of the
    6.875% Senior Notes. In 2009, approximately
    $5.4 million was recorded as a reduction of interest
    expense.

Summary
    of Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments  

The following table summarizes the fair value and presentation
    in the consolidated balance sheets for derivatives designated as
    hedging instruments:

Foreign Currency Contracts 

Asset Derivatives 

Liability Derivatives 

(In millions) 

Balance Sheet Location 

Fair Value 

Balance Sheet Location 

Fair Value 

December 31, 2009

Other Current Assets

$

10.8

Accrued Expenses and Other

$

9.8

December 31, 2008

Other Current Assets

$

1.9

Accrued Expenses and Other

$

46.0

As noted above, the interest rate swap contracts were settled in
    December 2008.

F-28

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the effect of derivatives
    designated as hedging instruments on the consolidated statements
    of income:

Amount 

Amount 

Recognized in 

Reclassified from 

Accumulated Other 

Accumulated Other 

Comprehensive 

Comprehensive 

Income 

Income 

Amount of 

on Derivative 

Income Statement 

into Income 

Income Statement 

Gain/(Loss) 

Gain/(Loss) 

Location 

Gain/(Loss) 

Location 

Recorded 

For the Years Ended (In millions) 

(Effective Portion) 

(Effective Portion) 

(Effective Portion) 

(Ineffective Portion) 

(Ineffective Portion) 

December 31, 2009: 

Foreign currency contracts

$

1.2

Revenue

$

(49.7

)

Other income 
    (expense)

$

(1.1

)

December 31, 2008: 

Foreign currency contracts

$

(44.1

)

Revenue

$

(8.5

)

Other income 
    (expense)

$

0.2

Interest rate swap

$

Interest Expense

$

Interest Expense

$

(8.9

)

December 31, 2007: 

Foreign currency contracts

$

(6.4

)

Revenue

$

(13.1

)

Other income 
    (expense)

$

(2.6

)

Other
    Derivatives  

In 2009, we entered into several foreign currency forward
    contracts to mitigate the foreign currency risk related to
    certain balance sheet items. We have not elected hedge
    accounting for these items. As of December 31, 2009, the
    aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency
    contracts was $188.0 million. The fair value of these
    contracts was a net asset of $3.8 million. Net gains of
    $2.5 million were recognized as a component of other income
    (expense), net related to these contracts in the year ended
    December 31, 2009.

9.    

Indebtedness  

Our indebtedness is summarized as follows:

The following is a summary description of our principal
    indebtedness as of December 31, 2009.

Senior
    Notes   

On March 4, 2008, we issued $450.0 million aggregate
    principal amount of 6.0% Senior Notes due March 1,
    2013 and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of
    6.875% Senior Notes due March 1, 2018 at 99.886% and

F-29

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

99.184% of par, respectively. The discount is amortized as
    additional interest expense over the period from issuance
    through maturity. These notes are senior unsecured obligations.
    Interest on the notes is payable March 1 and September 1 of each
    year. The notes may be redeemed at our option at any time at
    100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest and a
    specified make-whole amount. The notes contain a change of
    control provision that may require us to purchase the notes
    under certain circumstances. There is also an interest rate
    adjustment feature that requires us to pay interest at an
    increased interest rate on the notes if the credit rating on the
    notes declines below investment grade. Offering costs of
    approximately $8.0 million have been recorded as debt
    issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet and are
    amortized as additional interest expense using the effective
    interest rate method over the period from issuance through
    maturity.

Upon the issuance of the debt we entered into interest rate swap
    contracts where we received a fixed rate and paid a variable
    rate, as further described in Note 8,  Derivative
    Instruments  to our Consolidated Financial Statements. These
    contracts have been subsequently terminated. Upon termination of
    these swaps, the carrying amount of the 6.875% Senior Notes
    due in 2018 was increased by $62.8 million. This increase
    is amortized using the effective interest rate method over the
    remaining life of the Senior Notes and is being recognized as a
    reduction of interest expense.

We used the proceeds of this borrowing, along with cash and the
    proceeds from the liquidation of marketable securities, to repay
    the full $1,500.0 million outstanding under the term loan
    facility we had entered into in July 2007 in connection with the
    funding of our June 2007 common stock tender offer. This term
    loan facility expired upon repayment.

Revolving
    Credit Facility   

We have a $360.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit
    facility, which may be used for future working capital and
    general corporate purposes. The facility terminates in June
    2012. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were no
    borrowings under this credit facility and we were in compliance
    with applicable covenants.

Biogen-Domp    

As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, Biogen-Domp  SRL, a
    consolidated joint venture, has a loan balance of
    12.0 million Euros ($17.2 million) and
    12.0 million Euros ($16.7 million), respectively.
    These balances represent a line of credit from us and Domp 
    Farmaceutici SpA of 24.0 million Euros, half of which has
    been eliminated for purposes of presenting our consolidated
    financial position as it is an intercompany loan. Borrowings
    under this line of credit are to be made equally between the
    partners, with any repayments paid in a similar manner. The loan
    was originally due June 1, 2009; however, a new loan was
    subsequently executed with a maturity date of December 1,
    2011. The interest rate on the line of credit under the new
    agreements is determined at a rate of three month Euro LIBOR
    plus 150 basis points and was 2.2% as of December 31,
    2009. The interest rate is reset quarterly and payable quarterly
    in arrears.

Notes
    Payable to Fumedica   

As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the notes payable to
    Fumedica have a present value of 31.2 million Swiss Francs
    ($30.0 million) and 41.2 million Swiss Francs
    ($38.6 million), respectively. The notes, which were
    entered into in connection with the settlement of various
    agreements associated with Fumedica, are non-interest bearing,
    have been discounted for financial statement presentation
    purposes and are being accreted at a rate of 5.75% and are
    payable in a series of payments through June 2018.

F-30

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Debt
    Maturity   

Our total debt matures as follows:

The fair value of our debt is disclosed in Note 6,  Fair
    Value Measurements  to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

10.    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

Preferred
    Stock   

Preferred stock was comprised of the following:

We have 8,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock authorized, of
    which 1,750,000 shares have been designated as
    Series A Preferred Stock and 1,000,000 shares have
    been designated as Series X Junior Participating Preferred
    Stock. The balance may be issued without a vote or action of
    stockholders from time to time in classes or series with the
    designations, powers, preferences, and the relative,
    participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of
    each such class or series and any qualifications, limitations or
    restrictions thereon as set forth in the stock certificate. Any
    such Preferred Stock may rank prior to common stock as to
    dividend rights, liquidation preference or both, and may have
    full or limited voting rights and may be convertible into shares
    of common stock. As of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    there were 8,221 shares of Series A Preferred Stock
    issued and outstanding. These shares carry a liquidation
    preference of $67 and are convertible into 60 shares of
    common stock per share of Preferred Stock. No other shares of
    Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding as of
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Stockholder
    Rights Plan   

In January 2009, our Board of Directors voted to terminate our
    stockholders rights plan effective as of January 30, 2009.
    The plan was scheduled to expire on July 26, 2011 and was
    originally adopted by the Board of Directors in 1997. Under the
    rights plan, each share of our common stock had one
     right  attached to it that entitled the holder to
    purchase our Series X Junior Participating Preferred Stock
    under the circumstances specified in the rights plan. As a
    result of our Board of Director s action, no rights are
    outstanding or exercisable.

Stock
    Repurchase Programs   

In October 2009, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock with
    repurchased shares being retired. This repurchase program does
    not have an expiration date. As of December 31, 2009,
    approximately 8.8 million shares at a cost of
    $422.4 million were repurchased under this

F-31

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

authorization, all of which were retired. From January 1,
    2010 through February 5, 2010, we repurchased approximately
    an additional 5.4 million shares under this program at a
    total cost of approximately $289.4 million, all of which
    were also retired. Approximately $288.2 million remains
    available for the repurchase of our common stock under the 2009
    program.

In October 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common
    stock. As of December 31, 2009, all shares under this
    program have been repurchased as approximately 7.2 million
    shares of our common stock were repurchased in 2009 for
    approximately $328.8 million. In 2008, approximately
    12.8 million shares of our common stock were repurchased
    under this program for approximately $738.9 million.

Reclassifications   

The adoption of a newly issued accounting standard for
    noncontrolling interests on January 1, 2009, changed the
    accounting and reporting for our minority interests by
    recharacterizing them as noncontrolling interests and
    classifying them as a separate component of total
    shareholders  equity in our accompanying consolidated
    balance sheets and consolidated statements of shareholders 
    equity. Additionally, net income attributable to noncontrolling
    interest is now shown separately from net income in the
    consolidated statements of income. As a result, prior year
    amounts related to noncontrolling interest have been
    reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This
    reclassification had no effect on our previously reported
    financial position or results of operations.

In the year ended December 31, 2008, we reclassified
    amounts within our consolidated statement of shareholders 
    equity, resulting in an approximately $78.6 million
    correction in Additional Paid-in Capital and Retained Earnings
    (Accumulated Deficit) balances in connection with the
    re-issuance of treasury stock at a loss.

In the year ended December 31, 2007 we reclassified amounts
    within our consolidated statements of equity, resulting in an
    approximately $48.0 million correction in the treasury
    stock and common stock balances.

Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows:

F-32

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following amounts were not included in the calculation of
    net income per basic and diluted share because their effects
    were anti-dilutive:

Earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2009
    reflects, on a weighted average basis, the repurchase of
    16.0 million shares of our common stock under our 2009
    and 2006 share repurchase programs.

As a result of our 2007 tender offer, earnings per share for the
    year ended December 31, 2007 reflects, on a weighted
    average basis, the repurchase of 56.4 million shares
    as of June 27, 2007, the date the obligation was incurred,
    in accordance with accounting standards for earning per share.

12.    

Share-based
    Payments  

Share-based
    Compensation Expense   

The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense
    included within our consolidated statements of income:

F-33

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Our share-based compensation programs include stock options,
    time-vested restricted stock units, performance-vested
    restricted stock units, restricted stock and shares issued under
    our ESPP. The following table summarizes share-based
    compensation expense associated with each of these programs:

Windfall tax benefits from vesting of stock awards, exercises of
    stock options and ESPP participation were $3.4 million,
    $28.0 million, and $69.7 million in 2009, 2008, and
    2007, respectively. These amounts have been calculated under the
    alternative transition method in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

As of December 31, 2009, unrecognized compensation cost
    related to unvested share-based compensation was approximately
    $178.1 million, net of estimated forfeitures. We expect to
    recognize the cost of these unvested awards over a
    weighted-average period of 1.4 years.

Share-based
    Compensation Plans   

We have three share-based compensation plans pursuant to which
    awards are currently being made: (1) the Biogen Idec Inc.
    2006 Non-Employee Directors Equity Plan (2006 Directors
    Plan); (2) the Biogen Idec Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan
    (2008 Omnibus Plan); and (3) the Biogen Idec Inc. 1995
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). We have six share-based
    compensation plans pursuant to which outstanding awards have
    been made, but from which no further awards can or will be made:
    (i) the IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation 1993 Non-Employee
    Directors Stock Option Plan; (ii) the IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation 1988 Stock Option Plan; (iii) the Biogen, Inc.
    1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan; (iv) the Biogen, Inc.
    1987 Scientific Board Stock Option Plan; (v) the Biogen
    Idec Inc. 2003 Omnibus Equity Plan (2003 Omnibus Plan); and
    (vi) the Biogen Idec Inc. 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan (2005
    Omnibus Plan). We have not made any awards pursuant to the 2005
    Omnibus Plan since our stockholders approved the 2008 Omnibus
    Plan and do not intend to make any awards pursuant to the 2005
    Omnibus Plan in the future, except that unused shares under the
    2005 Omnibus Plan have been carried over for use under the 2008
    Omnibus Plan.

Directors
    Plan  

In May 2006, our stockholders approved the 2006 Directors
    Plan for share-based awards to our directors. Awards granted
    from the 2006 Directors Plan may include options, shares of
    restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, stock
    appreciation rights and other awards in such amounts and with
    such terms and conditions as may be determined by a committee of
    our Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of the plan.
    We have reserved a total of 850,000 shares of common stock
    for issuance under the 2006 Directors Plan. The
    2006 Directors Plan provides that awards other than stock
    options and stock appreciation rights will be counted against
    the total number of shares reserved under the plan in a 1.5-to-1
    ratio.

F-34

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Omnibus
    Plans  

In June 2008, our stockholders approved the 2008 Omnibus Plan
    for share-based awards to our employees. Awards granted from the
    2008 Omnibus Plan may include options, shares of restricted
    stock awards, restricted stock units, performance shares, shares
    of phantom stock, stock appreciation rights and other awards in
    such amounts and with such terms and conditions as may be
    determined by a committee of our Board of Directors, subject to
    the provisions of the plan. Shares of common stock available for
    issuance under the 2008 Omnibus Plan consist of
    15.0 million shares reserved for this purpose, plus shares
    of common stock that remained available for issuance under the
    2005 Omnibus Plan on the date that our stockholders approved the
    2008 Omnibus Plan, plus shares that are subject to awards under
    the 2005 Omnibus Plan which remain unissued upon the
    cancellation, surrender, exchange or termination of such awards.
    The 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan provides that awards other than
    stock options and stock appreciation rights will be counted
    against the total number of shares available under the plan in a
    1.5-to-1 ratio.

Stock
    Options   

All stock option grants to employees are for a ten-year term and
    generally vest one-fourth per year over four years on the
    anniversary of the date of grant, provided the employee remains
    continuously employed with us. Stock option grants to directors
    are for ten-year terms and generally vest as follows:
    (1) grants made on the date of a director s initial
    election to our Board of Directors vest one-third per year over
    three years on the anniversary of the date of grant, and
    (2) grants made for service on our Board of Directors vest
    on the first anniversary of the date of grant, provided in each
    case that the director continues to serve on our Board of
    Directors through the vesting date. Options granted under all
    plans are exercisable at a price per share not less than the
    fair market value of the underlying common stock on the date of
    grant. The estimated fair value of options, including the effect
    of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the options 
    vesting periods. The fair value of the stock option grants
    awarded in 2009, 2008, and 2007 was estimated as of the date of
    grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the
    following weighted-average assumptions:

The expected life of options granted is derived using assumed
    exercise rates based on historical exercise patterns and
    represents the period of time that options granted are expected
    to be outstanding. Expected stock price volatility is based upon
    implied volatility for our exchange-traded options and other
    factors, including historical volatility. After assessing all
    available information on either historical volatility, implied
    volatility, or both, we have concluded that a combination of
    both historical and implied volatility provides the best
    estimate of expected volatility. The risk-free interest rate
    used is determined by the market yield curve based upon
    risk-free interest rates established by the Federal Reserve, or
    non-coupon bonds that have maturities equal to the expected
    term. The dividend yield of zero is based upon the fact that we
    have not historically granted cash dividends, and do not expect
    to issue dividends in the foreseeable future. Stock options
    granted prior to January 1, 2006 were valued based on the
    grant date fair value of those awards, using the Black-Scholes
    option pricing model, as previously calculated for pro-forma
    disclosures.

F-35

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A summary of stock option activity is presented in the following
    table:

Of the options outstanding, 8.3 million were exercisable as
    of December 31, 2009. The exercisable options had a
    weighted-average exercise price of $52.80. The aggregate
    intrinsic value of options exercisable as of December 31,
    2009 was $45.2 million. The weighted average remaining
    contractual term for options exercisable as of December 31,
    2009 was 3.8 years.

A total of 10.3 million vested and expected to vest options
    were outstanding as of December 31, 2009. These vested and
    expected to vest options had a weighted average exercise price
    of $52.87 and an aggregated intrinsic value of
    $51.0 million. The weighted average remaining contractual
    term of vested and expected to vest options as of
    December 31, 2009 was 4.6 years.

The total intrinsic values of options exercised in 2009, 2008,
    and 2007, were $6.7 million, $85.1 million, and
    $226.7 million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic
    values of options outstanding as of December 31, 2009 was
    $52.8 million. The weighted average remaining
    contractual term for options outstanding as of December 31,
    2009 was 4.8 years.

A summary of the amount of tax benefit realized for stock
    options and cash received from the exercise of stock options is
    as follows:

F-36

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Time-Vested
    Restricted Stock Units   

Time-vested restricted stock units (RSUs) awarded to employees
    generally vest no sooner than one-third per year over three
    years on the anniversary of the date of grant, or upon the third
    anniversary of the date of the grant, provided the employee
    remains continuously employed with us, except as otherwise
    provided in the plan. Shares of our common stock will be
    delivered to the employee upon vesting, subject to payment of
    applicable withholding taxes. RSUs awarded to directors for
    service on our Board of Directors vest on the first anniversary
    of the date of grant, provided in each case that the director
    continues to serve on our Board of Directors through the vesting
    date. Shares of our common stock will be delivered to the
    director upon vesting and are not subject to any withholding
    taxes. The fair value of all RSUs is based on the market value
    of our stock on the date of grant. Compensation expense,
    including the effect of forfeitures, is recognized over the
    applicable service period.

A summary of RSU activity is presented in the following table:

F-37

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Performance-Vested
    Restricted Stock Units   

A summary of performance-vested restricted stock units (PVRSUs)
    activity is presented in the following table:

2009
    Grant Activity  

We apply a graded vesting expense methodology when accounting
    for the PVRSUs issued in 2009. In 2009, approximately 325,000
    PVRSUs were granted with a weighted average grant date fair
    value of $49.42 per share.

The number of PVRSUs reflected as granted represents the target
    number of shares that are eligible to vest in full or in part
    and are earned subject to the attainment of certain performance
    criteria established at the beginning of the performance period,
    which ended December 31, 2009. Participants may ultimately
    earn up to 200% of the target number of shares granted in the
    event that the maximum performance thresholds are attained.
    Accordingly, additional PVRSUs may be issued upon final
    determination of the number of awards earned.

Once the earned number of performance-vested awards has been
    determined, the earned PVRSUs will then vest in three equal
    increments on (1) the later of the first anniversary of the
    grant date or the date of results determination; (2) the
    second anniversary of the grant date; and (3) the third
    anniversary of the grant date. The vesting of these awards is
    also subject to the respective employees  continued
    employment. Compensation expense associated with these PVRSUs is
    initially based upon the number of shares expected to vest after
    assessing the probability that certain performance criteria will
    be met and the associated targeted payout level that is
    forecasted will be achieved, net of estimated forfeitures.
    Cumulative adjustments are recorded quarterly to reflect
    subsequent changes in the estimated outcome of
    performance-related conditions until the date results are
    determined.

2007
    Grant Activity  

In 2007, our Board of Directors awarded a total of 120,000
    PVRSUs to Dr. Cecil Pickett, our former President, Research
    and Development. Vesting of these PVRSUs was subject to certain
    performance criteria established at the beginning of each of
    four performance periods, beginning January 1 on each of 2007,
    2008, 2009 and 2010, and Dr. Pickett s continued
    employment through the end of the respective performance
    periods. In February 2008, a total of 27,000 shares were
    issued based upon the attainment of performance criteria set for
    2007. An additional

F-38

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

30,000 shares were issued in February 2009 based on the
    attainment of performance criteria set for 2008. No additional
    shares were issued to Dr. Pickett in 2009, 2008 and 2007.
    Dr. Pickett retired from the position of President,
    Research and Development effective October 5, 2009.
    Accordingly, no additional PVRSUs awarded to Dr. Pickett
    will vest or be issued. Expense previously recognized in
    relation to unvested awards was reversed in 2009.

Prior
    Period Grant Activity  

In the first quarter of 2006, our Board of Directors awarded
    100,000 PVRSUs to our CEO, under the 2005 Omnibus Plan, subject
    to certain 2006 financial performance criteria. In February
    2007, our Board of Directors determined that the performance
    criteria had been attained and that 100,000 PVRSUs would convert
    into shares of our common stock. A total of 58,250 shares
    were issued, reflecting the fact that certain shares were
    withheld for income tax purposes.

In the third quarter of 2005, we granted 1.2 million
    PVRSUs, to be settled in shares of our common stock, to a group
    of approximately 200 senior employees excluding our CEO. On
    September 14, 2006, 758,262 shares vested for which
    510,859 shares were issued, reflecting the fact that
    certain shares were withheld for income tax purposes. On
    March 14, 2007, 258,387 shares vested based on the
    level of performance versus the pre-established goals, for which
    a total of 172,054 shares were issued, reflecting the fact
    that certain shares were withheld for income tax purposes. No
    other shares vested in relation to this 2005 grant.

Restricted
    Stock Awards   

In 2005, we awarded restricted common stock to our employees
    under the 2005 Omnibus Plan and the 2003 Omnibus Plan. The
    restricted stock awards (RSAs) granted under the 2003 Omnibus
    Plan vested in full on the third anniversary of the date of
    grant for employees that remained continuously employed with us
    through the vesting dates. The RSAs granted under the 2005
    Omnibus Plan vested at a rate of approximately one-third per
    year over three years on the anniversary of the date of grant
    for employees that remained continuously employed with us
    through the vesting dates.

The fair value of all time-vested RSAs is based on the market
    value of our stock on the date of grant. Compensation expense,
    including the effect of forfeitures, is recognized over the
    applicable service period. All awards of restricted stock were
    fully vested as of December 31, 2008.

A summary of RSA activity is presented in the following table:

F-39

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

ESPP   

The purchase price of common stock under the ESPP is equal to
    85% of the lower of (1) the market value per share of the
    common stock on the participant s entry date into an
    offering period or (2) the market value per share of the
    common stock on the purchase date. However, for each participant
    whose entry date is other than the start date of the offering
    period, the amount shall in no event be less than the market
    value per share of the common stock as of the beginning of the
    related offering period. The fair value of the discounted
    purchases made under the employee stock purchase plan are
    calculated using the Black-Scholes model. The fair value of the
    look-back provision plus the 15% discount is recognized as
    compensation expense over the purchase period. We apply a graded
    vesting approach since our ESPP provides for multiple purchase
    periods and is, in substance, a series of linked awards.

The table below provides a summary of shares issued under our
    ESPP for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively:

13.    

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the
    following:

Unrealized holding gains on securities available for sale is
    shown net of tax of $(6.6) million and $(6.2) million
    as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Unrealized
    gains (losses) on foreign currency forward contracts is shown
    net of tax of $0.3 million, and $3.9 million as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The unfunded
    status of pension and retirement benefit plans is shown net of
    tax as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Tax amounts in both
    years were immaterial. See Note 15,  Employee Benefit
    Plans  to our Consolidated Financial Statements for
    discussion of unfunded status of pension and retirement benefit
    plans.

Amounts comprising noncontrolling interests, as reported in our
    consolidated statements of equity as of December 31, 2009
    and 2008 included accumulated translation adjustments of
    $2.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively.

Comprehensive income (loss) and its components are presented in
    the consolidated statements of shareholders  equity.

F-40

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

14.    

Other
    Consolidated Financial Statement Detail  

Other
    Income (Expense), Net   

Components of other income (expense), net, are summarized as
    follows:

Interest
    Expense  

In 2009, we incurred interest costs of $69.7 million. This
    amount was reduced by $28.5 million because we capitalized
    interest related to the construction of our large scale
    manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark. In addition,
    in 2009, approximately $5.4 million was recorded as a
    reduction due to the amortization of the deferred gain
    associated with the termination of an interest rate swap in
    December 2008.

In 2008, we incurred interest costs of $66.3 million. This
    amount was reduced by $23.2 million of capitalized interest
    on the manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark. In
    addition, we incurred approximately $8.9 million of
    expenses related to hedge ineffectiveness on interest rate swaps
    executed in March 2008.

In 2007, we incurred interest costs of $50.6 million, which
    were reduced by $10.1 million of capitalized interest on
    the manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark.

Impairment
    on Investments  

In April 2009, we implemented newly issued accounting standards
    which provided guidance for recognition and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments. The adoption of the guidance did not have a
    material impact on our financial position or results of
    operations; however, this standard amended the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment model for marketable debt securities. The impairment
    model for equity securities was not affected. Refer to
    Note 7,  Financial Instruments  to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional information on the adoption
    of this guidance.

In 2009, we recognized impairment losses of $7.0 million on
    our strategic investments and non-marketable securities. In
    addition, during 2008 and 2007, we recognized $18.6 million
    and $18.4 million, respectively, in charges for the
    impairment of strategic investments and non-marketable
    securities that were determined to be
     other-than-temporary. 

In 2009, we recognized $3.6 million in charges for the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on marketable debt securities. For 2008 and 2007, we
    recognized $41.7 million and $7.5 million,
    respectively, in charges for the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment of marketable debt securities primarily related to
    mortgage and asset-backed securities.

F-41

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Reclassification  

The adoption of a new issued accounting standard for
    noncontrolling interests on January 1, 2009, changed the
    accounting and reporting for our minority interests by
    recharacterizing them as noncontrolling interest. Prior year
    amounts related to noncontrolling interest, historically
    reflected as a component of other income (expense), net, have
    been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
    Amounts previously reported as minority interest are now shown
    separately from net income in the accompanying consolidated
    statements of income and total $6.9 million,
    $6.9 million, and $(58.4) million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. This
    reclassification had no effect on our previously reported
    financial position or results of operations. Refer to
    Note 10,  Shareholders  Equity  to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on
    the adoption of this guidance.

Other
    Current Assets   

Other current assets consist of the following:

Property,
    Plant and Equipment, net   

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at historical cost,
    net of accumulated depreciation. Components of property, plant
    and equipment, net are summarized as follows:

In 2009, 2008, and 2007, we capitalized to construction in
    progress approximately $28.4 million, $23.2 million
    and $10.1 million, respectively, of interest costs
    primarily related to the development of our large-scale biologic
    manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark.

As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the construction in
    progress balance related to the construction of our large-scale
    biologic manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark
    totaled $441.2 million and $388.4 million,
    respectively.

F-42

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Depreciation expense is summarized as follows:

Accrued
    Expenses and Other   

Accrued expenses and other consists of the following:

Gain
    on Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment, net   

In 2008, as part of the lease agreement described in
    Note 18,  Commitments and Contingencies  to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements, we sold the development
    rights on a parcel of land in Cambridge, MA for
    $11.4 million in a non-monetary transaction and we recorded
    a pre-tax gain of approximately $9.2 million on the sale.

15.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

401(k)
    Savings Plan   

We maintain a 401(k) Savings Plan which is available to
    substantially all regular employees in the U.S. over the
    age of 21. Participants may make voluntary contributions. We
    make matching contributions according to the 401(k) Savings
    Plan s matching formula. Beginning in January 2008, all
    past and current matching contributions will vest immediately.
    Previously, the matching contributions vested over four years of
    service by the employee. Participant contributions vest
    immediately. The 401(k) Savings Plan also holds certain
    transition contributions on behalf of participants who
    previously participated in the Biogen, Inc. Retirement Plan. The
    expense related to our 401(k) Savings Plan primarily consists of
    our matching contributions.

Deferred
    Compensation Plan    

We maintain a non-qualified deferred compensation plan, known as
    the Supplemental Savings Plan (SSP), that allows a select group
    of management employees in the U.S. to defer a portion of
    their compensation. The SSP also provides certain credits to
    highly compensated U.S. employees, which are paid by the
    company. These credits are known as the Restoration Match. The
    deferred compensation amounts are accrued when earned. Such
    deferred compensation is distributable in cash in accordance
    with the rules of the SSP. Deferred compensation amounts

F-43

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

under such plan as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 totaled
    approximately $63.6 million and $48.5 million,
    respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities in
    the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The SSP also holds
    certain transition contributions on behalf of participants who
    previously participated in the Biogen, Inc. Retirement Plan.
    Beginning in 2008, the Restoration Match vests immediately.
    Previously, the Restoration Match and transition contributions
    vested over four and seven years of service, respectively, by
    the employee. Participant contributions vest immediately.
    Distributions to participants can be either in one lump sum
    payment or annual installments as elected by the participants.

Pension
    Plan   

We currently maintain retiree benefit plans which include, a
    defined benefit plan for employees in our German affiliate and
    other insignificant defined benefit plans in certain other
    countries in which we have an operating presence.

The obligations under the German plan totaled $5.7 million
    and $4.8 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Income
    Tax Expense   

Income before income tax provision and the income tax expense
    consist of the following:

F-44

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Deferred
    Tax Assets and Liabilities   

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are summarized as follows:

Tax
    Rate   

Reconciliation between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate
    and our effective tax rate is summarized as follows:

As of December 31, 2009, we had net operating losses and
    general business credit carry forwards for federal income tax
    purposes of approximately $59.3 million and
    $3.2 million, respectively, which begin to expire in 2020.
    Additionally, for state income tax purposes, we had net
    operating loss carry forwards of approximately
    $195.8 million, which begin to expire in 2010. For state
    income tax purposes, we also had research and investment credit
    carry forwards of approximately $49.2 million, of which
    approximately $46.9 million begin to expire in 2010, with
    the remainder having no prescribed expiration date.

In assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets, we
    have considered whether it is more likely than not that some
    portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
    The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent
    upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods
    in which those temporary differences become deductible. In
    making this determination, under the applicable financial
    reporting standards, we are allowed to consider the scheduled
    reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable
    income, and tax planning strategies. Our estimates of future
    taxable income take into consideration, among other items, our
    estimates of future income tax deductions related to the
    exercise of stock options. Based upon the level of historical

F-45

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

taxable income and income tax liability and projections for
    future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred tax
    assets are utilizable, we believe it is more likely than not
    that we will realize the benefits of our entire deferred tax
    assets. In the event that actual results differ from our
    estimates or we adjust our estimates in future periods, we may
    need to establish a valuation allowance, which could materially
    impact our financial position and results of operations.

As of December 31, 2009, undistributed foreign earnings of
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    included in consolidated retained earnings aggregated
    approximately $2.2 billion. We intend to reinvest these
    earnings indefinitely in operations outside the U.S. It is
    not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that
    might be payable if such earnings were remitted to the U.S.

Accounting
    for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   

Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted a new accounting
    standard concerning the accounting for income tax contingencies.
    This standard clarified the accounting for uncertainty in income
    taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements.
    As a result of the adoption, we recognized a reduction in the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $14.2 million,
    which was recorded as a $1.8 million reduction to the
    January 1, 2007 balance of our accumulated deficit, a
    $9.1 million reduction in goodwill and a $3.3 million
    increase in our deferred tax liability.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of our
    unrecognized tax benefits is summarized as follows:

We and our subsidiaries are routinely examined by various taxing
    authorities. We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal
    jurisdiction, and various states and foreign jurisdictions. With
    few exceptions, we are no longer subject to U.S. federal
    tax examination for years before 2007 or state, local, or
     non-U.S. income 
    tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2001.

Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits as of
    December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 are $42.8 million,
    $155.1 million, and $110.5 million (net of the federal
    benefit on state issues), respectively, of unrecognized tax
    benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective income
    tax rate in future periods.

We do not anticipate any significant changes in our positions in
    the next twelve months other than expected settlements which
    have been classified as current liabilities within the
    accompanying balance sheet.

We recognize potential interest and penalties accrued related to
    unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. During 2009 we
    recognized a net interest benefit of approximately
    $3.1 million. During 2008 and 2007, we recognized
    approximately $16.1 million and $14.5 million in
    interest expense, respectively. We have accrued approximately
    $33.1 million and $47.7 million for the payment of
    interest as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Contingency  

In September 2006, the Massachusetts Department of Revenue (DOR)
    issued a Notice of Assessment against Biogen Idec MA, Inc. for
    $38.9 million of corporate excise tax for 2002, which
    includes associated interest and penalties. The assessment
    asserts that the portion of sales attributable to Massachusetts,
    the computation of our

F-46

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

research and development credits, and the availability of
    certain deductions were not appropriate, resulting in unpaid
    taxes for those years. In December 2006, we filed an abatement
    application with the DOR seeking abatements for
     2001-2003, 
    which was denied. In July 2007, we filed a petition with the
    Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board seeking abatements of
    corporate excise tax for
     2001-2003 
    and adjustments in certain credits and credit carryforwards for
     2001-2003. 
    We anticipate that the trial will take place in 2010. In the
    fourth quarter of 2009, the DOR completed its audit fieldwork of
    our 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax filings. We believe that the DOR may
    make an assessment for taxes, interest and penalties claiming
    that our computation and deductions for these periods were also
    inappropriate. We believe that positions taken in our tax
    filings are valid and we have meritorious defenses to the
    assessment. We will vigorously oppose the assessment through the
    appeals and litigation process.

Our tax filings for 2007 and 2008 have not yet been audited by
    the DOR but have been prepared in a manner consistent with prior
    filings which may result in an assessment for those years. Due
    to tax law changes effective January 1, 2009, the
    computations and deductions at issue in previous tax filings
    will not be part of our tax filings starting in 2009.

There is a possibility that we may not prevail in defending all
    of our assertions with the DOR. If these matters are resolved
    unfavorably in the future, the resolution could have a material
    adverse impact on our future effective tax rate and our results
    of operations.

Settlements  

During 2007, the IRS completed its examination of our
    consolidated federal income tax returns for our fiscal years
    2003 and 2004. We subsequently paid amounts related to issues
    agreed to with the IRS, appealed several other issues and
    adjusted our income tax contingencies based on the result of the
    examination.

During 2009, the IRS completed its examination of our
    consolidated income tax returns for our fiscal years 2005 and
    2006. We then reached an agreement to pay an amount to settle
    all matters related to the 2005 and 2006 years and resolve
    those matters under appeal related to 2003 and 2004. There are
    no remaining U.S. federal income tax contingencies for the
    periods prior to tax year 2007.

During 2009, the California Franchise Tax Board completed its
    examination of our worldwide income tax returns for fiscal years
    2003 through 2007 and issued assessments for each period. We
    agreed to these assessments and will make payments to settle all
    matters related to these audits. There are no remaining
    California income tax contingencies related to the periods prior
    to tax year 2008.

We have also reached agreement with Arizona concerning our
    outstanding matters in that state and completed an audit of our
    transfer pricing in Denmark.

As a result of these 2009 domestic settlements, and completion
    of the related audits, we have made payments totaling
    approximately $118.0 million during 2009 and will make
    payments of approximately $105.0 million in the first half
    of 2010, which have been accrued as of December 31, 2009.
    We have also reduced our net unrecognized tax benefits by
    approximately $123.5 million, of which approximately
    $28.0 million was recorded as a benefit in our consolidated
    statement of income in 2009.

In connection with our business strategy, we have entered into
    various collaboration agreements which provide us with rights to
    develop, produce and market products using certain know-how,
    technology and patent rights maintained by our collaborative
    partners. Terms of the various collaboration agreements may
    require us to make milestone payments upon the achievement of
    certain product research and development objectives and pay
    royalties on future sales, if any, of commercial products
    resulting from the collaboration.

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a newly issued
    accounting standard for the accounting and disclosure of an
    entity s collaborative arrangements. This newly issued
    standard prescribes that certain transactions between

F-47

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

collaborators be recorded in the income statement on either a
    gross or net basis, depending on the characteristics of the
    collaboration relationship, and provides for enhanced disclosure
    of collaborative relationships. In accordance with this
    guidance, we must also evaluate our collaborative agreements for
    proper income statement classification based on the nature of
    the underlying activity. Amounts due from our collaborative
    partners related to development activities are generally
    reflected as a reduction of research and development expense
    because the performance of contract development services is not
    central to our operations. For collaborations with
    commercialized products, if we are the principal (as defined in
    reporting revenue as a principal versus net as an agent as
    required by the  Revenue Recognition  Topic of the
    Codification) we record revenue and the corresponding operating
    costs in their respective line items within our consolidated
    statements of income. If we are not the principal, we record
    operating costs as a reduction of revenue. The guidance
    describes the principal as the party who is responsible for
    delivering the product or service to the customer, has latitude
    to determine price, and has the risks and rewards of providing
    product or service to the customer, including inventory and
    credit risk. The adoption of this newly issued accounting
    standard did not impact our financial position or results of
    operations; however it resulted in enhanced disclosures for our
    collaboration activities.

Roche
    Group   Genentech   

We collaborate with the Roche Group, through its wholly-owned
    member Genentech, Inc., on the development and commercialization
    of RITUXAN. We also have rights to collaborate with Genentech on
    the development and commercialization of (1) anti-CD20
    products that Genentech acquires or develops, which we refer to
    as New Anti-CD20 Products, and (2) anti-CD20 products that
    Genentech licenses from a third party, which we refer to as
    Third Party Anti-CD20 Products. Currently, there is only one New
    Anti-CD20 Product, ocrelizumab, and only one Third Party
    Anti-CD20 Product, GA101. Our collaboration rights for New
    Anti-CD20 Products are limited to the U.S. and our
    collaboration rights for Third Party Anti-CD20 Products are
    dependent upon Genentech s underlying license rights. A
    joint development committee (JDC) composed of three members from
    each company must unanimously approve a development plan for
    each specific indication of certain pharmaceutical products, and
    Genentech has responsibility for implementing JDC approved
    development plans in accordance with the provisions of our
    collaboration agreement. In the event that we undergo a change
    in control, as defined in the collaboration agreement, Genentech
    has the right to present an offer to buy the rights to RITUXAN,
    and we must either accept Genentech s offer or purchase
    Genentech s rights to RITUXAN on the same terms as its
    offer. If Genentech presents such an offer, then they will be
    deemed concurrently to have exercised a right, in exchange for a
    royalty on net sales in the U.S. of any anti-CD20 product
    acquired or developed by Genentech or any anti-CD20 product that
    Genentech licenses from a third party that is developed under
    the agreement, to purchase our interest in each such product.
    Our collaboration with Genentech was created through a
    contractual arrangement and not through a joint venture or other
    legal entity.

While Genentech is responsible for the worldwide manufacturing
    of RITUXAN, development and commercialization rights and
    responsibilities under this collaboration are divided as follows:

U.S.   

We share with Genentech co-exclusive rights to develop,
    commercialize and market RITUXAN and New Anti-CD20 Products
    in the U.S. Although we contribute to the marketing and
    continued development of RITUXAN, we have a limited sales force
    dedicated to RITUXAN and limited development activity. Genentech
    is primarily responsible for the commercialization of RITUXAN in
    the U.S. Its responsibilities include selling and
    marketing, customer service, order entry, distribution, shipping
    and billing, and other administrative support. Genentech also
    incurs the majority of continuing development costs for RITUXAN.

Canada   

We and Genentech have assigned our rights to develop,
    commercialize and market RITUXAN, in Canada to Roche.

F-48

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Outside
    the U.S. and Canada   

We have granted Genentech exclusive rights to develop,
    commercialize and market RITUXAN outside the U.S. and
    Canada. Under the terms of separate sublicense agreements
    between Genentech and Roche, development and commercialization
    of RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada is the
    responsibility of Roche and its sublicensees. We do not have any
    direct contractual arrangements with Roche or it sublicensees.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consists of
    (1) our share of pretax co-promotion profits in the
    U.S. (2) reimbursement of our selling and development
    expenses in the U.S.; and (3) revenue on sales of RITUXAN
    in the rest of world, which consist of our share of pretax
    co-promotion profits in Canada and royalty revenue on sales of
    RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada by Roche, and its
    sublicensees. Pre-tax co-promotion profits are calculated and
    paid to us by Genentech in the U.S. and by Roche in Canada.
    Pre-tax co-promotion profits consist of U.S. and Canadian
    sales of RITUXAN to third-party customers net of discounts and
    allowances less the cost to manufacture RITUXAN, third-party
    royalty expenses, distribution, selling, and marketing expenses,
    and joint development expenses incurred by Genentech, Roche and
    us. We record our royalty and co-promotion profits revenue on
    sales of RITUXAN in the rest of world on a cash basis.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist of the
    following:

Under the collaboration agreement, our current pretax
    co-promotion profit-sharing formula, which resets annually,
    provides for a 30% share of co-promotion profits on the first
    $50.0 million of co-promotion operating profit with our
    share increasing to 40% if co-promotion operating profits exceed
    $50.0 million. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, the 40% threshold
    was met during the first quarter.

Our agreement with Genentech provides that the successful
    development and commercialization of the first New Anti-CD20
    Product will decrease our percentage of co-promotion profits of
    the collaboration. Specifically, for each calendar year or
    portion thereof following the approval date of the first New
    Anti-CD20 Product, the pretax co-promotion profit-sharing
    formula for RITUXAN and New Anti-CD20 Products sold by us and
    Genentech will change as follows:

First New Anti-CD20 Product 

Biogen Idec s Share 

Co-promotion Operating Profits 

U.S. Gross Product Sales 

of Co-promotion Profits 

First $50 million(1)

Not Applicable

30

%

Greater than $50 million

Until such sales exceed $150 million in any calendar year(2)

38

%

Or

After such sales exceed $150 million in any calendar year until
    such sales exceed $350 million in any calendar year(3)

35

%

Or

After such sales exceed $350 million in any calendar year(4)

30

%

F-49

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

(1)  

Not applicable in the calendar year the first New Anti-CD20
    Product is approved if $50 million in co-promotion
    operating profits has already been achieved in such calendar
    year through sales of RITUXAN. 

(2)  

If we are recording our share of RITUXAN co-promotion profits at
    40%, upon the approval date of the first New Anti-CD20 Product,
    our share of co-promotion profits for RITUXAN and the New
    Anti-CD20 Product will be immediately reduced to 38% following
    the approval date of the first New Anti-CD20 Product until the
    $150 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales level is
    achieved. 

(3)  

If $150 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales is
    achieved in the same calendar year the first New Anti-CD20
    Product receives approval, then the 35% co-promotion
    profit-sharing rate will not be effective until January 1 of the
    following calendar year. Once the $150 million in first New
    Anti-CD20 Product sales level is achieved then our share of
    co-promotion profits for the balance of the year and all
    subsequent years (after the first $50 million in
    co-promotion operating profits in such years) will be 35% until
    the $350 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales level
    is achieved. 

(4)  

If $350 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales is
    achieved in the same calendar year that $150 million in new
    product sales is achieved, then the 30% co-promotion
    profit-sharing rate will not be effective until January 1 of the
    following calendar year (or January 1 of the second following
    calendar year if the first New Anti-CD20 Product receives
    approval and, in the same calendar year, the $150 million
    and $350 million in first New Anti-CD20 Product sales
    levels are achieved). Once the $350 million in first New
    Anti-CD20 Product sales level is achieved then our share of
    co-promotion profits for the balance of the year and all
    subsequent years will be 30%. 

We will participate in Third Party Anti-CD20 Products on similar
    financial terms as for ocrelizumab.

Currently, we record our share of the expenses incurred by the
    collaboration for the development of New Anti-CD20 Products and
    Third Party Anti-CD20 Products in research and development
    expense in our consolidated statements of income. We incurred
    $62.5 million, $43.6 million, and $26.1 million
    in development expense related to New Anti-CD20 Products and
    Third Party Anti-CD20 Products for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
    Reimbursement to Genentech for our share of these costs occurs
    through the net amount of co-promotion profits in the
    U.S. remitted to us. After a New Anti-CD20 Product or Third
    Party Anti-CD20 Product is approved, we will record our share of
    the development expenses related to that product as a reduction
    of our share of pretax co-promotion profits in revenues from
    unconsolidated joint business.

Elan   

We collaborate with Elan on the development, manufacture and
    commercialization of TYSABRI. Under the terms of our
    collaboration agreement, we manufacture TYSABRI and collaborate
    with Elan on the product s marketing, commercial
    distribution and ongoing development activities. The agreement
    is designed to effect an equal sharing of profits and losses
    generated by the activities of our collaboration. Under the
    agreement, however, once sales of TYSABRI exceeded specific
    thresholds, Elan was required to make milestone payments to us
    in order to continue sharing equally in the collaboration s
    results. As of December 31, 2009, Elan has made milestone
    payments to us of $75.0 million in the third quarter of
    2008 and $50.0 million in the first quarter of 2009. We
    have recorded these amounts as deferred revenue upon receipt and
    are recognizing the entire $125.0 million as product
    revenue in our consolidated statements of income over the term
    of the collaboration agreement based on a units of revenue
    method whereby the revenue recognized is based on the ratio of
    units shipped in the current period over the total units
    expected to be shipped over the remaining term of the
    collaboration. No additional milestone payments are required
    under the agreement to maintain the current profit sharing
    split. Our collaboration agreement provides Elan or us with the
    option to buy the rights to TYSABRI in the event that the other
    company undergoes a change of control (as defined in the
    collaboration agreement).

In the U.S., we sell TYSABRI to Elan who sells the product to
    third party distributors. Our sales price to Elan in the
    U.S. is set prior to the beginning of each quarterly period
    to effect an approximate equal sharing of the gross margin
    between Elan and us. We recognize revenue for sales in the
    U.S. of TYSABRI upon Elan s shipment of the

F-50

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

product to the third party distributors, at which time all
    revenue recognition criteria have been met. As of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had deferred revenue of
    $23.6 million and $6.2 million, respectively, for
    shipments to Elan that remained in Elan s ending inventory
    pending shipment of the product to the third party distributors.
    We incur manufacturing and distribution costs, research and
    development expenses, commercial expenses, and general and
    administrative expenses. We record these expenses to their
    respective line items within our consolidated statements of
    income when they are incurred. Research and development and
    sales and marketing expenses are shared equally with Elan and
    the reimbursement of these expenses is recorded as reductions of
    the respective expense categories. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded
    $25.3 million, $23.6 million, and $21.5 million,
    respectively, as reductions of research and development expense
    for reimbursements from Elan. In addition, for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded
    $62.5 million, $33.7 million, and $37.9 million,
    respectively, as reductions of selling, general and
    administrative expense for reimbursements from Elan.

In the rest of world, we are responsible for distributing
    TYSABRI to customers and are primarily responsible for all
    operating activities. Generally, we recognize revenue for sales
    of TYSABRI in the rest of world at the time of product delivery
    to our customers. Payments are made to Elan for their share of
    the rest of world net operating profits to effect an equal
    sharing of collaboration operating profit. These payments also
    include the reimbursement for our portion of third-party
    royalties that Elan pays on behalf of the collaboration relating
    to rest of world sales. These amounts are reflected in the
    collaboration profit sharing line in our consolidated statements
    of income. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
    2007, $215.9 million, $136.0 million, and
    $14.1 million, respectively, was reflected in the
    collaboration profit sharing line for our collaboration with
    Elan. As rest of world sales of TYSABRI increase, our
    collaboration profit sharing expense is expected to increase.

Acorda   

On June 30, 2009, we entered into a collaboration and
    license agreement with Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. (Acorda) to
    develop and commercialize products containing fampridine in
    markets outside the U.S. The transaction represents a
    sublicensing of an existing license agreement between Acorda and
    Elan. The parties have also entered into a related supply
    agreement. The $110.0 million upfront payment made on
    July 1, 2009 to Acorda was recorded as research and
    development expense during the second quarter 2009 as the
    product candidate had not received regulatory approval.
    Fampridine was approved in the U.S. on January 22, 2010
    under the trade name AMPYRA (dalfampridine). AMPYRA is indicated
    to improve walking in patients with MS. This was demonstrated by
    an increase in walking speed. Acorda is developing and marketing
    AMPYRA in the U.S.

Under the terms of the agreement, we will commercialize
    fampridine and any aminopyridine products developed in our
    territory and will also have responsibility for regulatory
    activities and future clinical development of fampridine in
    those markets. We may incur additional milestone payments of up
    to $400.0 million based upon the successful achievement of
    regulatory and commercial sales milestones. We will also make
    tiered royalty payments to Acorda on sales outside of the
    U.S. The consideration that we pay for products will
    reflect all amounts due from Acorda to Elan for sales in markets
    outside the U.S., including royalties owed. We can also carry
    out future joint development activities under a cost-sharing
    arrangement.

Elan will continue to manufacture commercial supply of
    fampridine based upon its existing supply agreement with Acorda.
    Under the existing agreements with Elan, Acorda will pay Elan 7%
    of the upfront and milestone payments that Acorda receives from
    us.

F-51

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of  

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2009 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Acorda

$

110.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec Inc.,
    excluding upfront and milestone payments

$

4.7

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of fampridine

$

45.0

Neurimmune   

We have a collaboration agreement with Neurimmune SubOne AG
    (Neurimmune), a subsidiary of Neurimmune Therapeutics AG, for
    the development and commercialization of antibodies for the
    treatment of Alzheimer s disease. Neurimmune will conduct
    research to identify potential therapeutic antibodies and we
    will be responsible for the development, manufacturing and
    commercialization of all products. We may pay Neurimmune up to
    $360.0 million in remaining milestone payments, as well as
    royalties on sales of any resulting commercial products.
    Milestone payments are reflected within our consolidated
    statements of income when achieved. The royalty term for sales
    in each country will be no less than 12 years from the
    first commercial sale of product using such compound in such
    country.

We have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of
    Neurimmune in accordance with the guidance provided by the
     Consolidation  Topic of the Codification because we
    control the activities of the collaboration and are required to
    fund 100% of the research and development costs incurred in
    support of the collaboration agreement. As such, we consolidate
    the results of Neurimmune and recorded an IPR D charge of
    $34.3 million in 2007 upon signing of the collaboration
    agreement. The amount allocated to IPR D relates to the
    development of the
     Beta-Amyloid 
    antibody compound which, as of the effective date of the
    agreement, had not reached technological feasibility and had no
    alternative future use. We allocated the IPR D charge to
    noncontrolling interest, as the IPR D charge represents the
    fair value of the underlying technology retained by the parent.

The assets and liabilities of Neurimmune are not significant as
    it is a research and development organization. Amounts that we
    reimburse Neurimmune for research and development expenses
    incurred in support of the collaboration are reflected in
    research and development expense in our statements of income.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

F-52

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2009 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Neurimumune

$

20.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec Inc. excluding
    upfront and milestone payments

$

15.5

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of the lead compound

$

530.0

Cardiokine   

We collaborate with Cardiokine Biopharma LLC (Cardiokine), a
    subsidiary of Cardiokine Inc., on the joint development of
    lixivaptan, an oral compound for the potential treatment of
    hyponatremia in patients with congestive heart failure. The
    royalty term under our collaboration agreement for sales in each
    country will be no less than 10 years from the first
    commercial sale of a lixivaptan product in such country. If
    successful, we will be responsible for certain development
    activities, manufacturing and global commercialization of
    lixivaptan, and Cardiokine has an option for limited
     co-promotion 
    in the U.S.  Based upon our current development plans, we
    may pay up to $125.0 million in remaining development
    milestone payments as well as royalties on commercial sales
    under the terms of our collaboration agreement.

We have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of
    Cardiokine in accordance with the guidance provided by the
     Consolidation  Topic of the Codification because we
    control the activities of the collaboration and are required to
    fund 90% of the development costs under the collaboration
    agreement. As such, we consolidate the results of Cardiokine and
    recorded an IPR D charge of $30.0 million in 2007 upon
    signing the collaboration agreement. The amount allocated to
    IPR D relates to the development of the lixivaptan compound
    which, as of the effective date of the agreement, had not
    reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future
    use. We allocated the IPR D charge to noncontrolling
    interest, as the IPR D charge represents the fair value of
    the underlying technology retained by the parent. The assets and
    liabilities of Cardiokine are not significant as it is a
    research and development organization.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2009 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Cardiokine

$

70.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec Inc. excluding
    upfront and milestone payments

$

122.8

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of lixivaptan (all indications)

$

430.0

F-53

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Biovitrum   

We have a collaboration agreement with Biovitrum to jointly
    develop and commercialize long-acting recombinant Factor VIII
    and Factor IX for the treatment of hemophilia. Under the
    agreement, development costs are shared equally. We have
    commercial rights to North America and Biovitrum has commercial
    rights to Europe. Each party shares in the other s net
    sales based on a royalty percentage of up to 33.3%. All other
    territories are to be managed by a third party with us and
    Biovitrum sharing equally in all royalties, license fees and
    other revenues arising from arrangements with third party
    licenses and distributors.

Amounts incurred by us in the development of long-acting
    recombinant Factor VIII and Factor IX are reflected as research
    and development expense in our consolidated statements of
    income, reduced by amounts due from Biovitrum. A summary of
    collective activity related to these programs is as follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2009 

Total upfront and milestone payments received from Biovitrum

$

5.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec Inc.,
    excluding upfront and milestone payments

$

54.6

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of Factors XIII and IX

$

135.0

Under the agreement, Biovitrum may pay us an additional
    $18.0 million in milestone payments.

MondoBiotech   

In December 2009, pursuant to our agreement with mondoBIOTECH AG
    and certain of its subsidiaries (Mondobiotech), we notified
    Mondobiotech that we would terminate our interest in continuing
    to fund, develop and commercialize Aviptadil, the
    collaboration s only product, and have retained the right
    to receive a percentage of future milestones and royalties
    received by Mondobiotech from third parties related to the
    Aviptadil program. In accordance with the terms of the
    agreement, we made a final payment of $1.25 million in
    December 2009, bringing total 2009 payments to Mondobiotech
    to $13.3 million.

We had previously determined that we were the primary
    beneficiary of Mondobiotech because we were required to
    fund 100% of the development costs under the terms agreed.
    As such, we consolidated the results of Mondobiotech. Upon
    terminating our development interest, we ceased to consolidate
    the results of Mondobiotech because we no longer were
    responsible for funding development costs. Therefore, our
    consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009
    no longer include the assets and liabilities of Mondobiotech.
    The assets and liabilities of Mondobiotech previously
    consolidated within our financial statements were not
    significant as Mondobiotech is a research and development
    organization. Expenses incurred by the collaboration were
    previously reflected in research and development expense in our
    consolidated statements of income.

F-54

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2009 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Mondobiotech

$

7.5

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec Inc.,
    excluding upfront and milestone payments

$

42.0

UCB   

In June 2009, UCB, S.A., (UCB) and we announced the
    discontinuation of the Phase 2 clinical trial for this
    collaboration s only product candidate due to the absence
    of clinically relevant efficacy. Since the inception of our
    collaboration agreement with UCB, we have incurred a total of
    $101.0 million in research and development expenses for the
    development and commercialization of an oral alpha4 integrin
    antagonist for the treatment of relapsing remitting MS.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2009 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to UCB

$

30.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec Inc.,
    excluding upfront and milestone payments

$

71.0

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of the compound in this indication

$

2.0

Facet
    Biotech   

We have a collaboration agreement with Facet Biotech Corporation
    (Facet) aimed at advancing the development and commercialization
    of daclizumab in MS and volociximab in solid tumors. Daclizumab
    is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to the IL-2
    receptor on activated T cells. Volociximab is an anti-angiogenic
    chimeric antibody directed against alpha5 beta1 integrin. Under
    the agreement, development and commercialization costs and
    profits are shared equally. We may incur up to an additional
    $210.0 million of payments upon achievement of development
    and commercial milestones.

In January 2010, we agreed with our collaborator, Facet, to
    assume the manufacture of declizumab and began the process of
    transferring from Facet the manufacturing technology necessary
    for us to manufacture declizumab.

F-55

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2009 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Facet

$

50.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec Inc.,
    excluding upfront and milestone payments

$

122.5

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of current indications of daclizumab and volociximab

$

475.0

Vernalis   

We have a collaboration agreement with Vernalis plc (Vernalis)
    aimed at advancing the development and commercialization of an
    adenosine A2a receptor antagonist for treatment of
    Parkinson s disease. Under the agreement, we received
    exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize the
    compound. We are responsible for funding all development costs
    and may incur up to an additional $85.0 million of
    milestone payments upon achievement of certain objectives, as
    well as royalties on commercial sales.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2009 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Vernalis

$

13.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec Inc. excluding
    upfront and milestone payments

$

69.7

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by Biogen Idec
    Inc. in development of the compound in this indication

$

225.0

F-56

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

As of December 31,  2008, we held a total of approximately
    7.6 million shares of Vernalis. During 2009, due to a
    reverse stock split, we received one new share for every twenty
    shares previously owned. As a result, as of December 31,
    2009, we held a total of approximately 0.4 million shares
    of Vernalis. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our
    investment in Vernalis had a fair value of approximately
    $0.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively.

Our investment in Vernalis, which is included within investments
    and other assets, is subject to periodic review of impairment.
    In 2008 and 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of
    $0.5 million and $6.3 million, respectively,
    representing an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment in the stock we own. No impairment was recognized
    related to this investment during 2009.

18.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Leases   

We rent laboratory and office space and certain equipment under
    noncancellable operating leases. These lease agreements contain
    various clauses for renewal at our option and, in certain cases,
    escalation clauses typically linked to rates of inflation.
    Rental expense under these leases, which terminate at various
    dates through 2025, amounted to $36.4 million in 2009,
    $36.0 million in 2008, and $33.1 million in 2007.

As of December 31, 2009, minimum rental commitments under
    noncancellable leases for each of the next five years and total
    thereafter were as follows:

(1)  

Includes fifteen-year lease on a 356,000 square foot office
    building in Weston, Massachusetts, which will serve as the
    future location of our general and administrative offices with a
    planned occupancy around mid-year 2010. The initial lease term
    is from 2010 through 2025 under which the total minimum lease
    payments are $258.6 million. 

Other
    Funding Commitments   

As of December 31, 2009, we have funding commitments of up
    to approximately $24.8 million in biotechnology oriented
    venture capital funds.

As of December 31, 2009, we have accrued expenses totaling
    approximately $31.7 million on our consolidated balance
    sheet related to clinical research organizations for
    expenditures incurred in relation to ongoing clinical trials.

Contingent
    Milestone Payments   

Based on our development plans as of December 31, 2009, we
    have committed to make potential future milestone payments to
    third parties of up to approximately $1,500.0 million as
    part of our various collaborations, including licensing and
    development programs. Payments under these agreements generally
    become due and payable only upon achievement of certain
    developmental, regulatory or commercial milestones. Because the
    achievement of these milestones had not occurred as of
    December 31, 2009, such contingencies have not been
    recorded in our financial statements.

Along with several other major pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies, Biogen, Inc. (now Biogen Idec MA, Inc., one of our
    wholly-owned subsidiaries) or, in some cases, Biogen Idec Inc.,
    was named as a defendant in lawsuits filed by the City of New
    York and numerous Counties of the State of New York. All of the
    cases   except for

F-57

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

cases filed by the County of Erie, County of Oswego and County
    of Schenectady (Three County Actions)   are the
    subject of a Consolidated Complaint, first filed on
    September 15, 2005 in the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Massachusetts in Multi-District Litigation
    No. 1456 (MDL proceedings). The complaints allege that the
    defendants (i) fraudulently reported (or caused others to
    report incorrectly) the Average Wholesale Price for certain
    drugs for which Medicaid provides reimbursement (Covered Drugs);
    (ii) marketed and promoted the sale of Covered Drugs to
    providers based on the providers  ability to collect
    inflated payments from the government and Medicaid beneficiaries
    that exceeded payments possible for competing drugs;
    (iii) provided financing incentives to providers to
    over-prescribe Covered Drugs or to prescribe Covered Drugs in
    place of competing drugs; and (iv) overcharged Medicaid for
    illegally inflated Covered Drugs reimbursements. Among other
    things, the complaints allege violations of New York state law
    and advance common law claims for unfair trade practices, fraud,
    and unjust enrichment. In addition, the amended Consolidated
    Complaint alleges that the defendants failed to accurately
    report the  best price  on the Covered Drugs to the
    Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to rebate
    agreements, and excluded from their reporting certain discounts
    and other rebates that would have reduced the  best
    price.  With respect to the MDL proceedings, some of the
    plaintiffs  claims were dismissed, and the parties,
    including Biogen Idec, began a mediation of the outstanding
    claims on July 1, 2008. We have not formed an opinion that
    an unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote  in any of these cases, and do not express an
    opinion at this time as to their likely outcome or as to the
    magnitude or range of any potential loss. We believe that we
    have good and valid defenses to each of these complaints and are
    vigorously defending against them.

In 2006, the Massachusetts Department of Revenue (DOR) issued a
    notice of assessment against Biogen Idec MA, Inc. for
    $38.9 million of corporate excise tax with respect to the
    2002 tax year, which includes associated interest and penalties.
    On December 6, 2006, we filed an abatement application with
    the DOR, seeking abatements for 2001, 2002 and 2003 tax years.
    The abatement application was denied on July 24, 2007. On
    July 25, 2007, we filed a petition with the Massachusetts
    Appellate Tax Board, seeking, among other items, abatements of
    corporate excise tax for 2001, 2002 and 2003 tax years and
    adjustments in certain credits and credit carry forwards for
    2001, 2002 and 2003 tax years. Issues before the Board include
    the computation of Biogen Idec MA s sales factor for 2001,
    2002 and 2003 tax years, computation of Biogen Idec MA s
    research credits for those same years, and the availability of
    deductions for certain expenses and partnership flow-through
    items. We anticipate that the trial will take place in 2010. We
    intend to contest this matter vigorously.

On October 4, 2004, Genentech, Inc. received a subpoena
    from the U.S. Department of Justice requesting documents
    related to the promotion of RITUXAN. We market RITUXAN in the
    United States in collaboration with Genentech. We cooperated in
    the government s investigation. It is our understanding
    that the government has not taken any action against Genentech
    as a result of the investigation. We therefore do not expect to
    report further on this matter.

On October 27, 2008, Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH
    (Sanofi) filed suit against Genentech and Biogen Idec in federal
    court in Texas (E.D. Tex.) (Texas Action) claiming that RITUXAN
    and certain other Genentech products infringe U.S. Patents
    5,849,522 ( 522 patent) and 6,218,140
    ( 140 patent). Sanofi seeks preliminary and permanent
    injunctions, compensatory and exemplary damages, and other
    relief. On October 27, 2008, Genentech and Biogen Idec filed a
    complaint against Sanofi, Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC, and
    Sanofi-Aventis U.S., Inc. in federal court in California (N.D.
    Cal.) (California Action) seeking a declaratory judgment that
    RITUXAN and other Genentech products do not infringe the
     522 patent or the  140 patent, and a
    declaratory judgment that those patents are invalid.
    (Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC and Sanofi-Aventis U.S., Inc. were
    later dismissed voluntarily.) On May 22, 2009, the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit granted
    Genentech s and our petition for a writ of mandamus
    transferring the Texas Action to the federal court in
    California, and denied Sanofi s petition for rehearing on
    August 10, 2009. The Texas Action has been consolidated
    with the California Action and we refer to the two actions
    together as the Consolidated Actions. We have not formed an
    opinion that an unfavorable outcome in the Consolidated Actions
    is either  probable  or  remote,  and do not
    express an opinion at this time as to the likely outcome of the
    matters or as to the magnitude or range of any potential loss.
    We believe that we have good and valid defenses and intend
    vigorously to defend against the allegations against us.

F-58

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

On October 24, 2008, Hoechst GmbH filed with the ICC
    International Court of Arbitration (Paris) a request for
    arbitration against Genentech, relating to a terminated license
    agreement between Hoechst s predecessor and Genentech that
    pertained to the above-referenced patents and related patents
    outside the U.S. The license was entered as of January 1,
    1991 and was terminated by Genentech on October 27, 2008.
    We understand that Hoechst seeks payment of royalties on sales
    of Genentech products, including RITUXAN, damages for breach of
    contract, and other relief. Although we are not a party to the
    arbitration, any damages awarded to Hoescht based on sales of
    RITUXAN may be a cost allocable to our collaboration with
    Genentech. Under the collaboration agreement, we may be
    responsible for a portion of any such damages. We have not
    formed an opinion that an unfavorable outcome in the arbitration
    is either  probable  or  remote,  and do not
    express an opinion at this time as to the likely outcome of the
    matter or as to the magnitude or range of any potential loss.

In addition, we are involved in product liability claims and
    other legal proceedings generally incidental to our normal
    business activities. While the outcome of any of these
    proceedings cannot be accurately predicted, we do not believe
    the ultimate resolution of any of these existing matters would
    have a material adverse effect on our business or financial
    conditions.

20.    

Segment
    Information  

We operate in one business segment, which is the business of
    development, manufacturing and commercialization of novel
    therapeutics for human healthcare and, therefore, our chief
    operating decision-maker manages the operations of our Company
    as a single operating segment. Enterprise-wide disclosures about
    product revenues, other revenues and long-lived assets by
    geographic area and information relating to major customers are
    presented below. Revenues are primarily attributed to individual
    countries based on location of the customer or licensee.

Revenue by product is summarized as follows:

Our geographic information is summarized as follows (in
    millions):

F-59

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Revenues
    from Unconsolidated Joint Business   

Approximately 25%, 28%, and 29% of our total revenues in 2009,
    2008, and 2007, respectively, are derived from our joint
    business arrangement with Genentech (see Note 17,
     Collaborations  to our Consolidated Financial Statements).

Significant
    Customers   

We recorded revenue from two wholesale distributors accounting
    for 17.7% and 12.3% of gross product revenues in 2009, 16.2% and
    13.1% of gross product revenues in 2008 and 19.4% and 15.2% of
    gross product revenues in 2007.

Other   

Included in long-lived assets in Europe as of December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007 is approximately $665.8 million,
    $611.5 million and $480.5 million, respectively,
    related to our operations in Denmark.

As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we did not have
    significant liabilities recorded for guarantees.

We enter into indemnification provisions under our agreements
    with other companies in the ordinary course of business,
    typically with business partners, contractors, clinical sites
    and customers. Under these provisions, we generally indemnify
    and hold harmless the indemnified party for losses suffered or
    incurred by the indemnified party as a result of our activities.
    These indemnification provisions generally survive termination
    of the underlying agreement. The maximum potential amount of
    future payments we could be required to make under these
    indemnification provisions is unlimited. However, to date we
    have not incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle
    claims related to these indemnification provisions. As a result,
    the estimated fair value of these agreements is minimal.
    Accordingly, we have no liabilities recorded for these
    agreements as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

F-60

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

22.    

Quarterly
    Financial Data (Unaudited)  

(a)  

Total costs and expenses and income tax expense for the first
    quarter of 2008 includes $25.0 million of
     in-process 
    research and development expense related to a milestone payment
    made to the former shareholders of Conforma Therapeutics Inc.
    pursuant to the terms of our acquisition of Conforma
    Therapeutics Inc. in 2006. 

(b)  

Changes in tax law in certain state jurisdictions in which we
    operate during the first quarter of 2009 resulted in a
    $30.2 million reduction to our first quarter 2009 income
    tax expense. 

(c)  

Total costs and expenses and income tax expense for the second
    quarter of 2009 includes the $110.0 million upfront payment
    made to Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. pursuant to our June 30,
    2009 collaboration and license agreement to develop and
    commercialize products containing fampridine in markets outside
    the U.S. 

(d)  

During the fourth quarter of 2009, we repurchased
    8.8 million shares of our common stock at a cost of
    approximately $422.4 million under our $1.0 billion
    share repurchase program authorized in October 2009. In
    addition, we also purchased an additional 6.0 million
    shares of our common stock at a cost of approximately
    $271.1 million during the fourth quarter of 2009 under our
    2006 share repurchase program. 

(e)  

Resolution of federal, state and foreign tax audits, including
    the effective settlement of several uncertain tax positions
    during the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in a
    $34.0 million reduction to our fourth quarter 2009 income
    tax expense. 

F-61

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

23.    

New
    Accounting Pronouncements  

From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by
    the FASB or other standard setting bodies that are adopted by
    the Company as of the specified effective date. Unless otherwise
    discussed, we believe that the impact of recently issued
    standards that are not yet effective will not have a material
    impact on our financial position or results of operations upon
    adoption.

Recently
    Issued Accounting Standards   

In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update
    (ASU)
     No. 2009-13, 
     Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements  (ASU
     No. 2009-13). 
    ASU
     No. 2009-13, 
    which amends existing revenue recognition accounting
    pronouncements and provides accounting principles and
    application guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how
    the arrangement should be separated, and the consideration
    allocated. This guidance eliminates the requirement to establish
    the fair value of undelivered products and services and instead
    provides for separate revenue recognition based upon
    management s estimate of the selling price for an
    undelivered item when there is no other means to determine the
    fair value of that undelivered item. Previous accounting
    principles required that the fair value of the undelivered item
    be the price of the item either sold in a separate transaction
    between unrelated third parties or the price charged for each
    item when the item is sold separately by the vendor. This was
    difficult to determine when the product was not individually
    sold because of its unique features. If the fair value of all of
    the elements in the arrangement was not determinable, then
    revenue was deferred until all of the items were delivered or
    fair value was determined. This new approach is effective
    prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or
    materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after
    June 15, 2010, which for Biogen Idec means no later than
    January 1, 2011. Early adoption is permitted; however,
    adoption of this guidance as of a date other than
    January 1, 2011, will require us to apply this guidance
    retrospectively effective as of January 1, 2010 and will
    require disclosure of the effect of this guidance as applied to
    all previously reported interim periods in the fiscal year of
    adoption. While we do not expect the adoption of this standard
    to have a material impact on our financial position and results
    of operations, this standard may impact us in the event we
    complete future transactions or modify existing collaborative
    relationships.

In June 2009, the FASB issued the following two new accounting
    standards, which were integrated into the Codification in
    December 2009:

ASU
     No. 2009-16 
    prescribes the information that a reporting entity must provide
    in its financial reports about a transfer of financial assets;
    the effects of a transfer on its financial position, financial
    performance, and cash flows; and a transferor s continuing
    involvement in transferred financial assets. Specifically, among
    other aspects, this standard amends previously issued accounting
    guidance, modifies the financial-components approach and removes
    the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity when
    accounting for transfers and servicing of financial assets and
    extinguishments of liabilities, and removes the exception from
    applying the general accounting principles for the consolidation
    of variable interest entities that are qualifying
    special-purpose entities. This new accounting standard is
    effective for transfers of financial assets occurring on or
    after January 1, 2010. The adoption of this standard will
    not have an impact on our financial position or results of
    operations.

ASU
     No. 2009-17 
    amends previously issued accounting guidance for the
    consolidation of variable interest entities to require an
    enterprise to determine whether its variable interest or
    interests give it a controlling financial interest in a variable
    interest entity. This amended consolidation guidance for
    variable interest entities also replaces the existing
    quantitative approach for identifying which enterprise should
    consolidate a variable interest entity, which was based on which
    enterprise is exposed to a majority of the risks and rewards,
    with a qualitative approach, based on which enterprise has both
    (1) the power to direct the economically significant
    activities of the entity and (2) the obligation to absorb
    losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to
    the variable interest entity or the right to

F-62

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be
    significant to the variable interest entity. This new standard
    may affect how we account for the consolidation of common
    structures, such as joint ventures, equity method investments,
    collaboration and other agreements and purchase arrangements.
    Under this revised guidance, more entities may meet the
    definition of a variable interest entity, and the determination
    about whether an enterprise should consolidate a variable
    interest entity is required to be evaluated continuously. This
    standard is effective for us for interim and annual periods
    beginning after January 1, 2010. We have completed our
    evaluation of the impact of adopting this standard and
    determined that the adoption will not have an impact on our
    financial position or results of operations. However, changes to
    existing relationships or future transactions may result in us
    consolidating or deconsolidating our partner(s) to
    collaborations and other arrangements. Refer to Note 17,
     Collaborations  to our Consolidated Financial Statements
    for information about our relationships with significant
    variable interest entities.

Recently
    Adopted Accounting Standards   

In September 2009, the FASB issued ASU
     No. 2009-12, 
     Fair Value Measurements and Disclosure  (ASU
     No. 2009-12). 
    This standard provides additional guidance on using the net
    asset value per share, provided by an investee, when estimating
    the fair value of an alternate investment that does not have a
    readily determinable fair value and enhances the disclosures
    concerning these investments. Examples of alternate investments,
    within the scope of this standard, include investments in hedge
    funds and private equity, real estate, and venture capital
    partnerships. This standard is effective for interim and annual
    periods ending after December 15, 2009. As of
    December 31, 2009, our only investments falling within the
    scope of this guidance are our venture capital investments. For
    these investments we use the net asset value to assess fair
    value. Refer to Note 6,  Fair Value Measurements  to
    our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosure
    related to our venture capital investments. The adoption of this
    standard did not have an impact on our financial position or
    results of operations; however, this standard may impact us in
    future periods.

In April 2009, the FASB issued a new accounting standard
    providing guidance for the accounting of assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from
    contingencies. This guidance amends and clarifies previous
    accounting standards to address application issues regarding the
    initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and
    accounting, and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising
    from contingencies in a business combination. Due to the fact
    that this guidance is applicable to acquisitions completed after
    January 1, 2009 and we did not have any business
    combinations during 2009, the adoption of this standard did not
    impact our financial position or results of operations.

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a newly issued
    accounting standard for business combinations. This standard
    requires an acquiring company to measure all assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed, including contingent considerations and all
    contractual contingencies, at fair value as of the acquisition
    date. In addition, an acquiring company is required to
    capitalize IPR D and either amortize it over the life of
    the product, or write it off if the project is abandoned or
    impaired. Due to the fact that this guidance is applicable to
    acquisitions completed after January 1, 2009 and we did not
    have any business combinations during 2009, the adoption of this
    standard did not impact our financial position or results of
    operations. The standard also amended accounting for uncertainty
    in income taxes. Previously, accounting standards generally
    required post-acquisition adjustments related to business
    combination deferred tax asset valuation allowances and
    liabilities for uncertain tax positions to be recorded as an
    increase or decrease to goodwill. This new standard does not
    permit this accounting and, generally, requires any such changes
    to be recorded in current period income tax expense. Thus, all
    changes to valuation allowances and liabilities for uncertain
    tax positions established in acquisition accounting, whether the
    business combination was accounted for under this guidance, will
    be recognized in current period income tax expense.

F-63

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Biogen Idec
    Inc. 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
    the related consolidated statements of income,
    shareholders  equity and cash flows present fairly, in all
    material respects, the financial position of Biogen Idec Inc.
    and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and
    the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company
    maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 based on
    criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
    responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting, included in Management s Annual Report
    on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility
    is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance
    with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
    Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
    statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
    supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

February 9, 2010

F-64

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX  

A-1

Table of Contents   

A-2

Table of Contents   

A-3

Table of Contents   

Exhibit No. 

Description  

10.53*

Letter regarding employment arrangement of Craig E. Schneier
    dated October 8, 2001. Filed as Exhibit 10.53 to our Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.

10.54*

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between Biogen Idec and
    Craig E. Schneier dated October 8, 2008.  Filed as Exhibit 10.66
    to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2008.

10.55*

Employment Agreement between Biogen Idec Management Services
    GmbH and Hans Peter Hasler dated October 15, 2008. Filed as
    Exhibit 10.61 to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.56*

Consulting Agreement between Eidetica Biopharma GmBH and Hans
    Peter Hasler dated April 30, 2009. Filed as
    Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.

10.57*

Director Agreement between Biogen Idec International B.V. and
    Hans Peter Hasler dated April 30, 2009. Filed as
    Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.

10.58*+

Letter regarding employment arrangement of Susan Alexander dated
    December 13, 2005.

21+

Subsidiaries.

23+

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm.

31.1+

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section
    302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2+

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section
    302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1++

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
    Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002.

101++

The following materials from Biogen Idec Inc. s Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009,
    formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i)
    the Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii) the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
    (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity and
    (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged as blocks
    of text.

Reference to  our  filings mean filings made by Biogen
    Idec Inc. and filings made by IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation
    prior to the merger with Biogen, Inc. Unless otherwise
    indicated, exhibits were previously filed with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission under Commission File Number 0-19311 and
    are incorporated herein by reference. 

*  

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

Confidential Treatment has been granted with respect to portions
    of this agreement. 

+  

Filed herewith. 

++  

Furnished herewith. 

A-4

<EX-10.50>
 2
 b77985exv10w50.htm
 EX-10.50 TRANSITION AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF JANUARY 4, 2010

exv10w50 

Exhibit 10.50 

TRANSITION AGREEMENT 

TRANSITION AGREEMENT (this  Agreement ) made and entered into by and between Biogen Idec
Inc. (the  Company ) and James C. Mullen (the  Executive ), dated as of January 4, 2010.

WHEREAS, the Executive has been employed as President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company and has served as a member of the Company s Board of Directors pursuant to a written
agreement originally dated June 20,2003 (as amended, the  Employment Agreement  and

WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company have mutually determined that it is an appropriate
time for the Company to transition to a new President and Chief Executive Officer and therefore
wish to set forth clearly the terms of such transition;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and the mutual promises, terms,
provisions and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the parties hereby agree as follows:

(a) For purposes of this Agreement, the  Transition Date  shall be such date
designated by the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board), by notice to the Executive.

(b) For purposes of this Agreement, the  Separation Date  shall be June 8, 2010 or such
earlier date as the Executive s employment with the Company terminates due to Executive s
death or disability or termination by the Company for any reason. If the Transition Date does
not occur prior to the Separation Date, then references herein to the Transition Date shall be
deemed to be references to the Separation Date, where the context so requires.

2.  
       
      Resignation.  The Executive hereby resigns (a) his position as President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, effective as of the Transition Date and (b) his
employment with the Company, effective as of the Separation Date. The Executive further agrees
that he will resign from the Board upon the formal request of the Board at any time following
the Transition Date. The Executive shall not stand for reelection to the Board. 

3.  
       
      Continuation Period.  The period from the date hereof through the Transition Date
shall be referred to as the  Continuation Period . During the Continuation Period, the
Executive shall continue to serve as the Company s President and Chief Executive Officer and,
until the end of his current Board term, as a member of the Board, and shall have such duties
and responsibilities as provided in Section 2 of the Employment Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, it is understood and agreed that following the public disclosure by the Company of
the existence of this Agreement, the Executive will be allowed (i) to devote 

working time to career-related matters, including communicating with prospective employers
and/or boards regarding potential future opportunities, provided doing so does not materially
interfere with his performance of his duties and responsibilities hereunder and (ii) to join
the board of directors or other governing body of one or more other entities so long as the
Executive s membership thereon does not violate Section 6 of the Employment Agreement. 

4.  
       
      Transition Period.  

(a) The period (if any) from the Transition Date through the Separation Date shall
be referred to as the  Transition Period.  During the Transition Period, the Executive shall
continue as a Company employee as Special Advisor to the Company.

(b) During the Transition Period, the Executive may be assigned such projects and tasks
as are reasonably related to, and consistent with his former position as,
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.

5.  
       
      Compensation and Benefits Through the Separation Date.  

(a) From the date hereof through June 8, 2010, the Company shall continue to pay the
Executive his base salary at the rate in effect immediately prior to the date hereof at the
rate of $1,200,000 per year (the  Base Salary ), payable in accordance with the normal payroll
practices of the Company.

(b) From the date hereof through June 8, 2010, the Executive shall be entitled to
continue to participate in any and all employee benefit plans of the Company in which he was
participating immediately prior to the date hereof and, as of the Separation Date, (i) all
matching credits for contributions with respect to periods through June 8, 2010 will be
credited to the Executive s accounts (notwithstanding the ordinary crediting schedule
applicable to such plans) and (ii) all such benefits (including matching credits) shall be
fully vested. Exhibit A sets forth a list of certain of the Executive s benefits as of
December 28, 2009.

(c) The Executive shall be paid an annual bonus with respect to 2009 in an amount not
less than the product of his 2009 annual bonus target (125% of base salary) and the corporate
multiplier (to be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board based on performance
metrics previously established in 2009 consistent with the determination made for the
Company s other executive officers). Such annual bonus will be paid at the time bonus awards
with respect to 2009 are paid to the Company s other executive officers, but prior to March
15, 2010.

(d) Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), no later than the later of June 8, 2010
and ten business days following the Separation Date, the Executive shall be paid a pro-rata
bonus with respect to 2010 based on his Base Salary and an annual bonus target of 125% of the
Base Salary, pro-rated for the portion of calendar year 2010 that precedes June 8, 2010.

2 

(e) The Company shall pay or reimburse the Executive for all reasonable and necessary
business expenses incurred or paid by the Executive in the performance of his duties and
responsibilities, in accordance with the applicable reimbursement policy of the Company.

(f)    Until the Transition Date, the Executive shall retain his current office
location in the Company s offices and shall maintain the same level of administrative support
and services as are being provided as of the date hereof. Between the Transition Date and the
Separation Date, the Executive shall be provided an office and a level of administrative
support and services comparable to the level being provided as of the date hereof.

6.  
       
      Stock Options.  

(a) Attached hereto as Exhibit B is a schedule of all outstanding stock options
previously granted (and not yet exercised) to the Executive by the Company or a predecessor as
of December 28, 2009 (the  Stock Options ). From the date hereof through the Separation Date,
the Stock Options shall continue to vest in accordance with the governing terms of the
applicable stock plan and/or the option agreement or other award documentation governing such
Stock Options.

(b) Notwithstanding any provision of the Employment Agreement or any stock plan or
agreement evidencing a Stock Option, upon the Separation Date (and immediately prior to the
termination of the Executive s employment) each Stock Option shall, to the extent not
theretofore vested, become fully vested and exercisable.

(c) Following the Separation Date, the Executive shall be entitled to exercise each Stock
Option, in whole or in part. until the earlier of (i) three years following June 8, 2010 and
(ii) the expiration of the maximum term of such Stock Option. The Company shall permit the
Executive to elect to net-exercise all such Stock Options (for both exercise prices and taxes)
throughout the above-described period. The Company shall also take such actions as are
necessary to permit the Executive unrestricted resale of shares acquired pursuant to such
Stock Options and the Stock Awards described in Section 7 hereof (including maintaining the
effectiveness of a Form S-8 or similar form and a resale prospectus with respect to such
equity awards).

7.  
       
      Restricted Stock.  Attached hereto as Exhibit C is a schedule of all
outstanding and unvested restricted stock unit awards previously granted to the Executive by
the Company or a predecessor as of December 28, 2009 (the  Stock Awards ), provided,
however, that the final number of shares available pursuant to the Performance Based
Restricted Stock Unit Award identified in Exhibit C ( PBRSUs ) shall be determined (and
increased or decreased, as the case may be) by the attainment of the applicable performance
goals. From the date hereof through the Separation Date, the Stock Awards shall continue to
vest in accordance with the governing terms of the applicable stock plan or award
documentation governing such Stock Awards. Notwithstanding any provision of the 

3 

Employment Agreement or any stock plan or agreement evidencing a Stock Award, as of the
Separation Date, each Stock Award (including  Earned PBRSUs  as determined in accordance
with the terms of the PBRSU grant) shall, to the extent not theretofore vested, become fully
vested and the Company shall deliver to the Executive shares in respect of each such award. 

8.  
       
      Final Salary and Paid Time Off.  On the first regular Company payday immediately
following the Separation Date, the Executive shall receive payment with respect to any accrued
paid time off rights, including but not limited to, pay for the vacation the Executive had
earned and not used as of the Separation Date determined in accordance with Company policy and
as reflected on the books of the Company. 

9.  
       
      Severance Benefits.  In the event that prior to June 8, 2010, the Company has
publicly announced a transaction which would constitute a Change in Control (as defined in the
Employment Agreement), then the Company shall pay to the Executive the cash severance payment
described in Section 5(a) of the Employment Agreement only upon the consummation of such
Change in Control (and otherwise in accordance with the provisions of the Employment
Agreement). No payment will be due to the Executive if such transaction is not consummated. 

10.  
       
      Non-Competition.  The Executive affirms that those provisions of Section 6 of the
Employment Agreement shall continue to apply in accordance with their terms for the one year
period following the Separation Date. 

11.  
       
      Mutual Release of Claims.  

(a) In consideration of the Company s promises in this Agreement, Executive hereby
knowingly and voluntarily releases and forever discharges the Company and each of its
parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, together with all of their respective current and
former principals, officers, directors, agents, representatives and employees, and each of
their successors and assigns (collectively, the  Company Releasees ), from any and all
debts, demands, actions, causes of actions, accounts, covenants, contracts, agreements,
claims, damages, omissions, promises, and any and all claims and liabilities whatsoever, of
every name and nature, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, both in law and equity
( Claims ), which Executive ever had, now has, or may hereafter claim to have against the
Company Releasees by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising from the
beginning of time to the time Executive signs this Agreement (the  General Release ). This
General Release of Claims shall, except as set forth below, apply to any Claim of any type,
including, without limitation and by way of example only, any and all Claims of any type
that Executive may have arising under the common law, under Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967,
the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1967, the
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Massachusetts Fair Practices Act, Mass. Gen. L.
ch. 151B and Mass. Gen. L. ch. 149,    24A-24J, the
Massachusetts Civil Rights Act, and the Massachusetts Equal Rights Law,

4 

each as amended, and any other federal, state or local statutes, regulations,
ordinances or common law, or under any policy, agreement, contract, understanding or
promise, written or oral, formal or informal, between any of the Company Releasees and
Executive, including, without limitation, the Employment Agreement, and shall further apply,
without limitation, to any and all Claims in connection with, related to or arising out of
Executive s employment, or the termination of Executive s employment, with the Company;
provided, however, that nothing contained in this General Release shall (i) release any
claim that cannot be waived under applicable law, (ii) release Executive s rights to any
benefits under any employee benefit plan of the Company or an affiliate, with respect to
those Stock Options or Stock Awards specifically listed in this Transition Agreement, or
with respect to health care continuation under COBRA, (iii) release any entitlement to or
with respect to indemnification which the Executive may have pursuant to Section 7 of the
Employment Agreement, as provided in Section 13 below, or pursuant to the Company s bylaws,
any policy of insurance maintained by the Company or otherwise under law, or (iv) be
construed to release the Executive s rights under this Agreement or be construed to prohibit
or restrict in any manner the Executive from bringing appropriate proceedings to enforce
this Agreement. Executive acknowledges that his execution of the Transition Agreement
terminates any claims he previously held to any and all equity, compensation, and employee
benefits, other than those specifically identified in this Transition Agreement.

(b) In consideration of the Executive s promises in this Agreement, the
Company, on behalf of itself and each of its parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, and each
of their successors and assigns, hereby knowingly and voluntarily releases and forever
discharges Executive from any and all Claims, which it ever had, now has, or may hereafter
claim to have against Executive by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising
from the beginning of time to the time the Company signs this Agreement (the  Company
Release ), including, without limitation, all Claims of any type that the Company have
against Executive under any federal, state or local statutes, regulations, ordinances or
common law, or under any policy, agreement, contract, understanding or promise, written or
oral, formal or informal, between Executive and any Company Releasee, including, without
limitation, the Employment Agreement, and any and all Claims in connection with,
related to or arising out of Executive s employment, or the termination of Executive s
employment, with the Company;  provided, however,  that nothing contained in this Company
Release shall release Executive from the Non- Competition provisions of Section 6 of the
Employment Agreement, in accordance with Section 10 above, or from Executive s obligations
under the Employee s Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement, effective June 1,
1989, entered into by the Executive and Biogen Inc. (the  Proprietary Information and
Inventions Agreement ). 

(c) Additionally, the Executive and the Company, on behalf of itself and each of its
parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, and each of their successors and assigns, hereby agree
to execute the Mutual Release and Waiver attached as Exhibit D on the Separation Date. If
the Executive timely delivers the Mutual Release and Waiver, the Executive will be entitled
to the benefits described in Section 5(d) of this Agreement. Absent satisfaction of the
provisions of the foregoing sentence, the Executive is not entitled to the benefits
described in Section 5(d) of this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, the Executive s 

5 

entitlement to the benefits described in Section 5(d) of this Agreement is conditioned
solely upon the Executive s execution of the Mutual Release and Waiver attached as Exhibit D
and is not conditioned on the Company s execution of such release and waiver. The Company
and the Executive further agree that the Mutual Release and Waiver attached as Exhibit
D shall only be effective with respect to either party if it is executed by both
parties. 

12.  
       
      Withholding.  All payments made by the Company to the Executive under this Agreement
shall be subject to applicable tax withholding. 

13.  
       
      Indemnification.  The Company agrees to provide the Executive with the
indemnification, insurance, expense advancement and other rights set forth in Section 7 of the
Employment Agreement, except that to the extent permitted by law, the Company s expense
advancement obligations thereunder shall be unconditional. 

14.  
       
      Legal Fees.  The Company shall pay, or reimburse the Executive for the legal fees,
charges and disbursements of the Executive s counsel, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher  
Flom LLP ( Skadden ) incurred in connection with the negotiation and
execution of this Agreement. Such reimbursement or payment shall be made by the Company within
ten business days of the Executive s or Skadden s submission to the Company of an invoice or
invoices in Skadden s customary form, which submission shall be made no later than thirty (30)
days after the Effective Date. In the event that the Executive recognizes income
with respect to such legal fee reimbursement, the Company shall pay to the Executive an
additional amount such that the Executive is in the same after-tax position he would have been
in had no income been recognized with respect to such reimbursement. Such tax reimbursement
(and any related tax gross-up) shall be paid not later than 60 days following the date the
applicable tax is paid by the Executive. The Company further agrees to pay or reimburse the
Executive, in the manner set forth in this Section 14, for reasonable legal fees incurred by
the Executive following the Effective Date in connection with the matters covered by this
Agreement. 

15.  
       
      Consultation with Attorney; Voluntary Agreement.  Executive understands and agrees
that Executive has the right and has been given the opportunity to review this Agreement and,
specifically, the General Release in Section 11 above, with an attorney. Executive also
understands and agrees that Executive is under no obligation to consent to the General Release
set forth in Section 11 above. Executive represents that he has read this Agreement, including
the General Release set forth in Section 11 and understand its terms and that Executive enters
into this Agreement freely, voluntarily, and without coercion. 

16.  
       
      Effective Date; Revocation.  Executive acknowledges and represents that he has been
given at least twenty-one (21) days during which to review and consider the provisions of this
Agreement and, specifically, the General Release set forth in Section 11 above, although
Executive may sign and return it sooner if Executive so desires. Executive further
acknowledges and represents that Executive has been advised by the Company 

6 

that Executive has the right to revoke this Agreement for a period of seven (7) days after
signing it. Executive acknowledges and agrees that, if Executive wishes to revoke this
Agreement, he must do so in a writing, signed by Executive and received by the
Company no later than 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the seventh (7th) day of the revocation
period. If no such revocation occurs, the General Release and this Agreement shall
become effective on the eighth (8th) day following Executive s execution of this
Agreement (the  Effective Date ). Executive further acknowledges and agrees that, in
the event that Executive revokes this Agreement, it shall have no force or effect. 

(a) Except as modified hereby, the Employment Agreement shall remain in effect in
accordance with its terms; provided, however, that the provisions of Section 5 of the
Employment Agreement shall not apply except as explicitly provided in this Agreement. In the
event the terms of this Agreement conflict with the terms of the Employment Agreement, this
Agreement shall control. For the avoidance of doubt, the terms of this Agreement set forth
the parties  final agreement with respect to the termination of the Executive s employment
with and service to the Company and the obligations of the parties in connection with such
termination.

(b) This Agreement may not be modified or amended, and no breach shall be deemed to be
waived, unless agreed to in writing by the Executive and the authorized designee of the
Board. The captions and headings in this Agreement are for convenience only, and in no way
define or describe the scope or content of any provision of this Agreement.

(c) The Company and the Executive each hereby affirm that it is their mutual view that
the provision of payments and benefits described or referenced herein are exempt from or in
compliance with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and that each party s
tax reporting shall be completed in a manner consistent with such view. The Executive and
the Company hereby further agree that in the event that any payment or benefit made or
provided to the Executive in connection with his service to the Company results in the
imposition of an excise tax pursuant to Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, the
Executive shall be entitled to the payment described in Section 5(f) of the Employment
Agreement, which shall be paid in the manner set forth therein.

(d) The parties agree that the Executive s Proprietary Information and Inventions
Agreement shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms.

(e) The Executive agrees to return to the Company, on the Separation Date or
immediately thereafter, all files, records, documents, reports, computers, and other
property of the Company in his possession or control and he further agrees that he will not
keep, transfer or use any copies or excerpts of the foregoing items.

7 

(f) The Executive agrees that during his employment and from and after the Separation
Date, he will make himself available to the Company to provide reasonable
 cooperation and assistance to the Company with respect to areas and matters in which he was
involved during his employment, including any threatened or actual litigation concerning the
Company, and make himself reasonably available to provide to the Company, if requested,
information and counsel relating to ongoing matters of interest to the Company. The Company
agrees to reimburse the Executive for the actual out-of- pocket expenses incurred by him as
a result of complying with this provision, subject to submission to the Company of
documentation substantiating such expenses as the Company may require. The Executive s
obligations under this Section 17(f) after the Separation Date shall be
conditioned upon the Company s execution of the Mutual Release and Waiver attached as
Exhibit D.

(g)    This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original, and which together shall be deemed to be one and the same
instrument.

(h) The Company agrees that the Executive is not required to seek other employment or
to attempt in any way to reduce any amounts payable to the Executive. Further, no payment or
benefit provided for in this Agreement shall be reduced by any compensation earned by the
Executive as the result of employment by another employer, by retirement
benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by the Executive to the Company or
any affiliate, or otherwise.

(i) The Company and the Executive agree that the text set forth on Exhibit E hereof
shall be used by the Company for the press release announcing this Agreement and the
Transition Period with respect to the Executive.

(j) The Company and the Executive agree that, in the event of a dispute with respect to
the provisions of this Agreement, the dispute resolution provisions of Section 8 of the
Employment Agreement shall apply, except that the Company shall pay the Executive s
reasonable legal fees incurred in connection with his enforcement of his rights hereunder.

(k)    In the event that any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement
shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and
enforceability of the remainder of the Agreement shall not in any way be affected or
impaired thereby.

(l) This Agreement shall he governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with
the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without reference to its choice of law rules.
The parties hereby consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal
courts of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for any actions, suits or proceedings arising
out of or relating to this Agreement.

18.  
       
      Notices.  Any and all notices, requests, demands and other communications provided
for by this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be effective when delivered in person,
consigned to a reputable national or international courier service or deposited in the 

8 

United States mail, postage prepaid, registered or certified, and addressed
to the Executive at his last known address on the books of the Company or,
in the case of the Company, at the Company s principal place of business,
attention of the General Counsel of the Company, or to such other address
as either party may specify by notice to the other actually received. 

ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO: 

ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO:  

James C. Mullen 

Biogen Idec Inc.  

/s/ James C. Mullen

1/4/10  

/s/ William D. Young

1/4/10  

Date 

Date  

9 

EXHIBIT A  
As of December 28, 2009

The contents of this exhibit are for informational purposes only and shall not be construed to
limit or reduce the entitlements of the Executive to benefits under the terms of any benefit plan
or program of the Company, as modified by this Agreement.

401(k) Savings Plan 
Supplemental Savings Plan 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
Disability Benefits 
Life and Accidental Death   Dismemberment Insurance 
Business Travel Accident Insurance 
Medical Benefits, Dental Benefits, and Wellness   Fitness Programs 
Career Policy (including, but not limited to, tuition reimbursements and service awards) 
Tax and Financial Planning Reimbursement 
Vacation Policy

EXHIBIT B  
As of December 28, 2009

The contents of this exhibit are for informational purposes only and shall not be construed to
limit or reduce the entitlements of the Executive to benefits under the terms of any benefit plan
or program of the Company, as modified by this Agreement.

EXHIBIT C  
As of December 28, 2009

The contents of this exhibit are for informational purposes only and shall not be construed to
limit or reduce the entitlements of the Executive to benefits under the terms of any benefit plan
or program of the Company, as modified by this Agreement.

Restricted Stock Unit Grant History 

Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award History 

2  
       
     The final number of PBRSUs which have been
granted and will vest may change depending on and subject to both
(i) the extent to which the established performance goals have been
achieved and (ii) the corporate multiplier determined by the Board. 

EXHIBIT D 

MUTUAL RELEASE AND WAIVER 

MUTUAL RELEASE AND WAIVER AGREEMENT (this  Release Agreement ), dated as of  DATE , between
Biogen Idec Inc. (the  Company ) and James C. Mullen (the  Executive ), dated as of  DATE .

WHEREAS, the Company and Executive are parties to a Transition Agreement dated  DATE 
(the  Transition Agreement  and

WHEREAS, Executive s service to the Company pursuant to the Transition Agreement terminated
as of  DATE 

WHEREAS, the parties have agreed in the Transition Agreement to execute this Release
Agreement and have conditioned the receipt of certain benefits under the Transition Agreement
upon the Executive s execution of this Release Agreement on the Separation Date (as defined in
the Transition Agreement);

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and of the releases,
representations, and obligations contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1.  Mutual Release of Claims. 

In consideration of the Company s promises in this Release Agreement, Executive hereby
knowingly and voluntarily releases and forever discharges the Company and each of its
parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, together with all of their respective current and
former principals, officers, directors, agents, representatives and employees, and each of
their successors and assigns (collectively, the  Company Releasees ), from any and all debts,
demands, actions, causes of actions, accounts, covenants, contracts, agreements, claims,
damages, omissions, promises, and any and all claims and liabilities whatsoever, of every
name and nature, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, both in law and equity
( Claims ), which Executive ever had, now has, or may hereafter claim to have against the
Releasees by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising from the beginning of
time to the time Executive signs this Release Agreement (the  General Release ). This General
Release of Claims shall, except as set forth below, apply to any Claim of any type,
including, without limitation and by way of example only, any and all Claims of any type that
Executive may have arising under the common law, under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1967, the Family
and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Massachusetts Fair Practices Act, Mass. Gen. L.
ch. 151B and Mass. Gen. L. ch. 149,    24A-24J, the Massachusetts Civil Rights Act, and the
Massachusetts Equal Rights Law, each as amended, and any other federal, state or local
statutes, regulations, ordinances or common law, or under any policy, agreement, contract,
understanding or promise, written or oral, formal or informal, between any of the Releases
and Executive, and shall further apply, without limitation, to any and all Claims in
connection with, related to or arising out of Executive s employment or transition period, or
the termination of Executive s employment or transition period, with the Company;
 provided ,  however , that nothing contained in this General Release shall (i)
release any claim that cannot be

D-1 

waived under applicable law. (ii) release Executive s rights to any benefits under any
employee benefit plan of the Company or an affiliate, with respect to those Stock Options or
Stock Awards specifically listed in the Transition Agreement, or with respect to health care
continuation under COBRA, (iii) release any entitlement to indemnification which Executive
may have pursuant to Section 7 of the Employment Agreement between Executive and the Company
originally dated June 20, 2003 (as amended, the  Employment Agreement ), as provided in
Section 13 of the Transition Agreement, or pursuant to the Company s bylaws, any policy of
insurance maintained by the Company or otherwise in accordance with law, or (iv) be construed
to release the Executive s rights under this Release Agreement or the Transition Agreement or
to prohibit or restrict in any manner the Executive from bringing appropriate proceedings to
enforce his rights under the Transition Agreement or this Release Agreement. Executive
acknowledges that his execution of the Transition Agreement and this Release Agreement
terminates any claims he previously held to any and all equity, compensation, and employee
benefits, other than those specifically identified in the Transition Agreement.

In consideration of the Executive s promises in this Release Agreement, the
Company, on behalf of itself and each of its parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, and each of
their successors and assigns, hereby knowingly and voluntarily releases and forever discharges
Executive from any and all Claims, which it ever had, now has, or may hereafter claim to have
against Executive by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever arising from the beginning
of time to the time the Company signs this Release Agreement (the  Company Release ), including,
without limitation, all Claims of any type that the Company have against Executive under any
federal, state or local statutes, regulations, ordinances or common law, or under any policy,
agreement, contract, understanding or promise, written or oral, formal or informal, between
Executive and any Company Releasee, including, without limitation, the Employment Agreement, and
any and all Claims in connection with, related to or arising out of Executive s employment or
service to, or the termination of Executive s employment or service with, the Company;
 provided ,  however , that nothing contained in this Company Release shall (i)
release Executive from the Non-Competition provisions of Section 6 of the Employment
Agreement, in accordance with Section 10 of the Transition Agreement, or from Executive s
obligations under the Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement, or (ii) be construed to
prohibit the Company from bringing appropriate proceedings to enforce this Release Agreement.

2.  Consultation with Attorney; Voluntary Agreement.  Executive understands and agrees
that Executive has the right and has been given the opportunity to review this Release Agreement
with an attorney. Executive also understands and agrees that Executive is under no obligation to
consent to this Release Agreement. Executive represents that he has read this Release Agreement and
understand its terms and that Executive enter into this Agreement freely, voluntarily, and without
coercion.

3.  Effective Date.  Executive acknowledges and represents that he has been
given reasonable time to review and consider the provisions of this Release Agreement. This
Release Agreement shall become effective upon Executive s execution below (subject to the
provisions of Section 8 below), which shall occur on the Separation Date (as defined in the
Transition Agreement).

4.  Severability.  In the event that any one or more of the provisions of
this Release Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity,
legality and enforceability of the remainder of the Release Agreement shall not in any way be
affected or impaired thereby.

D-2 

5.  Governing Law.  This Release Agreement shall be governed by and construed and
enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without reference to its
choice of law rules. The parties hereby consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the
state and federal courts of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for any actions, suits or proceedings
arising out of or relating to this Release Agreement.

6.  Headings.  All descriptive headings in this Release Agreement are inserted for
convenience only and shall be disregarded in construing or applying any provision of this Release
Agreement.

7.  Counterparts.  This Release Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

8.  Effectiveness
of Release Agreement.  It is expressly agreed by the Company and the
Executive that the provisions of this Release Agreement shall be null and void and of no force or
effect unless the Release Agreement is executed by both the executive and the Company.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and Executive have executed this Release
Agreement, on the date and year set forth below.

ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO: 

ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO:  

James C. Mullen 

Biogen Idec Inc.  

Date 

Date  

To be signed on the Separation Date  

To be signed on the Separation Date   

D-3 

</EX-10.50>

<EX-10.52>
 3
 b77985exv10w52.htm
 EX-10.52 LETTER REGARDING EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENT OF ROBERT HAMM DATED APRIL 1, 2009

exv10w52 

Exhibit 10.52 

(Biogen Idec Logo)

April 1, 2009

Dear Bob:

I am pleased to confirm your promotion to Chief Operating Officer. This position will report to
Jim Mullen, President and CEO, and will be based at our Cambridge, Massachusetts facility.

The specific terms of your promotion are as follows:

Promotion Date:  The effective date of your promotion is March 30, 2009.

Base Salary:  Your biweekly salary will be $27,692.31, which is equivalent to an annual salary of
$720,000.06.

Annual Bonus Plan:  Your target bonus opportunity under the Biogen Idec Annual Bonus Plan will be
75% of your annualized base salary. Please refer to the Plan documents for further details about
eligibility and payment provisions.

Long-Term Incentive:  You will be granted Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) in connection with your
promotion. The RSU grant date will be the first trading day of the month following your effective
date of promotion. The approximate grant date value of your RSU grant will be $190,000. The number
of RSUs to be granted to you will be calculated by dividing $190,000 by the closing price of Biogen
Idec stock on the grant date, with the resulting number of shares rounded to the nearest five
shares. Assuming your continued employment, these RSUs will vest and convert into shares of Biogen
Idec common stock at the rate of one-third per year over three years, beginning on the first
anniversary of your grant date.

You will also be granted an option to purchase shares of the common stock of Biogen Idec at an
exercise price equal to the closing price of Biogen Idec stock on the grant date. The stock option
grant date will be the first trading day of the month following your effective date of promotion.
The approximate grant date value of your stock options will be $190,000. The number of stock
options to be granted to you will be calculated by dividing $190,000 by the result of multiplying
the closing price of Biogen Idec stock on the grant date by our Black-Scholes ratio of 37.6% with
the resulting number of shares rounded to the nearest five shares. The option will have a ten-year
term and, assuming your continued employment, will vest equally at the rate of one-fourth per year
over a four-year period, beginning on the first anniversary of your grant date.

You will also be granted Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units ( Granted PBRSUs ). The PBRSU
grant date will be the first trading day of the month following your effective date of promotion.
The approximate grant date value of your Granted PBRSUs will be $190,000. The number of Granted
PBRSUs will be calculated by dividing $190,000 by the closing price of Biogen Idec stock on the
grant date, with the resulting number of shares rounded to the nearest five shares. These Granted
PBRSUs will be fixed in number (i.e., become  Eligible PBRSUs ) based on the Company Multiplier for
2009 PBRSUs, as determined by the Compensation and Management Development Committee (CMDC) after
the conclusion of the 2009 PBRSU Performance Period. Assuming your continued employment, one-third
of the Eligible PBRSUs will vest and convert into shares of Biogen Idec common stock on the later
of the first anniversary of your grant date or the date on which the Company s LTI Performance
Multiplier for 2009 is approved by the CMDC; the second and final one-thirds of the Eligible PBRSUs
will vest on the second and third anniversaries of your grant date.

The actual terms of your RSU, stock option and PBRSU grants will be communicated to you following
the grant date. Your grants will be awarded under the Biogen Idec Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan.
You are considered a  designated employee,  as defined in the 2008 Omnibus
Equity Plan. Our 2008 Omnibus

Equity Plan and Prospectus are available on iNet. Please read these documents for information about
your LTI grants.

Stock Trading Plan:  As Chief Operating Officer, you are required to enter into a 10b5-1 stock
trading plan for all open market trades in Biogen Idec stock. A 10b5-1 plan allows you to buy or
sell Biogen Idec securities at pre-defined times and/or prices and provides an affirmative defense
against insider trading liability. More information on 10b5-1 trading plans is available on iNet.

Additional Executive Benefits 

Vacation:  You are entitled to 35 vacation days per year, accrued on a per pay period basis.

Supplemental Savings Plan:  You are entitled to participate in Biogen Idec s Supplemental
Savings Plan (SSP). This plan allows you to make pre-tax deferrals of up to 80% of your base
salary and up to 100% of your Annual Bonus payment and certain other eligible incentive
payments. Your contributions to this plan may be limited by your contributions towards other
plans (e.g., 401(k), ESPP, medical, etc.).

Life Insurance:  You will be provided life insurance coverage equal to three times your annual
base salary, subject to meeting the medical standards stated in the group term life insurance
policy for U.S. employees. Biogen Idec pays the premium for this insurance. The IRS requires
employers to impute the value of company-paid life insurance for coverage over $50,000. This
imputed income will be displayed on your pay stub.

Severance:  Under certain circumstances, you will be entitled to receive severance benefits.
Your severance benefits are explained in detail in the attached executive severance document.

IRC 280G Excise Taxes:  In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in Section 280G of the
Internal Revenue Code), compensation paid to you may trigger an excise tax (in addition to
ordinary income taxes). Biogen Idec will reimburse you for any excise taxes you incur under
Section 280G as a result of a Change in Control. This includes gains from the exercise of stock
options and vesting of RSUs and PBRSUs, as well as the reimbursement for such penalties. In
addition, Biogen Idec will reimburse you for income taxes imposed on Biogen Idec s reimbursement
of the excise taxes. This reimbursement will be paid to you as soon as administratively
practicable and, in any event, no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which
payment of any taxes for which Biogen Idec is providing reimbursement is made.

Tax Preparation, Financial and Estate Planning:  You are entitled to reimbursement of up to
$7,500 per calendar year (January 1   December 31) for expenses incurred due to tax preparation,
financial and/or estate planning services, as well as the purchase of tax preparation and/or
financial planning software. Reimbursement must be made no later than the end of the calendar
year following the year in which the expense is incurred, and must be requested within the
deadlines and processes established in the policy.

Air Travel Upgrade:  You are entitled to fly first class on all U.S. transcontinental flights
(e.g., Boston to San Diego). Overseas flights and other domestic flights are subject to the same
policy as all other employees.

Your employment at Biogen Idec continues to be employment at-will. This means that just as you are
free to leave your employment at any time, with or without cause or notice, Biogen ldec also has
the same right to terminate your employment at any time, with or without cause or notice. 

I am confident you will continue to contribute to Biogen Idec s success and wish you the best of
luck in your new position.

Sincerely,

/s/ Craig Eric Schneier

Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D., 
EVP, Human Resources, Public Affairs   Corporate Communications

cc: 
       
     Jim Mullen 

</EX-10.52>

<EX-10.58>
 4
 b77985exv10w58.htm
 EX-10.58 LETTER REGARDING EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENT OF SUSAN ALEXANDER DATED DECEMBER 13, 2005

exv10w58 

Exhibit 10.58 

(Biogen Idec Logo)

December 13, 2005

Dear Susan:

This is an Offer of Employment. I invite you to join our company as Executive Vice
President and General Counsel, at a biweekly wage of $16,153.85 (which is equivalent
to an annual wage of $420,000). This position will report directly to Jim Mullen,
Chief Executive Officer and be located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Consistent with
Biogen Idec s compensation policy, you will be eligible for a merit salary review and
equity grants early in 2007. You will participate in Biogen Idec s lncentive Plan,
targeted at 50% of your eligible base annual salary. Your participation in the
lncentive Plan will commence on January 1, 2006. Additionally. you will participate
(on a prorated basis) in our February 2006 Long Term lncentive grant.

Upon employment, you will be granted an option to purchase up to 40,000 shares of the
common stock of Biogen ldec Inc., at an exercise price per share equal to the closing
sales price as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on the effective date of your
employment. The option will have a ten-year term and vest over a four-year period, at
the rate of 25% per year, starting on the anniversary of your effective date of
employment. The actual terms of the stock option will be communicated to you in a
separate stock option agreement or notice of grant.

Upon employment, you will be granted 10,000 restricted stock units, which will convert
to shares of common stock of Biogen ldec Inc. Management will recommend that one third
of these restricted stock units convert to shares of common stock on each of the
first, second, and third anniversary of your initial date of employment. The actual
terms of the restricted stock units will be communicated to you in a separate notice
of grant.

You will be able to choose from a menu of benefit options through our flexible
benefits program. These benefits include group health care, life, dependent life,
407(k) savings plan, and disability insurance, as well as two flexible spending
accounts for eligible medical or dependent care expenses. You are also entitled to 20
vacation days per year, accrued on a monthly pro-rated basis. Please visit Biogen
Idec s benefits website ( www.mybenerqy.com ) to familiarize yourself with all
Biogen Idec s benefits and HR guidelines.

Equity-based Awards:  You are a  designated employee  for purposes of Biogen Idec s
2005 Omnibus Equity Plan. Please read the Plan for more details about the rights of a
designated employee in the event of a corporate transaction or change in control,
including any applicable limitations.

You are encouraged to enter into a 10b5-1 trading plan, if you plan to buy or sell
Biogen ldec securities or exercise options. These types of plans, when executed
according to applicable provisions, enable you to sell Biogen ldec securities on
pre-specified conditions (e.g., when the price of a share of Biogen ldec common stock
reaches a certain amount) and, therefore, allow you to sell outside quarterly  trading
windows , whether or not you then possess material, nonpublic information. (Please
note that Smith Barney, our stock plan administrator, charges fees for sales of Biogen
ldec securities pursuant to a 10b5-1 trading plan the same as for ordinary sales,
$0.06/share.)

Supplemental Savings Plan:  You are entitled to participate in Biogen Idec s
Supplemental Savings Plan (SSP). This plan allows you to defer receipt, on a pretax
basis, up to 80% of

December 13, 2005 
Susan Alexander 
Page 2

your base salary and up to 100% of your cash bonuses. Your contributions to this plan
may be limited by your contributions towards other plans (e.g., 401k, ESPP, medical,
etc.).

Life Insurance:  Biogen ldec will provide you with life insurance coverage equal to
three times your base salary (maximum coverage up to $1 million), subject to your
successfully meeting the medical standards stated in the executive group term life
insurance policy for US employees. Biogen ldec will pay the premiums for this
insurance. As required by law, income will be imputed for insurance over IRS
limitations annually for this coverage.

Severance:  You will receive a severance benefit of at least 12 months compensation (
as per the attached Executive Severance document; all other conditions of the document
remain applicable). Coverage under Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance
plans will be provided in the event your employment is terminated by Biogen ldec for
reasons other than cause (as defined in the attached severance document). Your
severance benefits are also explained in greater detail in the attached severance
document.

IRC 280g Excise Taxes:  In the event of a change in control (as defined in Section 280g
of the Internal Revenue Code), compensation paid to you may trigger an excise tax, in
addition to ordinary income taxes on that compensation, depending on that amount of
the compensation. Biogen ldec will reimburse you for excise tax penalties incurred by
you pursuant to IRC Section 280g on compensation paid by Biogen ldec as a result of a
change in control, including gains from the exercise of stock options and vesting of
restricted shares, as well as the reimbursement for such penalties.

Tax preparation and/or financial planning:  Biogen ldec will provide you with an
allowance of up to $7,500 (beginning in calendar year 2006, and each year thereafter)
for use in the preparation of your Federal and/or state income taxes, for tax or
financial planning, for estate planning (including preparation of personal wills),
and/or for the purchase of tax preparation software. Invoices received from recognized
professionals will be reimbursed.

Employment with Biogen ldec is contingent on the satisfactory completion of a drug
test. Please see the attached documents for full information about our post-employment
offer drug-testing program. You may also be required to complete a medical history
review with our Occupational Health Department. It will be scheduled after your first
day of employment.

Biogen ldec requires that all new employees be subject to a background check. This
verification includes confirmation of employment history, educational and professional
licensing credentials, a criminal records check, and Social Security number search, as
well as any additional procedures that your job responsibilities at Biogen ldec may
warrant. When you complete your online Application for Employment, you will be
authorizing Biogen ldec to conduct this background check. If you have questions about
the background check, please speak to your Biogen ldec Recruiter for details.
Additionally, Biogen ldec requires all new employees to sign a Proprietary Information
and Inventions Agreement on the first day of employment.

In order to protect the Company s substantial investment of time and money in the
creation and maintaining of its Confidential lnformation and good-will with its
customers, vendors and other business partners, as a condition of employment you will
be required to sign the Company s Employee Proprietary lnformation and lnventions and
Dispute Resolution Agreement on your first day of employment. A copy of the agreement
is attached to this letter. Also, as we have explained to you, just as Biogen ldec
regards the protection of our trade secrets, and other confidential information as a
matter of great importance, we also respect that you may have an obligation to your
present and/or prior employers to safeguard the confidential information of those
companies. Biogen ldec respects these obligations, and expects you to honor them as
well. To that end, we expect that you will not take any

December 13, 2005 
Susan Alexander 
Page 3

documents or other confidential information from your employer if and when you
depart.

Further, we want to make perfectly clear you should not bring with you to Biogen Idec, or
use in the performance of your responsibilities for our Company, any proprietary business
or technical information, materials or documents of a former employee.

The Federal Government requires you to provide proper identification verifying your
eligibility to work in the United States. Please bring the appropriate identification,
including your Social Security card (for number verification purposes), with you on your
first day of employment.

Please confirm your acceptance of this Offer of Employment by signing this letter. Please
also sign the enclosed drug screen authorization form and return both signed documents to
Biogen Idec in the enclosed self-addressed, stamped envelope. The other copy of this letter
is for your records.

On behalf of Jim Mullen, we are very excited about the prospect of you joining Biogen Idec.
Your first date of employment will be set by mutual agreement.

Best regards,

/s/ Craig Schneier  

Craig Schneier, PhD.  

Executive Vice President, Human Resources  

cc: 
       
     Jim Mullen 
Rick Fisher 

Biogen ldec is an at-will employer. This means that just as you may resign your employment
at any time for any reason, Biogen ldec may terminate your employment at any time, with or
without cause, in its sole discretion.

I am pleased to accept the offer of employment and acknowledge the contingencies of
employment described above.

ACCEPTED: 

*  
       
      Your effective date of employment is subject to Biogen ldec HR s receipt of negative
results (i.e., no drugs found) from your drug test. If you have not received negative test
result confirmation from Human Resources, please contact your Biogen ldec recruiter to
confirm results prior to starting. Your effective date of employment must be a Monday.
Please notify Human Resources as soon as possible of the Monday you can begin your
employment, and indicate this date on the signed offer letter you return.  

ATTENTION:  Please see the attached Important Information for New Employees

Executive Severance  -  Executive Vice President 

As an Executive Vice President 1 , you are entitled to severance benefits in the event
your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated by Biogen Idec other than for cause. The severance
benefits will be comprised of (i) a lump sum payment and (ii) upon completion of the appropriate
forms, continuation of your participation in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance plans
pursuant to the provisions of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA)
and to the same extent that such insurance is provided to regular U.S. employees of Biogen Idec
(including payment by you of a portion of the insurance premiums). The lump sum payment,
equivalent to at least twelve months of annual base salary and a prorated portion of your target
annual performance bonus, will be calculated as follows:

12   (A x 2.5)  x B = lump sum payment 

where:

A

is number of full years of service with Biogen Idec, but (A x 2.5) not more than 9 

B

is monthly annual compensation (i.e., one-twelfth of sum of annual base salary
plus target annual performance bonus). 

The lump sum payment (less state and federal income and welfare taxes and other mandatory
deductions under applicable laws) will be paid to you promptly following the later of (i) the
termination of your employment with Biogen Idec and (ii) the effective date of a general release in
favor of Biogen Idec (see below). Your participation in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental
insurance plans will continue until the earlier of (x) the date you become eligible to participate
in the medical and dental insurance plans of a third party employer or (y) the date that is  12  
(A x 2.5), but not more than 21  months following the termination of your employment with Biogen
Idec, but in either case only to the extent permitted by the provisions of COBRA. For example:

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after two months, you will receive a lump
sum payment equal to twelve months of your monthly annual compensation and continue to
participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for twelve months, unless you
become eligible to participate in a third party employer s medical and dental plans before
that date.  

If your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated after five years, you will receive a lump
sum payment equal to 21 months of your monthly annual compensation and continue to
participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental plans for 21 months, unless you become
eligible to participate in a third party employer s medical and dental plans before that
date.  

If at any time within two years following a corporate transaction (as such term is defined in
Biogen Idec s 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan) your employment with Biogen Idec is terminated by Biogen
Idec other than for cause, then, regardless of the length of your service with Biogen Idec and in
lieu of the formula set forth above, you will receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 24 months of
your prorated annual base salary and prorated target annual performance bonus. In addition, you
will be entitled to participate in Biogen Idec s group medical and dental insurance plans for up to
24 months following the termination of your employment with Biogen Idec, subject to the conditions
(including earlier termination) set forth above.

For purposes of the severance arrangement, the definition of  for cause  is outlined in the Biogen
Idec 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan.

Payment and provision of the severance benefits described above are conditioned on your execution
of a general release in favor of Biogen Idec, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Biogen
Idec, in respect of any and all claims relating to your employment and the termination of your
employment with Biogen Idec. If you retire or terminate your employment your employment with Biogen
Idec or Biogen Idec terminates your employment for cause or you do not provide the requisite
general release, then you not receive the severance benefits described above.

1. 
       
     These severance benefits are applicable only to U.S. executives of Biogen Idec. 

</EX-10.58>

<EX-21>
 5
 b77985exv21.htm
 EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES

exv21 

Exhibit 21 

BIOGEN IDEC INC 

The following is a list of subsidiaries of Biogen Idec Inc. as of December 31, 2009, omitting some
subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.

State Or Other Jurisdiction Of  

Subsidiary  
       
      Incorporation Or Organization  

Arrowpark Interseas Ltd

Isle of Man 

Biogen Idec (Argentina) SRL

Argentina 

Biogen Idec (Czech Republic) s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) A/S

Denmark 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) Manufacturing ApS

Denmark 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) New Manufacturing ApS

Denmark 

Biogen Idec (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 

Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd.

Ireland 

Biogen Idec (RTP) Realty LLC

Delaware 

Biogen Idec (Singapore) Pte Ltd

Singapore 

Biogen Idec (Slovak Republic) s.r.o.

Slovak Republic 

Biogen Idec Australia PTY Ltd

Australia 

Biogen Idec Austria GmbH

Austria 

Biogen Idec B.V.

The Netherlands 

Biogen Idec Belgium N.V./S.A.

Belgium 

Biogen Idec Biotech India Pvt. Ltd.

India 

Biogen Idec Brazil Produtos Farmaceuticos LTDA

Brazil 

Biogen Idec Canada Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Finland OY

Finland 

Biogen Idec France S.A.S.

France 

Biogen Idec GmbH

Germany 

Biogen Idec Holding APS

Denmark 

Biogen Idec Holding I Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Holding II Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Hungary KFT

Hungary 

Biogen Idec Iberia, S.L.

Spain 

Biogen Idec International B.V.

The Netherlands 

Biogen Idec International GmbH

Switzerland 

Biogen Idec International Holding Limited

Bermuda 

Biogen Idec Japan Ltd.

Japan 

Biogen Idec Ltd.

UK 

Biogen Idec Luxembourg Holding SARL

Luxembourg 

Biogen Idec MA Inc.

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec Management Services GmbH

Switzerland 

Biogen Idec Manufacturing Holding LLC

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Mexico S. DE R.L. DE C.V.

Mexico 

Biogen Idec New Ventures, Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Nobel Research Center, LLC

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Norway AS

Norway 

Biogen Idec NZ Ltd.

New Zealand 

Biogen Idec Portugal Sociedade Farmaceutica, Unipessoal, Lda.

Portugal 

Biogen Idec promet s farmacevtskimi in biotehnoloskimi proizvodi d.o.o

Slovenia 

Biogen Idec Realty Corporation

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec Realty Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec SRO, Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Sweden AB

Sweden 

Biogen Idec Therapeutics Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec U.S. Corporation

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Pacific LLC

Delaware 

Biogen Idec U.S. West Corporation

Delaware 

Biogen-Dompe AG

Switzerland 

Biogen-Dompe SRL

Italy 

State Or Other Jurisdiction Of  

Subsidiary  
       
      Incorporation Or Organization  

Conforma Therapeutics Corporation

Delaware 

Eidetica Biopharma GmbH

Switzerland 

Fundacion Biogen Idec

Spain 

Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Delaware 

The Biogen Idec Foundation Inc.

Massachusetts 

Wolter Interseas Ltd

Isle of Man 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 b77985exv23.htm
 EX-23 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.
333-107098) and Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-97211, 333-106794, 333-47904,
333-65494, 333-110432, 333-110433, 333-128339, 333-152456, 333-128339 and 333-140817) of Biogen
Idec Inc. of our report dated February 9, 2010 relating to the financial statements and
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K . 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts 
February 9, 2010

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 b77985exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, James C. Mullen, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report of Biogen Idec Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in
the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 9, 2010  
     /s/ James C. Mullen

James C. Mullen  

Chief Executive Officer and President  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 b77985exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Paul J. Clancy, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report of Biogen Idec Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in
the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 9, 2010  
     /s/ Paul J. Clancy

Paul J. Clancy  

Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 b77985exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

CERTIFICATION 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section
1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), each of the undersigned officers of Biogen Idec
Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify, to such officer s knowledge,
that:

The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the  Form 10-K ) of the
Company fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, and the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: February 9, 2010  
     /s/ James C. Mullen

James C. Mullen  

Chief Executive Officer and President 
 principal executive officer   

Dated: February 9, 2010  
     /s/ Paul J. Clancy

Paul J. Clancy  

Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer 
 principal financial officer   

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 biib-20091231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 biib-20091231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 biib-20091231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 biib-20091231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 biib-20091231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 biib-20091231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

