<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110204_10-K_edgar_data_875045_0000950123-11-009300_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>25129712</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>779389</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4582041</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1453781</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5888197</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>11880440</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>131</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-009300.hdr.sgml : 20110204
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110204170626
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-009300
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110204
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110204

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BIOGEN IDEC INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000875045
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				330112644
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19311
		FILM NUMBER:		11575597

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		133 BOSTON POST ROAD
		CITY:			WESTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02493
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7814642000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		133 BOSTON POST ROAD
		CITY:			WESTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02493

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BIOGEN IDEC INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20031112

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORP / DE
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19970530

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 A+liYRSpMT3+l19PhEF3tqgozgaYSoHtaHEyQLkyEuoPQ1cJYnPF4jZaVi4xL2oQ
 RGbjsznZH0I0jelc9Y6CNA==

 0000950123-11-009300.txt : 20110204

10-K
 1
 b83162e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file
     number: 0-19311  

Biogen Idec Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 
       (State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

33-0112644 
       (I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

133 Boston Post Road, 
    Weston, Massachusetts 
       (Address of principal
    executive offices)  

02493 
       (Zip
    code)   

(781) 464-2000  

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant
    to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, $0.0005 par value 

The Nasdaq Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such
    files):  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule
     12b-2  of the
    Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer   

Accelerated
    filer   

Non-accelerated filer    

Smaller reporting company   

(Do
    not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock
    held by non-affiliates of the registrant (without admitting that
    any person whose shares are not included in such calculation is
    an affiliate) computed by reference to the price at which the
    common stock was last sold as of the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    was $11,688,813,825.

As of January 31, 2011, the registrant had
    240,911,883 shares of common stock, $0.0005 par value,
    outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the definitive proxy statement for our 2011 Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into
    Part III of this report.

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. 

ANNUAL
    REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K  

For the
    Year Ended December 31, 2010 

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

21

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

31

Item 2. 

Properties 

31

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

32

Item 4. 

[Reserved] 

32

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

33

Item 6. 

Selected Consolidated Financial Data 

35

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

37

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

70

Item 8. 

Consolidated Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data 

71

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

71

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

71

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

72

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

73

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

73

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

73

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

73

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

73

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

74

Signatures 

75

Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-1

Exhibit Index 

A-1

EX-10.5    
     EX-10.6    
     EX-10.43    
     EX-10.55    
     EX-21    
     EX-23    
     EX-31.1    
     EX-31.2    
     EX-32.1    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

NOTE REGARDING
    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

In addition to historical information, this report contains
    forward-looking statements that are based on our current beliefs
    and expectations. These forward-looking statements may be
    accompanied by such words as  anticipate, 
     believe,   estimate,   expect, 
     forecast,   intend,   may, 
     plan,   project,   target, 
     will  and other words and terms of similar meaning.
    Reference is made in particular to forward-looking statements
    regarding:

the anticipated amount, mix and timing of future product sales,
    corporate partner revenue, foreign earnings, royalty revenues or
    obligations, milestone payments, expenses, liabilities, charges,
    contractual obligations, cash expenditures, share-based
    compensation, currency hedges, tax benefits and effective tax
    rate, and amortization of intangible assets;

the growth trends for TYSABRI and our ability to improve the
    benefit-risk profile of TYSABRI;

the assumed remaining life of the core technology relating to
    AVONEX and expected lifetime revenue of AVONEX;

the incidence, timing, outcome and impact of litigation,
    proceedings related to patents and other intellectual property
    rights, tax audits and assessments and other legal proceedings;

the timing and impact of accounting standards;

the design, costs, development and timing of, and therapeutic
    area and indications targeted by, programs in our clinical
    pipeline;

the timing and outcome of regulatory filings and communications
    with regulatory authorities;

the impact and interpretation of healthcare reform and other
    measures designed to reduce healthcare costs;

the impact of the global macroeconomic environment and the
    deterioration of the credit and economic conditions in certain
    countries in Europe;

our ability to finance our operations and business initiatives
    and obtain funding for such activities;

our reliance on third-parties for certain aspects of our
    business;

opportunistic return of cash to shareholders;

the structure, strategy, financial and operational impact, and
    timing of our framework for growth;

the status, use, location and financial impact of our
    manufacturing facilities and other properties; and

the drivers for growing our business, including our plans to
    pursue external business development and research opportunities,
    and the impact of competition.

These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties
    that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
    reflected in such forward-looking statements, including those
    discussed in the   Risk Factors   section of this
    report and elsewhere in this report. You should not place undue
    reliance on these statements. Forward-looking statements speak
    only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake any
    obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.

NOTE REGARDING
    COMPANY AND PRODUCT REFERENCES  

Throughout this report,  Biogen Idec,  the
     Company,   we,   us  and
     our  refer to Biogen Idec Inc. and its consolidated
    subsidiaries. References to  RITUXAN  refer to both
    RITUXAN (the trade name for rituximab in the U.S., Canada and
    Japan) and MabThera (the trade name for rituximab outside the
    U.S., Canada and Japan), and  ANGIOMAX  refers to both
    ANGIOMAX (the trade name for bivalirudin in the U.S., Canada and
    Latin America) and ANGIOX (the trade name for bivalirudin in
    Europe).

NOTE REGARDING
    TRADEMARKS  

AVONEX   ,

    RITUXAN   

    and
    ADENTRI   

    are registered trademarks of Biogen Idec.
    FUMADERM  tm  

    is a common law trademark of Biogen Idec Inc.
    TYSABRI   

    and
    TOUCH   

    are registered trademarks of Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. The
    following are trademarks of the respective companies listed:
    ACTEMRA     

    Chugai Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha;
    AMEVIVE     

    Astellas US LLC;
    AMPYRA   

    and
    FAMPYRA     

    Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.;
    ANGIOMAX   

    and
    ANGIOX     

    The Medicines Company;
    ARZERRA  tm    

    Glaxo Group Limited;
    BETASERON   

    and
    BETAFERON     

    Bayer Schering Pharma AG;
    CAMPATH   

    and
    LEMTRADA     

    Genzyme Corporation;
    CIMZIA     

    UCB Pharma, S.A.;
    COPAXONE     

    Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited;
    ENBREL     

    Immunex Corporation;
    EXTAVIA   

    and
    GILENYA     

    Novartis AG;
    HUMIRA     

    Abbott Biotechnology Ltd.;
    ONCOVIN  tm    

    Eli Lilly and Company;
    ORENCIA     

    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company;
    REBIF     

    Ares Trading S.A.;
    REMICADE     

    Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc.;
    SIMPONI  tm    

    Johnson   Johnson;
    TREANDA     

    Cephalon, Inc.; and
    ZEVALIN     

    RIT Oncology, LLC

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

Overview  

Biogen Idec is a global biotechnology company focused on
    discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products
    for the treatment of neurological disorders and other serious
    diseases. Patients worldwide benefit from our significant
    products used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis,
    non-Hodgkin s lymphoma, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn s
    disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and psoriasis.

Marketed
    Products  

We have four therapeutic products on the market, which are
    summarized in the tables below.

Additional financial information about our product revenues,
    other revenues and geographic areas in which we operate is set
    forth in our consolidated financial statements, Note 24,
     Segment Information  to our consolidated financial
    statements, and Item 6.  Selected Consolidated Financial
    Data  included in this report.

Research
    and Development  

We devote significant resources to research and development
    programs and external business development opportunities. We
    have incurred significant expenditures related to conducting
    clinical studies to develop new pharmaceutical products and
    explore the utility of our existing products in treating
    disorders beyond those currently approved in their labels.

In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our research and development costs
    totaled $1,248.6 million, $1,283.1 million, and
    $1,072.1 million, respectively. In addition, we incurred
    charges associated with acquired in process research and
    development as follows: $245.0 million in 2010 of which
    $145.0 million was attributed to noncontrolling interests;
    none in 2009; and $25.0 million in 2008.

CEO
    Appointment  

On July 15, 2010, George A. Scangos, Ph.D. began
    serving as our Chief Executive Officer and member of our Board
    of Directors. Dr. Scangos succeeded James C. Mullen, who
    retired as our President and Chief Executive Officer on
    June 8, 2010.

1

Table of Contents   

Framework
    for Growth  

On November 3, 2010, we announced a number of strategic,
    operational and organizational initiatives designed to provide a
    framework for the future growth of our business, which are
    summarized as follows:

We intend to focus our business on neurology and leverage our
    strengths in biologics research, development and manufacturing
    to pursue select biological therapies where there is a
    significant unmet need and where the drug candidate has the
    potential to be highly differentiated. Accordingly, during the
    fourth quarter of 2010, we began to reallocate resources within
    our research and development organization to maximize our
    investment in our highest-potential programs. As a result, we
    have terminated or are in the process of discontinuing certain
    research and development programs, including substantially all
    of our oncology programs (which we are looking to spin out or
    out-license), our cardiovascular programs and selected neurology
    and immunology programs. In addition, we have substantially
    reduced our small molecule discovery activities in favor of
    outsourcing these efforts.

We are in the process of closing the San Diego, California
    facility and consolidating our Massachusetts facilities.

We eliminated our RITUXAN oncology and rheumatology sales force
    and Genentech, Inc. (Genentech), a wholly-owned member of the
    Roche Group, has assumed sole responsibility for the
    U.S. sales and marketing efforts related to RITUXAN.

We are in the process of completing a 13% reduction in our
    workforce and realigning our overall structure to become a more
    efficient and cost-effective organization.

We expect these initiatives to be substantially completed by the
    end of 2011 and to result in total restructuring charges of
    approximately $110.0 million.

Business
    Development  

In December 2010, we completed our acquisition of 100% of the
    stock of Panima Pharmaceuticals AG (Panima), an affiliate of
    Neurimmune AG. The purchase price is comprised of a
    $32.5 million cash payment, plus contingent consideration
    in the form of development milestones of up to
    $395.0 million in cash. Panima is involved in the discovery
    of antibodies designed to treat neurological disorders. For a
    more detailed description of this transaction, please read
    Note 2,  Acquisitions  to our consolidated financial
    statements included in this report.

In October 2010, we amended our collaboration agreement with
    Genentech with regard to the development of ocrelizumab and
    agreed to terms for the development of GA101. Under the terms of
    the amended agreement, Genentech is responsible for the further
    development and commercialization of ocrelizumab and funding
    future costs. We will receive tiered royalties between 13.5% and
    24% on U.S. sales of ocrelizumab. Commercialization of
    ocrelizumab will not impact our percentage of the co-promotion
    profits for RITUXAN. In addition, we will pay 35% of the
    development and commercialization expenses of GA101 and will
    receive between 35% and 39% of the profits of GA101 based upon
    the achievement of certain sales milestones. Commercialization
    of GA101 will impact our percentage of the co-promotion profits
    for RITUXAN. This amendment did not have an impact on our share
    of the co-promotion operating profits of RITUXAN in 2010. For a
    more detailed description of this collaboration, please read
    Note 19,  Collaborations  to our consolidated
    financial statements included in this report.

In August 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Knopp
    Neurosciences, Inc. (Knopp), for the development, manufacture
    and commercialization of dexpramipexole, an orally administered
    small molecule in clinical development for the treatment of
    amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Under the terms of the
    license agreement we made a $26.4 million upfront payment
    and agreed to pay Knopp up to an additional $265.0 million
    in development and sales-based milestone payments, as well as
    royalties on future commercial sales. For a more detailed
    description of this transaction, please read Note 18,
     Investments in Variable Interest Entities  to our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report.

2

Table of Contents   

Available
    Information  

We were formed as a California corporation in 1985 and became a
    Delaware corporation in 1997. In 2003, we acquired Biogen, Inc.
    and changed our corporate name from IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation to Biogen Idec Inc. Our principal executive offices
    are located at 133 Boston Post Road, Weston, MA 02493 and our
    telephone number is
     (781) 464-2000. 
    Our website address is www.biogenidec.com. We make available
    free of charge through the Investors section of our website our
    Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We
    include our website address in this report only as an inactive
    textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to
    our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated
    into this filing.

Marketed
    Products  

Our marketed products address the following diseases: multiple
    sclerosis (MS); non-Hodgkin s lymphoma (NHL); rheumatoid
    arthritis (RA); Crohn s disease (CD); chronic lymphocytic
    leukemia (CLL); and psoriasis. In addition, we are exploring the
    expansion of our marketed products into other diseases through
    ongoing development efforts. The approved indications for, and
    ongoing development of, our marketed products are summarized in
    the table below.

Development or Marketing 

Product 

Approved Indication 

Development Program 

Collaborators 

AVONEX   (1)  
    (interferon beta-1a)

Relapsing MS

None

TYSABRI   (2)  
    (natalizumab)

Relapsing MS

Elan Pharmaceuticals

CD

Elan Pharmaceuticals

RITUXAN   (3)  
    (rituximab)

NHL

Genentech (Roche Group)

RA

Genentech (Roche Group)

CLL

Genentech (Roche Group)

ANCA-associated vasculitis in registration

Genentech (Roche Group)  
    (Our rights are limited to U.S.)

FUMADERM   (4)  
    (dimethylfurnarate and  
    monoethylfumarate salts)

Severe psoriasis

None

(1)  

AVONEX is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsing
    forms of MS to slow the accumulation of physical disability and
    decrease the frequency of clinical exacerbations. 

(2)  

TYSABRI is indicated for the treatment of (1) relapsing
    forms of MS as a monotherapy to delay the accumulation of
    physical disability and reduce the frequency of clinical
    exacerbations and (2) in the U.S., moderately to severely
    active CD with evidence of inflammation in adult patients who
    have had an inadequate response to or inability to tolerate
    conventional CD therapies and TNF inhibitors. 

(3)  

RITUXAN is indicated for the treatment of (1)(a) relapsed or
    refractory, low-grade or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL
    as a single agent, (b) previously untreated follicular,
    CD20-positive, B-cell NHL in combination with first line
    chemotherapy and, in patients achieving a complete or partial
    response to RITUXAN in combination with chemotherapy, as a
     single-agent 
    maintenance therapy, (c) non-progressing (including stable
    disease), low-grade, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL, as a single
    agent, after first-line CVP chemotherapy, and
    (d) previously untreated diffuse large B-cell,
    CD20-positive NHL in combination with cyclophosphamide,
    doxorubicin, ONCOVIN and prednisone or other anthracycline-based
    chemotherapy regimens, (2) CD20-positive CLL in combination
    with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, and (3) moderately-
    to severely-active RA, in combination with methotrexate, in
    adult patients who have had an inadequate response to one or
    more tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonist therapies. 

(4)  

FUMADERM is only approved in Germany and is indicated for the
    treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe plaque
    psoriasis for whom topical therapy is ineffective. 

3

Table of Contents   

AVONEX   

AVONEX is a leading therapeutic for relapsing forms of MS. MS is
    a progressive neurological disease in which the body loses the
    ability to transmit messages along nerve cells, leading to a
    loss of muscle control, paralysis and, in some cases, death.
    Patients with active relapsing MS experience an uneven pattern
    of disease progression characterized by periods of stability
    that are interrupted by
     flare-ups  of
    the disease after which the patient returns to a new baseline of
    functioning. AVONEX is a recombinant form of the interferon beta
    protein produced in the body in response to viral infection.

TYSABRI   

TYSABRI is a treatment for MS with powerful efficacy. TYSABRI is
    a monoclonal antibody that was initially approved by the
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in November 2004 to
    treat relapsing MS. In February 2005, in consultation with the
    FDA, we and our collaborator Elan Corporation plc (Elan)
    voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial distribution
    of TYSABRI based on reports of cases of progressive multifocal
    leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients treated with TYSABRI in
    clinical studies. PML is an opportunistic viral infection of the
    brain that often leads to death or severe disability. In July
    2006, TYSABRI was reintroduced in the U.S., and introduced in
    the European Union (E.U.), as a monotherapy treatment for
    relapsing MS. TYSABRI is also approved in the U.S. to treat
    CD, which is an inflammatory disease of the intestines.

Because of the risk of PML, TYSABRI has a boxed warning and is
    marketed under risk management or minimization plans approved by
    local regulatory authorities. In the U.S., TYSABRI was
    reintroduced under the TOUCH Prescribing Program, a restricted
    distribution program designed to assess and minimize the risk of
    PML, minimize death and disability due to PML, and promote
    informed risk-benefit decisions regarding TYSABRI use.

Based upon data available to us through the TOUCH prescribing
    program and other third-party sources, we estimate that as of
    December 31, 2010 approximately 56,600 patients were
    on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide. We
    continue to monitor the growth of TYSABRI unit sales, which may
    be adversely impacted by the significant safety warnings in the
    prescribing information. We continue to research and develop
    protocols that may reduce risk and improve outcomes of PML in
    patients. Our efforts have included working to identify patient
    or viral characteristics which contribute to the risk of
    developing PML, including the presence of asymptomatic JC virus
    infection with an assay to detect an immune response against the
    JC virus.

We have initiated the five year renewal process for
    TYSABRI s marketing authorization in the E.U. This
    marketing authorization review by E.U. regulators, in addition
    to ongoing label discussions with U.S. regulators, includes
    assessment of the criteria for confirming PML diagnosis, the
    number of PML cases, the incidence of PML in TYSABRI patients,
    the risk factors for PML, as well as an overall assessment of
    TYSABRI s benefit-risk profile. Our interactions with E.U.
    and U.S. regulators could result in modifications to the
    respective labels or other restrictions for TYSABRI. Upon
    completion of the assessment of the TYSABRI renewal in the E.U.
    the marketing authorization is expected to be valid for either
    an unlimited period or for an additional five year term.

We collaborate with Elan on the development and
    commercialization of TYSABRI. For a more detailed description of
    this collaboration, please read Note 19,  Collaborations
     to our consolidated financial statements included in this
    report.

2010
    Developments  

In December 2010, we and Elan submitted a supplemental Biologics
    License Application (sBLA) to the FDA and a Type II
    Variation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to request
    review and approval to update the respective TYSABRI Prescribing
    Information and Summary of Product Characteristics. We are
    proposing updated product labeling to include anti-JC virus
    antibody status as one potential factor to help stratify the
    risk of PML in the TYSABRI-treated population.

In November 2010, we updated the E.U. TYSABRI label to include
    information about the increased risk of PML in patients who have
    a history of prior treatment with immunosuppressant therapy.

In July 2010, we updated the U.S. TYSABRI label to reflect
    that the risk of PML increases in patients with prior
    immunosuppressant use.

4

Table of Contents   

In May 2010, we updated the U.S. TYSABRI label to reflect
    that Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome (IRIS) may
    occur in patients who developed PML and subsequently
    discontinued TYSABRI.

In May 2010, we updated the E.U. TYSABRI label to reflect that
    the risk of PML increases after two years of therapy, with
    limited experience beyond three years, and there is a risk for
    the occurrence of IRIS in patients with TYSABRI induced PML
    following discontinuation or removal of TYSABRI by plasma
    exchange, a process that clears TYSABRI from patients 
    blood allowing the immune system to fight the infection.

In March 2010, we began enrolling patients in a Phase 3 study,
    known as SURPASS, designed to evaluate switching patients with
    relapsing MS to TYSABRI from COPAXONE or REBIF. Although
    enrollment targets have not been met, we have stopped enrollment
    and will continue the study for currently enrolled patients.

In March 2010, we began enrolling patients in two Phase 4
    studies, known as STRATIFY-1 and STRATIFY-2, designed to
    evaluate the potential utility of a blood test that is designed
    to detect antibodies to the JC virus.

RITUXAN   

RITUXAN is a widely prescribed oncology therapeutic with over
    2.4 million patient exposures across all indications.
    RITUXAN is a monoclonal antibody used to treat NHL, CLL and RA.
    NHL and CLL are cancers that affect lymphocytes, which are a
    type of white blood cell that help to fight infection. RA is a
    chronic disease that occurs when the immune system mistakenly
    attacks the body s joints, resulting in inflammation, pain
    and joint damage.

We collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of RITUXAN. In October 2010, we amended our
    collaboration agreement with Genentech with regard to the
    development of ocrelizumab, a humanized anti-CD20 antibody, and
    agreed to terms for the development of GA101, a next-generation
    anti-CD20 antibody. For a more detailed description of this
    collaboration, please read Note 19,  Collaborations
     to our consolidated financial statements included in this
    report.

2010
    Developments  

In October 2010, we and Genentech filed a supplemental biologics
    license application with the FDA to expand the U.S. RITUXAN
    label for the treatment of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody
    (ANCA) associated vasculitis, a systemic inflammation of the
    blood vessels.

In May 2010, we and Genentech announced that data from a Phase 3
    study, known as PRIMA, showed that continuing RITUXAN for two
    years in patients who responded to initial treatment with
    RITUXAN plus chemotherapy doubled the likelihood of them living
    without their disease worsening compared to those who stopped
    treatment. The RITUXAN label has since been expanded to include
    maintenance treatment for patients with advanced follicular
    lymphoma who responded to initial treatment with RITUXAN plus
    chemotherapy.

In March 2010, we and Genentech were issued a patent by the
    U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) related to a method
    of treating CLL using an anti-CD20 antibody. For information
    about legal proceedings related to this patent, please read
    Note 20,  Litigation  to our consolidated financial
    statements included in this report.

In February 2010, the FDA approved RITUXAN for the treatment of
    CD20-positive CLL in combination with fludarabine and
    cyclophosphamide, expanding the label beyond the treatment of
    NHL and RA.

FUMADERM   

FUMADERM is approved for the treatment of severe psoriasis in
    Germany. Psoriasis is a skin disease in which cells build up on
    the skin surface and form scales and red patches.

5

Table of Contents   

Other
    Sources of Revenue  

Our primary source of other revenue is derived from royalties
    received on sales by our licensees of other products covered
    under patents that we own. Our royalty revenues are dependent
    upon our licensees  sales of licensed products which could
    vary significantly due to competition, manufacturing,
    regulatory, safety or efficacy issues or other factors that are
    outside our control. In addition, the expiration or invalidation
    of any underlying patents could reduce or eliminate the royalty
    revenues derived from such patents. Royalties on sales of
    ANGIOMAX (bivalirudin) by The Medicines Company (TMC) represent
    our most significant source of other revenue. TMC markets
    ANGIOMAX primarily in the U.S. and the E.U. for use as an
    anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary
    intervention. For a description of this royalty arrangement and
    factors that could adversely affect this portion of our
    revenues, please read the subsection entitled   Other
    Revenue   Royalty Revenues   in the
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   section of this
    report.

We have also sold or exclusively licensed to third parties
    rights to certain products previously included within our
    product line. Royalty or supply agreement revenues received
    based upon those products are recorded as corporate partner
    revenue. Amounts recorded as corporate partner revenue also
    include amounts earned upon delivery of product under contract
    manufacturing agreements.

In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our royalty revenues totaled
    $137.4 million, $124.4 million and
    $116.2 million, respectively, and our corporate partner
    revenues totaled $31.7 million, $5.1 million and
    $13.4 million, respectively.

6

Table of Contents   

Research
    and Development Programs  

We intend to continue committing significant resources to
    research and development opportunities, focusing on
    high-potential treatments for select disorders where there is a
    significant unmet need and where the drug candidate has the
    potential to be highly differentiated. The table below
    highlights our research and development programs. Drug
    development involves a high degree of risk and investment, and
    the status, timing and scope of our development programs are
    subject to change. Important factors that could adversely affect
    our drug development efforts are discussed in the   Risk
    Factors   section of this report.

Therapeutic Area 

Product Candidate 

Targeted Indications 

Status 

Neurology

FAMPYRA

MS (walking ability)

In registration (our rights exclude the
    U.S.)          

BG-12

MS (monotherapy)

Phase 3

Daclizumab

MS

Phase 3

PEGylated Interferon Beta 1a

MS

Phase 3

BG-12

MS (combination therapy)

Phase 2

Dexpramipexole

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis

Phase 3 planned

Anti-LINGO

MS

Phase 1

Baminercept

MS

Phase 1b

Neublastin

Neuropathy

Phase 1

BIIB034

Parkinson s Disease

Preclinical

BART

Alzheimer s Disease

Preclinical

Gamma Secretase Modulator

Alzheimer s Disease

Preclinical

Immunology

Anti-TWEAK

Lupus

Phase 2 planned

Baminercept

Ulcerative Colitis

Phase 2a

Anti-TWEAK

RA

Phase 1

CD40L - Fab

Lupus

Phase 1

Hemophilia

Factor VIII Fc

Hemophilia A

Phase 3

Factor IX Fc

Hemophilia B

Phase 3

Oncology

GA101

Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia

Phase 3

Non-Hodgkin s Lymphoma

Phase 3

Additional information about our product candidates in or near
    registrational stage development by therapeutic area is set
    forth below:

Neurology   

FAMPYRA  

FAMPYRA (prolonged-release  fampridine) is an oral compound that
    is being developed as a treatment to improve walking ability in
    people with MS. We have filed for approval of FAMPYRA for this
    indication in the E.U., Canada, Australia and other
    jurisdictions. FAMPYRA was approved in the U.S. in January
    2010 and is marketed by Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. under the
    trade name AMPYRA (dalfampridine) Extended Release Tablets
    10 mg. AMPYRA is indicated to improve walking in patients
    with MS. This was demonstrated by an increase in walking speed.
    We collaborate with Acorda on the development and
    commercialization of FAMPYRA in markets outside the
    U.S. For a more detailed description of this collaboration,
    please read Note 19,  Collaborations  to our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report.

In January 2011, the EMA s Committee for Medicinal Products
    for Human Use (CHMP) issued a negative opinion recommending
    against approval of FAMPYRA to improve walking ability in adult
    patients with MS in the

7

Table of Contents   

E.U. We intend to appeal this opinion and request a
    re-examination of the decision by the CHMP. We also received a
    Notice of Deficiency from Health Canada for our application to
    sell FAMPYRA in Canada.

BG-12  

BG-12 is an oral compound that is being tested in relapsing MS.
    During 2009, we completed patient enrollment in two Phase 3
    studies of BG-12 in relapsing MS, known as DEFINE and CONFIRM,
    one of which includes a glatiramer acetate (COPAXONE) reference
    comparator arm. The two studies were designed to have a two year
    endpoint with each study involving approximately 1,000 to
    1,200 patients. The FDA has granted BG-12 fast track
    status, which may result in an expedited review.

Daclizumab  

Daclizumab is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in
    relapsing MS. A Phase 2b trial of daclizumab in MS, known as
    SELECT, completed enrollment in 2010. The SELECT trial has a one
    year end point and is expected to involve approximately
    600 patients worldwide. In May 2010, we began patient
    enrollment in a Phase 3 study of daclizumab in relapsing MS,
    known as DECIDE, evaluating the efficacy and safety of
    daclizumab compared to interferon beta-1a (AVONEX). The DECIDE
    trial is designed to have a two year endpoint and is expected to
    involve approximately 1,500 patients.

We collaborate with Abbott Biotherapeutics Corporation (Abbott),
    on the development and commercialization of daclizumab. In
    January 2010, we amended our collaboration agreement with Abbott
    whereby we assumed full development and manufacturing
    responsibility for daclizumab. For a more detailed description
    of this collaboration, please read Note 19,
     Collaborations  to our consolidated financial statements
    included in this report.

PEGylated
    interferon beta-1a  

PEGylated interferon beta-1a is designed to prolong the effects
    and reduce the dosing frequency of interferon beta-1a. During
    the first half of 2009, we began patient enrollment in a Phase 3
    trial of PEGylated interferon beta-1a in relapsing MS, known as
    ADVANCE. The study is designed to have a one year endpoint and
    involve approximately 1,200 patients. The FDA has granted
    PEGylated interferon beta-1a fast track status, which may result
    in an expedited review.

Dexpramipexole  

Dexpramipexole is an orally administered small molecule in
    clinical development for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral
    sclerosis (ALS). ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig s disease,
    is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive
    muscle weakness and wasting.

We have agreed with the FDA on a Special Protocol Assessment for
    the design of a registrational study of dexpramipexole and
    expect to begin patient enrollment in the first half of 2011.
    Dexpramipexole has been granted fast track status by the FDA,
    which may result in an expedited review, and has received orphan
    drug designation for the treatment of ALS from both the FDA and
    EMA.

We have entered into a license agreement with Knopp
    Neurosciences, Inc. for the development, manufacture and
    commercialization of dexpramipexole. For a more detailed
    description of this collaboration, please read Note 18,
     Investments in Variable Interest Entities  to our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Hemophilia   

Long-Lasting
    Recombinant Factors VIII and IX.  

We collaborate with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (Biovitrum) on
    the development and commercialization of long-lasting
    recombinant Factor VIII and Factor IX. In February 2010, we
    amended our collaboration agreement with Biovitrum to provide
    that we will assume full development responsibilities and costs
    and perform all manufacturing for the Factor VIII and Factor XI
    programs, among other matters. For a more detailed description
    of this collaboration, please read Note 19,
     Collaborations  to our consolidated financial statements
    included in this report.

8

Table of Contents   

Factor VIII is a proprietary fusion protein that is being tested
    in hemophilia A, a disorder in which blood clotting is impaired.
    In December 2010, we began patient enrollment in a
    registrational trial of Factor VIII in hemophilia A, known as
    A-LONG. This study will involve approximately 150 patients.
    Factor VIII has received orphan drug designation for the
    treatment of hemophilia A from both the FDA and EMA.

Factor IX is a proprietary fusion protein that is being tested
    in hemophilia B, a disorder in which blood clotting is impaired.
    During the first half of 2010, we began patient enrollment in a
    registrational trial of Factor IX in hemophilia B, known as
    B-LONG. This study will involve approximately 100 patients.
    Factor IX has received orphan drug designation for the treatment
    of hemophilia B from both the FDA and EMA.

Oncology   

GA101  

GA101 is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in CLL and
    NHL. During the second half of 2009, we began patient enrollment
    in a Phase 3 trial of GA101 in combination with chlorambucil as
    compared to rituximab plus chlorambucil or chlorambucil alone in
    patients with previously untreated CLL. The study has a
    6 month end point, with a minimum five year
     follow-up 
    period, and is expected to involve approximately
    800 patients worldwide. In April 2010, we began patient
    enrollment in a Phase 3 trial of GA101 combined with
    bendamustine compared with bendamustine alone in patients with
    rituximab-refractory, indolent NHL. The study has a six to
    twelve month end point and is expected to involve approximately
    360 patients.

We collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of GA101. In October 2010, we amended our
    collaboration agreement with Genentech to specify the terms for
    the development of GA101, among other matters. For a more
    detailed description of this collaboration and the recent
    amendment, please read Note 19,  Collaborations  to
    our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Former
    Registrational Programs   

In October 2010, we agreed to terminate our collaboration with
    Cardiokine Biopharma, LLC (Cardiokine ) for the development of
    lixivaptan in hyponatremia effective November 1, 2010.
    Under the terms of the agreement, we have funded our share of
    development costs through the effective date and made a final
    payment of $25.0 million to Cardiokine. The termination was
    consistent with our broader strategic decision to terminate our
    efforts in cardiovascular medicine described above under the
    heading   Overview   Framework for
    Growth.  

In May 2010, we and the Roche Group announced our decision to
    discontinue the ocrelizumab clinical development program for the
    treatment of patients with RA. Following a detailed analysis of
    the efficacy and safety results from the RA program, we
    concluded that the overall benefit to risk profile of
    ocrelizumab was not favorable in RA taking into account
    currently available treatment options. The ocrelizumab RA
    program included several Phase 3 studies.

Patents
    and Other Proprietary Rights  

Patents are important to developing and protecting our
    competitive position. We regularly seek patent protection in the
    U.S. and in selected countries outside the U.S. for
    inventions originating from our research and development
    efforts. In addition, we license rights to various patents and
    patent applications, generally, in return for the payment of
    royalties to the patent owner. U.S. patents, as well as
    most foreign patents, are generally effective for 20 years
    from the date the earliest (priority) application was filed;
    however, U.S. patents that issue on applications filed
    before June 8, 1995 may be effective until
    17 years from the issue date, if that is later than the
    20 year date. In some cases, the patent term may be
    extended to recapture a portion of the term lost during FDA
    regulatory review or because of U.S. Patent and Trademark
    Office (USPTO) delays in prosecuting the application. The
    duration of foreign patents varies similarly, in accordance with
    local law.

We also rely upon unpatented confidential information to remain
    competitive. We protect such information principally through
    confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants,
    outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we
    sponsor and other advisers. In the case of our employees, these
    agreements also

9

Table of Contents   

provide, in compliance with relevant law, that inventions and
    other intellectual property conceived by such employees during
    their employment shall be our exclusive property.

Our trademarks, including RITUXAN and AVONEX, are important to
    us and are generally covered by trademark applications or
    registrations in the USPTO and the patent offices of other
    countries. We also use trademarks licensed from third parties,
    such as the mark TYSABRI which we license from Elan. Trademark
    protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in
    some countries as long as the mark is used and in other
    countries as long as the mark is registered. Trademark
    registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms.

Our patent position and proprietary rights are subject to
    certain risks and uncertainties. For additional information
    about certain risks and uncertainties that may affect our patent
    position and proprietary rights, please read the   Risk
    Factors   section of this report.

Additional information about the patents and other proprietary
    rights covering our marketed products is set forth below.

AVONEX
    and Beta Interferon  

Our U.S. patent No. 7,588,755, granted in September
    2009, claims the use of beta interferon for immunomodulation or
    treating a viral condition, viral disease, cancers or tumors.
    This patent, which expires in September 2026, covers, among
    other things, the treatment of MS with our product AVONEX. This
    issuance of this patent extends the expected remaining life of
    the intangible asset related to our AVONEX core technology. For
    information about legal proceedings related to this patent,
    please read Note 20,  Litigation  to our consolidated
    financial statements included in this report.

We have non-exclusive rights under certain third-party patents
    and patent applications to manufacture, use and sell AVONEX,
    including patents owned by the Japanese Foundation for Cancer
    Research which expire in 2011 and 2013 in the U.S., and a
    European patent owned by Rentschler Biotechnologie GmbH, which
    expires in 2012. Additionally, third parties own pending
    U.S. patent applications related to recombinant
    interferon-beta. These applications, which fall outside of the
    GATT amendments to the U.S. patent statute, are not
    published by the USPTO and, if they mature into granted patents,
    may be entitled to a term of seventeen years from the grant
    date. There is at least one pending interference proceeding in
    the USPTO involving such third party applications, and
    additional interferences could be declared in the future. We are
    unable to predict which, if any, such applications will mature
    into patents with claims relevant to our AVONEX product.

TYSABRI   

We and our collaborator, Elan, have patents and patent
    applications covering TYSABRI in the U.S. and other
    countries. These patents and patent applications cover TYSABRI
    and related manufacturing methods, as well as various methods of
    treatment using the product. In the U.S., the principal patents
    covering the product and use of the product to treat MS
    generally expire between 2015 and 2020. Additional
    U.S. patents and applications covering other indications,
    including treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, and methods
    of manufacturing generally expire between 2012 and 2020. In the
    rest of world, patents on the product and methods of
    manufacturing the product generally expire between 2015 and
    2020, subject to any supplemental protection (i.e., patent term
    extension) certificates that may be obtained. In the rest of
    world, patents and patent applications covering methods of
    treatment using TYSABRI generally expire between 2012 and 2020.

RITUXAN
    and Anti-CD20 Antibodies   

We have several U.S. patents and patent applications, and
    numerous corresponding foreign counterparts, directed to
    anti-CD20 antibody technology, including RITUXAN. The principal
    patents with claims to RITUXAN or its uses expire in the
    U.S. between 2015 and 2018 and in the rest of the world in
    2013, subject to any available patent term extensions. In
    addition, we and our collaborator, Genentech, have filed
    numerous patent applications directed to anti-CD20 antibodies
    and their uses to treat various diseases. These pending patent
    applications have the potential of issuing as patents in the
    U.S. and in the rest of world with claims to anti-CD20
    antibody molecules for

10

Table of Contents   

periods beyond that stated above for RITUXAN. In 2008, a
    European patent of ours claiming the treatment with anti-CD20
    antibodies of certain auto-immune indications, including RA, was
    revoked by the European Patent Office. We are appealing that
    decision.

Genentech, our collaborator on RITUXAN, has secured an exclusive
    license to five U.S. patents and counterpart U.S. and
    foreign patent applications assigned to Xoma Corporation that
    relate to chimeric antibodies against the CD20 antigen. These
    patents expire between 2007 and 2014. Genentech has granted us a
    non-exclusive sublicense to make, have made, use and sell
    RITUXAN under these patents and patent applications. We, along
    with Genentech, share the cost of any royalties due to Xoma in
    our co-promotion territory on sales of RITUXAN.

Sales,
    Marketing and Distribution  

We focus our sales and marketing efforts on specialist
    physicians in private practice or at major medical centers. We
    use customary pharmaceutical company practices to market our
    products and to educate physicians, such as sales
    representatives calling on individual physicians,
    advertisements, professional symposia, direct mail, public
    relations and other methods. We provide customer service and
    other related programs for our products, such as disease and
    product-specific websites, insurance research services and
    order, delivery and fulfillment services. We have also
    established programs in the U.S. which provide qualified
    uninsured or underinsured patients with marketed products at no
    or reduced charge, based on specific eligibility criteria.
    Additional information about our sales, marketing and
    distribution efforts for our marketed products is set forth
    below.

AVONEX   

We continue to focus our marketing and sales activities on
    maximizing the potential of AVONEX in the U.S. and the rest
    of world in the face of increased competition. The principal
    markets for AVONEX are the U.S., Germany, France and Italy. In
    the U.S., Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Japan and most
    of the major countries of the E.U., we market and sell AVONEX
    through our own sales forces and marketing groups and distribute
    AVONEX principally through wholesale distributors of
    pharmaceutical products, mail order specialty distributors or
    shipping service providers. In other countries, we sell AVONEX
    to distribution partners who are then responsible for most
    marketing and distribution activities.

TYSABRI   

The principal markets for TYSABRI are the U.S., Germany, France
    and Italy.

In the U.S., we are principally responsible for marketing
    TYSABRI for MS and use our own sales force and marketing group
    for this. Elan is responsible for TYSABRI distribution in the
    U.S. and uses a third party distributor to ship TYSABRI
    directly to customers.

In the rest of world, we are responsible for TYSABRI marketing
    and distribution and we use a combination of our own sales force
    and marketing group and third party service providers.

FUMADERM   

FUMADERM is marketed only in Germany. We have been marketing and
    distributing FUMADERM directly in Germany since February 2009
    and previously used a third party service provider.

RITUXAN   

The Roche Group and its sublicensees market and sell RITUXAN
    worldwide. In the U.S, we had previously contributed a sales
    force and other resources to the marketing of RITUXAN. In
    connection with our framework for growth initiative, we reached
    an agreement with Genentech to eliminate our RITUXAN oncology
    and rheumatology sales force, with Genentech assuming sole
    responsibility for the U.S. sales and marketing efforts
    related to RITUXAN. Notwithstanding this operational decision,
    we continue to collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of RITUXAN. RITUXAN is generally sold to
    wholesalers, specialty distributors and directly to hospital
    pharmacies.

11

Table of Contents   

Competition  

Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
    is intense and comes from many and varied sources, including
    specialized biotechnology firms and large pharmaceutical
    companies. Many of our competitors are working to develop
    products similar to those we are developing or already market
    and have considerable experience in undertaking clinical trials
    and in obtaining regulatory approval to market pharmaceutical
    products. Certain of these companies have substantially greater
    financial, marketing and research and development resources than
    we do.

We believe that competition and leadership in the industry will
    be based on managerial and technological superiority and
    establishing patent and other proprietary positions through
    research and development. The achievement of a leadership
    position also depends largely upon our ability to identify and
    exploit commercially the products resulting from research and
    the availability of adequate financial resources to fund
    facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing,
    manufacturing and marketing. Another key aspect of remaining
    competitive within the industry is recruiting and retaining
    qualified scientists and technicians. We believe that we have
    been successful in attracting skilled and experienced scientific
    personnel.

Competition among products approved for sale may be based, among
    other things, on patent position, product efficacy, safety,
    convenience, reliability, availability and price. In addition,
    early entry of a new pharmaceutical product into the market may
    have important advantages in gaining product acceptance and
    market share. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can
    develop products, complete the testing and approval process and
    supply commercial quantities of products will have an important
    impact on our competitive position.

We may face increased competitive pressures as a result of the
    emergence of biosimilars. In the United States, most of our
    marketed products, including AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, are
    licensed under the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) as
    biological products. In March 2010, U.S. healthcare reform
    legislation amended the PHSA to authorize the FDA to approve
    biological products, known as biosimilars or follow-on
    biologics, that are shown to be highly similar to previously
    approved biological products based upon potentially abbreviated
    data packages. The approval pathway for biosimilars does,
    however, grant a biologics manufacturer a 12 year period of
    exclusivity from the date of approval of its biological product
    before biosimilar competition can be introduced. Biosimilars
    legislation has also been in place in the E.U. since 2003. In
    November 2010, draft guidelines issued by the EMA for
    approving biosimilars of marketed monoclonal antibody products
    were adopted by the CHMP. These guidelines are now out for
    public consultation. If a biosimilar version of one of our
    products were approved, it could reduce our sales of that
    product.

Additional information about the competition that our marketed
    products face is set forth below.

AVONEX
    AND TYSABRI   

AVONEX and TYSABRI both compete with the following products:

COPAXONE (glatiramer acetate), which is marketed by Teva
    Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. in the U.S. and copromoted
    by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries and Sanofi-Aventis in Europe.
    COPAXONE generated worldwide revenues of approximately
    $2.8 billion in 2009.

REBIF (interferon-beta-1a), which is co-promoted by EMD Serono,
    a subsidiary of Merck Serono, and Pfizer Inc. in the
    U.S. and is marketed by Merck Serono in the E.U. REBIF
    generated worldwide revenues of approximately $2.0 billion
    in 2009.

BETASERON (interferon-beta-1b), which is marketed by Bayer
    HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the U.S. pharmaceuticals
    affiliate of Bayer Schering Pharma AG, in the U.S. and is
    marketed under the name BETAFERON by Bayer Schering Pharma AG in
    the E.U. BETASERON and BETAFERON together generated worldwide
    revenues of approximately $1.6 billion in 2009.

EXTAVIA (interferon-beta-1b), which is marketed by Novartis AG
    in the E.U. and other markets. EXTAVIA was launched in the
    U.S. in September 2009. EXTAVIA generated worldwide revenue
    of approximately $49.0 million in 2009.

12

Table of Contents   

GILENYA (fingolimod), which is marketed by Novartis AG in the
    U.S. GILENYA is the first oral MS drug approved in the U.S., and
    was launched in the U.S. in October 2010. In January 2011,
    GILENYA was recommended for approval in the E.U. by the CHMP,
    and is either approved or under review in other countries.

Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop
    additional treatments for MS that may in the future compete with
    AVONEX and TYSABRI. For example, an oral formulation of
    cladribine (developed by Merck Serono) has recently been
    approved for use in Australia and Russia. LEMTRADA (alemtuzumab)
    (developed by Genzyme Corporation), teriflunomide (developed by
    Sanofi-Aventis) and laquinimod (developed by Teva Pharmaceutical
    Industries) are in late-stage development for the treatment of
    MS. In addition, the commercialization of certain of our own
    pipeline product candidates, such as BG-12, may also negatively
    impact future sales of AVONEX and TYSABRI.

FUMADERM   

FUMADERM competes with several different types of therapies in
    the psoriasis market within Germany, including oral systemics
    such as methotrexate and cyclosporine.

RITUXAN
    IN ONCOLOGY   

RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in
    the oncology market, including:

CAMPATH (alemtuzumab) (marketed by Bayer HealthCare
    Pharmaceuticals), which is indicated for B-cell CLL.

TREANDA (bendamustine HCL) (marketed by Cephalon) and ARZERRA
    (ofatumumab) (marketed by GenMab in collaboration with
    GlaxoSmithKline), which is indicated for refractory CLL patients
    to both alemtuzumab and fludarabine.

We are also aware of other anti-CD20 molecules in development
    that, if successfully developed and registered, may compete with
    RITUXAN in the oncology market.

RITUXAN
    IN RA   

RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in
    the RA market, including:

traditional therapies for RA, including disease-modifying
    anti-rheumatic drugs such as steroids, methotrexate and
    cyclosporine, and pain relievers such as acetaminophen.

TNF inhibitors, such as REMICADE (infliximab) and SIMPONI
    (golimumab) (marketed by Johnson   Johnson), HUMIRA
    (adalimumab) (marketed by Abbott Laboratories), ENBREL
    (etanercept) (marketed by Amgen, Inc. and Pfizer) and CIMZIA
    (certolizumab pegol) (marketed by UCB, S.A.).

ORENCIA (abatacept) (marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company).

ACTEMRA (tocilizumab) (marketed by the Roche Group).

We are also aware of other products in development that, if
    successfully developed and registered, may compete with RITUXAN
    in the RA market.

Regulatory  

Our current and contemplated activities and the products and
    processes that will result from such activities are subject to
    substantial government regulation.

Regulation
    of Pharmaceuticals   

Before new pharmaceutical products may be sold in the
    U.S. and other countries, preclinical studies and clinical
    trials of the products must be conducted and the results
    submitted to appropriate regulatory agencies for approval.
    Clinical trial programs must establish efficacy, determine an
    appropriate dose and regimen, and define the conditions for safe
    use. This is a high-risk process that requires stepwise clinical
    studies in which the candidate product must successfully meet
    predetermined endpoints. In the U.S., the results of the
    preclinical and clinical

13

Table of Contents   

testing of a product are then submitted to the FDA in the form
    of a Biologics License Application (BLA) or a New Drug
    Application (NDA). In response to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may
    grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny
    the application if it determines the application does not
    provide an adequate basis for approval. Similar submissions are
    required by authorities in other jurisdictions who independently
    assess the product and may reach the same or different
    conclusions. Our initial focus for obtaining marketing approval
    outside the U.S. is typically the E.U. There are currently
    three potential tracks for marketing approval in E.U. countries:
    mutual recognition, decentralized procedures, and centralized
    procedures. These review mechanisms may ultimately lead to
    approval in all countries within the E.U., but each method
    grants all participating countries some decision-making
    authority in product approval.

The receipt of regulatory approval often takes a number of
    years, involves the expenditure of substantial resources and
    depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the
    disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments,
    potential safety signals observed in preclinical or clinical
    tests, and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical
    trials. On occasion, regulatory authorities may require larger
    or additional studies, leading to unanticipated delay or
    expense. Even after initial FDA approval or approvals from other
    regulatory agencies have been obtained, further clinical trials
    may be required to provide additional data on safety and
    effectiveness. Additional trials are required to gain approval
    for the use of a product as a treatment for indications other
    than those initially approved. Furthermore, the FDA and other
    regulatory agencies require companies to register clinical
    trials and disclose clinical trial results in public databases.
    Failure to register a trial or disclose study results within the
    required time periods could result in penalties, including civil
    monetary penalties.

In the U.S., the FDA may grant  accelerated approval 
    status to products that treat serious or life-threatening
    illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefits to
    patients over existing treatments. Under this pathway, the FDA
    may approve a product based on surrogate endpoints, or clinical
    endpoints other than survival or irreversible morbidity. When
    approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints
    other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required
    to conduct additional post-approval clinical studies to verify
    and describe clinical benefit. Under the Agency s
    Accelerated Approval regulations, FDA may also provide approval
    with restrictions to assure safe use. Within this section of the
    Accelerated Approval regulations, if FDA concludes that a drug
    that has shown to be effective can be safely used only if
    distribution or use is restricted, they will require such
    post-marketing restrictions as necessary to assure safe use.
    When a drug approved under these conditions requires restricted
    use or distribution to ensure its safe use, the sponsor may be
    required to establish rigorous systems to assure use of the
    product under safe conditions. These systems are usually
    referred to as Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS).
    In addition, for all products approved under accelerated
    approval, sponsors must submit all copies of their promotional
    materials, including advertisements, to the FDA at least thirty
    days prior to initial dissemination. The FDA may withdraw
    approval under accelerated approval after a hearing if, for
    instance, post-marketing studies fail to verify any clinical
    benefit or it becomes clear that restrictions on the
    distribution of the product are inadequate to ensure its safe
    use. TYSABRI was initially approved in MS under the accelerated
    approval pathway and, following such approval and after efficacy
    was confirmed, a stringent restricted distribution program was
    agreed upon. We cannot be certain that the FDA will approve any
    products for their proposed indications whether under
    accelerated approval or another pathway.

In addition, the FDA may grant  fast track  status to
    products that treat serious diseases and fill an unmet medical
    need. Fast track is a process designed to expedite the review of
    such products by providing, among other things, more frequent
    meetings with the FDA to discuss the product s development
    plan, more frequent written correspondence from the FDA about
    trial design, eligibility for accelerated approval, and rolling
    review, which allows submission of individually completed
    sections of a NDA for FDA review before the entire NDA is
    completed. Fast track status does not ensure that a product will
    be developed more quickly or receive FDA approval.

If the FDA or other regulatory agency approves a product or new
    indication, the agency may require us to conduct additional
    post-marketing studies. If we fail to conduct the required
    studies or otherwise fail to comply with the conditions of
    accelerated approval, the agency may withdraw its approval. In
    addition, the FDA and EMA can impose financial penalties for
    failing to comply with certain post-marketing commitments,
    including REMS.

Regulatory authorities track information on side effects and
    adverse events reported during clinical studies and after
    marketing approval. Non-compliance with regulatory
    authorities  safety reporting requirements may result in
    civil or criminal penalties. Side effects or adverse events that
    are reported during clinical trials can delay, impede, or

14

Table of Contents   

prevent marketing approval. Regulatory authorities may conduct
    post-marketing safety surveillance and may require additional
    post-approval studies or clinical trials. These requirements may
    affect our ability to maintain marketing approval of our
    products or require us to make significant expenditures to
    obtain or maintain such approvals. In addition, adverse events
    that are reported after marketing approval can result in changes
    to the product s labeling, additional limitations being
    placed on the product s use and, potentially, withdrawal or
    suspension of the product from the market.

If we seek to make certain types of changes to an approved
    product, such as adding a new indication, making certain
    manufacturing changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of
    certain ingredients or components, regulatory authorities,
    including the FDA and EMA, will need to review and approve such
    changes in advance. Such regulatory reviews can result in denial
    or modification of the planned changes, or requirements to
    conduct additional tests or evaluations that can substantially
    delay or increase the cost of the planned changes.

In addition, the FDA regulates all advertising and promotion
    activities for products under its jurisdiction both before and
    after approval. A company can make only those claims relating to
    safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. However,
    physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that
    are not described in the drug s labeling. Such off-label
    uses are common across medical specialties, and often reflect a
    physician s belief that the off-label use is the best
    treatment for patients. The FDA does not regulate the behavior
    of physicians in their choice of treatments, but the FDA
    regulations do impose stringent restrictions on
    manufacturers  communications regarding off-label uses.
    Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a
    company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA,
    corrective advertising, and the full range of civil and criminal
    penalties available to the FDA. Similar regulations are in place
    in outside the U.S.

Good
    Manufacturing Practices  

The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies regulate and
    inspect equipment, facilities, and processes used in the
    manufacturing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to
    approving a product. If, after receiving clearance from
    regulatory agencies, a company makes a material change in
    manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional
    regulatory review and approval may be required. We also must
    adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices and
    product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA following
    product approval. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies
    also conduct periodic visits to re-inspect equipment,
    facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a
    product. If, as a result of these inspections, it is determined
    that our equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with
    applicable regulations and conditions of product approval,
    regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or administrative
    sanctions or remedies against us, including the suspension of
    our manufacturing operations.

Good
    Clinical Practices  

The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies promulgate
    regulations and standards, commonly referred to as current Good
    Clinical Practices (cGCP), for designing, conducting,
    monitoring, auditing and reporting the results of clinical
    trials to ensure that the data and results are accurate and that
    the rights and welfare of trial participants are adequately
    protected. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies
    enforce cGCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors,
    principal investigators and trial sites, contract research
    organizations (CROs), and institutional review boards. If our
    studies fail to comply with applicable cGCP, the clinical data
    generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and
    relevant regulatory agencies may require us to perform
    additional clinical trials before approving our marketing
    applications. Noncompliance can also result in civil or criminal
    sanctions. We rely on third parties, including CROs, to carry
    out many of our clinical trial-related activities. Failure of
    such third party to comply with cGCP can likewise result in
    rejection of our clinical trial data or other sanctions.

Orphan
    Drug Act  

Under the U.S. Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan
    drug designation to drugs intended to treat a  rare disease
    or condition,  which generally is a disease or condition
    that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. If
    a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently
    receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it
    has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan
    exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other
    applications to market the same drug for the same indication for
    a period of seven years following marketing approval, except in
    certain very limited circumstances, such as if the later product
    is shown to be

15

Table of Contents   

clinically superior to the orphan product. Legislation similar
    to the U.S. Orphan Drug Act has been enacted in other
    countries, including within the E.U.

Regulation Pertaining
    to Sales, Marketing and Product Pricing   

The U.S. and foreign governments regularly consider
    reforming health care coverage and costs. Such reform may
    include changes to the coverage and reimbursement of our
    products which may have a significant impact on our business.

In 2010, significant healthcare reform legislation was enacted
    in the U.S., which has had and will continue to have an impact
    our business by:

expanding the coverage of and increasing the rate of rebates on
    sales of our products, including (1) increasing the
    Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer
    price (AMP) on our branded prescription drugs,
    (2) extending the Medicaid rebate to Managed Care
    Organizations, and (3) expanding the 340B Public Health
    Service (PHS) drug pricing program, which provides outpatient
    drugs at reduced rates, to include additional hospitals,
    clinics, and healthcare centers;

requiring drug manufactures to provide a 50% discount to
    Medicare beneficiaries whose prescription drug costs cause them
    to be subject to the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e. the
     donut hole 

assessing a new fee allocated to all manufacturers and importers
    of branded prescription drugs paid for pursuant to coverage
    provided under specified government programs;

including an abbreviated approval pathway for
    biosimilars; and

changing the calculation of AMP for injectable drugs not
    generally dispensed through retail community pharmacies.

Considerable uncertainty remains surrounding determinations
    necessary to implement the new legislation. For example,
    determinations as to how the Medicare coverage gap will operate
    remain to be clarified. In addition, uncertainty also exists as
    to when and how discounts will be provided to the additional
    hospitals eligible to participate under the 340B program. In
    addition, in November 2010 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
    Services (CMS) amended and then withdrew current regulations
    governing calculation of AMP; however, no replacement
    regulations have been proposed.

Medicaid is a joint federal and state program that is
    administered by the states for low income and disabled
    beneficiaries. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we are
    required to pay a rebate for each unit of product reimbursed by
    the state Medicaid programs. The amount of the rebate for each
    product is set by law as the larger of 23.1% of AMP or the
    difference between AMP and the best price available from us to
    any commercial or non-governmental customer. The rebate amount
    must be adjusted upward where the AMP for a product s first
    full quarter of sales, when adjusted for increases in the CPI-U,
    or Consumer Price Index   Urban, exceeds the AMP for
    the current quarter with the upward adjustment equal to the
    excess amount. The rebate amount is required to be recomputed
    each quarter based on our report of current AMP and best price
    for each of our products to the Centers for Medicare and
    Medicaid Services. The terms of our participation in the program
    impose a requirement for us to report revisions to AMP or best
    price within a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter
    in which the data was originally due. Any such revisions could
    have the impact of increasing or decreasing our rebate liability
    for prior quarters, depending on the direction of the revision.
    In addition, if we were found to have knowingly submitted false
    information to the government, the statute provides for civil
    monetary penalties in an amount not to exceed $100,000 per item
    of false information, in addition to other penalties available
    to the government.

Medicare is a federal program that is administered by the
    federal government that covers individuals age 65 and over
    as well as those with certain disabilities. Medicare Part B
    pays physicians that administer our products under a payment
    methodology using average sales price, or ASP, information.
    Manufacturers, including us, are required to provide ASP
    information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on
    a quarterly basis. The manufacturer-submitted information is
    used to compute Medicare payment rates, which are set at ASP
    plus 6 percent and updated quarterly. There is a mechanism
    for comparison of such payment rates to widely available market
    prices, which could cause further decreases in Medicare payment
    rates, although this mechanism has yet to be utilized. Effective
    January 1, 2006, Medicare began to use the same ASP plus
    6 percent payment methodology to determine Medicare rates
    paid for products furnished by hospital outpatient departments.
    As of January 1, 2009, the

16

Table of Contents   

reimbursement rate in the hospital outpatient setting was ASP
    plus 4 percent. The reimbursement rate in the hospital
    outpatient setting  was increased to ASP plus 5 percent
    effective January 1, 2011. If a manufacturer is found to
    have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the
    statute provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000
    for each misrepresentation and for each day in which the
    misrepresentation was applied.

The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
    of 2003 established the Medicare Part D program to provide
    voluntary prescription drug benefit to enrolled Medicare
    patients. This is a voluntary benefit that is being implemented
    through private plans under contractual arrangements with the
    federal government. Like pharmaceutical coverage through private
    health insurance, Part D plans establish formularies that
    govern the drugs and biologicals that will be offered and the
    out-of-pocket obligations for such products. In addition, plans
    negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers and pass on some of
    those savings to Medicare beneficiaries.

The availability of federal funds to pay for our products under
    the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we
    extend discounts under the 340B/PHS drug pricing program. The
    340B/PHS drug pricing program extends discounts to a variety of
    community health clinics and other entities that receive health
    services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a
    disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries.

We also make our products available for purchase by authorized
    users of the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) of the General
    Services Administration pursuant to our FSS contract with the
    Department of Veterans Affairs. Under the Veterans Health Care
    Act of 1992 (VHC Act) we are required to offer deeply discounted
    FSS contract pricing to four Federal agencies   the
    Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, the
    Coast Guard and the PHS (including the Indian Health
    Service)   for federal funding to be made available
    for reimbursement of any of our products under the Medicaid
    program and for our products to be eligible to be purchased by
    those four Federal agencies and certain Federal grantees. FSS
    pricing to those four Federal agencies must be equal to or less
    than the  Federal Ceiling Price,  which is, at a
    minimum, 24% below the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price
    (Non-FAMP) for the prior fiscal year. In addition, if we are
    found to have knowingly submitted false information to the
    government, the VHC Act provides for civil monetary penalties up
    to $100,000 per false item of information in addition to other
    penalties available to the government.

Under the 2008 National Defense Authorization Act, we are
    required to treat the TRICARE retail pharmacy program, which
    reimburses military personnel for drug purchases from retail
    pharmacies, as an element of the Department of Defense to ensure
    the application of the VHC Act s pricing standards.

We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining
    to health care  fraud and abuse,  including
    anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws
    make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit,
    offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to
    induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or
    prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the
    statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of
    regulations and very few court decisions addressing industry
    practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged
    under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit
    anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be
    presented for payment to third party payors (including Medicare
    and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are
    false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided
    as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or
    services. In addition, several states require that companies
    implement compliance programs or comply with industry ethics
    codes, adopt spending limits, and report to state governments
    any gifts, compensation, and other remuneration provided to
    physicians. Federal legislation, the Physician Payments Sunshine
    Act of 2009, also has been proposed that would require
    disclosure to the federal government of payments to physicians.
    Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our
    products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations
    of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well
    as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care
    programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government
    were to allege or convict us of violating these laws, our
    business could be harmed. In addition, private individuals may
    bring similar actions.

Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons
    discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the
    increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement
    authorities. Further, there are an increasing number of state
    laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on
    pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
    ambiguous requirements. Given the lack of clarity in laws and
    their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to
    the penalty provisions of the pertinent state authorities.

17

Table of Contents   

Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or
    future legislation may have a significant effect on our
    business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products may
    depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the
    costs of our products and related treatments will be available
    in the U.S. and worldwide from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists as to the
    reimbursement status by third party payors of newly approved
    health care products.

Other
    Regulations   

Foreign
    Anti-Corruption  

We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
    (FCPA), which prohibits U.S. corporations and their
    representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising,
    authorizing, or making payments of anything of value to any
    foreign government official, government staff member, political
    party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain
    business or to otherwise influence a person working in an
    official capacity. In many countries, the health care
    professionals we regularly interact with may meet the
    FCPA s definition of a foreign government official. The
    FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and
    records that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions
    and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal
    accounting controls.

In 2010, the Bribery Act was passed in the United Kingdom, which
    proscribes giving and receiving bribes in the public and private
    sectors, bribing a foreign public official, and failing to have
    adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from
    giving bribes. U.S. corporations that conduct business in the
    United Kingdom generally will be subject to the Bribery Act.
    Penalties under the Bribery Act include potentially unlimited
    fines for corporations and criminal sanctions for corporate
    officers under certain circumstances.

NIH
    Guidelines  

We conduct research at our U.S. facilities in compliance with
    the current U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines
    for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules (NIH
    Guidelines) and all other applicable federal and state
    regulations. By local ordinance, we are required to, among other
    things, comply with the NIH Guidelines in relation to our
    facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts and Research Triangle
    Park, North Carolina and are required to operate pursuant to
    certain permits.

Other
    Laws  

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be
    subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws,
    regulations and recommendations relating to safe working
    conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of
    animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export
    and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous
    substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious
    disease agents, used in connection with our research work are or
    may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered
    into by us involving exclusive license rights may be subject to
    national or international antitrust regulatory control, the
    effect of which cannot be predicted. The extent of government
    regulation, which might result from future legislation or
    administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted.

Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials  

We are focused on the manufacture of biologics. The chart below
    outlines the location of our primary manufacturing locations and
    products manufactured therein.

Research 

Triangle 

Product 

Park, NC 

Cambridge, MA 

Third Party 

AVONEX  

TYSABRI  

FUMADERM  

CLINICAL PRODUCTS  

We currently produce all of our bulk AVONEX at our manufacturing
    facilities located in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
    (RTP) and Cambridge, Massachusetts. We currently produce TYSABRI
    at our RTP facility. In April 2009, the FDA approved our high
    titer process for the production of TYSABRI. Similar approval
    was obtained from

18

Table of Contents   

the EMA in December 2008. Genentech is responsible for all
    worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk RITUXAN and has
    sourced the manufacturing of certain bulk RITUXAN requirements
    to an independent third party.

We plan to stop further validation of our large-scale
    manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark following
    completion of the facility s operational qualification
    activities in the first half of 2011 as we continue to evaluate
    our current manufacturing utilization strategy. This facility is
    intended to manufacture large molecule products. Recent
    manufacturing improvements have resulted in favorable production
    yields on TYSABRI, that along with slower than expected TYSABRI
    growth, have reduced our expected capacity requirements. As a
    result, we have decided to delay the start of manufacturing
    activities at this site until additional capacity is required by
    the business.

We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw materials and
    supplies required for the production of AVONEX, TYSABRI and
    FUMADERM are available from various suppliers in quantities
    adequate to meet our needs. However, due to the unique nature of
    the production of our products, we do have single source
    providers of several raw materials. We make efforts to qualify
    new vendors and to develop contingency plans so that production
    is not impacted by short-term issues associated with single
    source providers. Each of our third party service providers,
    suppliers and manufacturers is subject to continuing inspection
    by the FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions. Any
    delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the
    manufacture, fill-finish, packaging or storage of our products,
    including as a result of a failure of our facilities or the
    facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory
    agency inspection, could significantly impair our ability to
    sell our products.

Important factors that could adversely affect our manufacturing
    operations are discussed in the   Risk Factors  
    section of this report.

Our
    Employees  

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    4,850 employees worldwide. We are in the process of
    completing a 13% reduction in our workforce as part of our
    framework for growth initiatives. This workforce reduction
    impacts our sales, research and development and administrative
    functions.

Our
    Executive Officers (as of February 4, 2011)  

George A. Scangos ,  Ph.D. , 62, is our Chief
    Executive Officer and has served in this position since July
    2010. Prior to that, Dr. Scangos served as President and
    Chief Executive Officer of Exelixis, Inc., a life sciences
    company, since October 1996, where he continues to serve on the
    board. From 1993 to 1996, Dr. Scangos served as President
    of Bayer Biotechnology, where he was responsible for research,
    business development, process development, manufacturing,
    engineering and quality assurance of Bayer s biological
    products. Before joining Bayer in 1987, Dr. Scangos was a
    Professor of Biology at Johns Hopkins University for six years.
    Dr. Scangos served as non-executive Chairman of Anadys
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, from 2005 to
    July 2010 and was a director of the company since 2003.
    Dr. Scangos served as the Chair of the California
    Healthcare Institute in 2010, was a member of the Board of the
    Global Alliance for TB Drug Developments until 2010, and is a
    director of Foundation Sante. He is also a member of the Board
    of Visitors of the University of California, San Francisco
    School of Pharmacy, and the National Board of Visitors of the
    University of California, Davis School of Medicine. He is
    currently an Adjunct Professor of Biology at Johns Hopkins.
    Dr. Scangos was a Jane Coffin Childs Post-Doctoral Fellow
    at Yale University. Dr. Scangos holds a B.A. in Biology
    from Cornell University and a Ph.D. in Microbiology from the
    University of Massachusetts.

Susan H. Alexander , 54, is our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation, a
    biopharmaceutical services company, since September 2003. From
    June 2001 to September 2003, Ms. Alexander served as
    General Counsel of IONA Technologies, a software company. Prior
    to that, Ms. Alexander served as Counsel at Cabot
    Corporation, a specialty chemicals and performance materials
    company, from January 1995 to May 2001. Prior to that,
    Ms. Alexander was a partner at the law firms of Hinckley,
    Allen   Snyder and Fine   Ambrogne.

Paul J. Clancy , 49, is our Executive Vice President,
    Finance and Chief Financial Officer and has served in these
    positions since August 2007. Mr. Clancy joined Biogen, Inc.
    in 2001 and has held several senior executive positions with us,
    including Vice President of Business Planning, Portfolio
    Management and U.S. Marketing, and Senior Vice President

19

Table of Contents   

of Finance with responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax,
    Investor Relations and Business Planning groups. Prior to that,
    he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, a food and beverage company,
    serving in a range of financial and general management
    positions. He holds a B.S. in finance from Babson College and a
    M.B.A. from Columbia University.

John G. Cox , 48, is our Executive Vice President,
    Pharmaceutical Operations and Technology and has served in this
    position since June 2010. Mr. Cox joined Biogen, Inc. in
    2003 and has held several senior executive positions with us,
    including Senior Vice President of Technical Operations, Senior
    Vice President of Global Manufacturing, and Vice President of
    Manufacturing and General Manager of Biogen Idec s
    operations in RTP. Prior to that, Mr. Cox held a number of
    senior operational roles at Diosynth, a life sciences
    manufacturing and services company, where he worked in
    technology transfer, validation and purification. Prior to that,
    Mr. Cox focused on the same areas at Wyeth Corporation, a
    life sciences company, from 1993 to 2000.

Robert E. Gagnon , 36, is our Vice President, Finance,
    Chief Accounting Officer and Controller and has served in these
    positions since November 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Gagnon
    served as Vice President, Finance and Controller from July 2007
    to November 2010, and Director of Corporate Accounting from
    October 2005 to July 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Gagnon worked
    in the business advisory and assurance practices of
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Deloitte   Touche LLP.
    Mr. Gagnon is a certified public accountant and holds an
    M.B.A. from the MIT Sloan School of Management.

Francesco Granata, M.D. , 60, is our Executive Vice
    President, Global Commercial Operations and has served in this
    position since January 2010. Prior to that, Dr. Granata
    served as Group Vice President and President of EUCAN Region in
    the Global Pharmaceutical Business at Schering-Plough
    Corporation, a pharmaceutical company, from September 2005 to
    November 2010. Prior to that, Dr. Granata worked in
    commercial leadership positions at Pfizer, Inc., a
    pharmaceutical company, from 2003 to 2005 and at Pharmacia
    Corporation, a life sciences company, from 1999 to 2003.

Stephen H. Holtzman , 56, is our Executive Vice President,
    Corporate Development and has served in this position since
    January 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Holtzman was a founder of
    Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a drug discovery and development
    company, where he has served as Chair of the Board of Directors
    since 2001, and served as Executive Chair of the Board of
    Directors in 2010 and as Chief Executive Officer from 2001 to
    December 2009. From 1994 to 2001, Mr. Holtzman was Chief
    Business Officer at Millenium Pharmaceuticals Inc., a
    biopharmaceutical company. From 1986 to 1994, he was the
    co-founder, member of the Board of Directors and Executive Vice
    President of DNX Corporation, a biotechnology company. From 1996
    to 2001, Mr. Holtzman served as presidential appointee to
    the national Bioethics Advisory Commission.

Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. , 63, is our Executive
    Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications and has served in this position since October
    2007. Dr. Schneier joined Biogen, Inc. in 2001 and has held
    several senior executive positions with us, including Executive
    Vice President, Human Resources and Senior Vice President,
    Strategic Organization Design and Effectiveness. Prior to that,
    Dr. Schneier was president of his own management consulting
    firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided consulting services to
    over 70 of the Fortune 100 companies, as well as several of
    the largest European and Asian firms. Dr. Schneier held a
    tenured professorship at the University of Maryland s Smith
    School of Business and has held teaching positions at the
    business schools of the University of Michigan, Columbia
    University, and at the Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth
    College.

Douglas E. Williams, Ph.D. , 52, is our Executive
    Vice President, Research and Development and has served in this
    position since January 2011. Prior to that, Dr. Williams
    held several senior executive positions at ZymoGenetics Inc., a
    biopharmaceutical company, including Chief Executive Officer and
    a director from January 2009 to October 2010, President and
    Chief Scientific Officer from July 2007 to January 2009, and
    Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief
    Scientific Officer from 2004 to July 2007. Prior to that, he
    held leadership positions within the biotechnology industry,
    including Chief Scientific Officer and Executive Vice President
    of Research and Development at Seattle Genetics Inc., a
    biotechnology company, from 2003 to 2004, and Senior Vice
    President and Washington Site Leader at Amgen Inc., a
    biotechnology company, in 2002. Dr. Williams also served in
    a series of scientific and senior leadership positions over a
    decade at Immunex Corp., a biopharmaceutical company, including
    Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, Senior
    Vice President of Discovery Research, Vice President of Research
    and Development and as a director. Prior to that,
    Dr. Williams served on the faculty of the Indiana
    University School of Medicine and the Department of Laboratory
    Medicine at the Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo, New
    York.

20

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

We are
    substantially dependent on revenues from our three principal
    products.   

Our current and future revenues depend upon continued sales of
    our three principal products, AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, which
    represented substantially all of our total revenues during 2010.
    Although we have developed and continue to develop additional
    products for commercial introduction, we may be substantially
    dependent on sales from these three products for many years. Any
    negative developments relating to any of these products, such as
    safety or efficacy issues, the introduction or greater
    acceptance of competing products, including biosimilars, or
    adverse regulatory or legislative developments may reduce our
    revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. New
    competing products for use in multiple sclerosis are beginning
    to enter the market and if they have a similar or more
    attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience or safety,
    future sales of AVONEX and TYSABRI could be limited, which would
    reduce our revenues.

TYSABRI s
    sales growth is important to our success.   

We expect that our revenue growth over the next several years
    will be dependent in part upon sales of TYSABRI. If we are not
    successful in growing sales of TYSABRI, our future business
    plans, revenue growth and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.

TYSABRI s sales growth cannot be certain given the
    significant restrictions on use and the significant safety
    warnings in the label, including the risk of developing
    progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a serious
    brain infection. The risk of developing PML increases with prior
    immunosuppressant use, which may cause patients who have
    previously received immunosuppressants or their physicians to
    refrain from using or prescribing TYSABRI. The risk of
    developing PML also increases with longer treatment duration,
    with limited experience beyond three years. This may cause
    prescribing physicians or patients to suspend treatment with
    TYSABRI. Increased incidences of PML could limit sales growth,
    prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the
    label or result in market withdrawal. Additional regulatory
    restrictions on the use of TYSABRI or safety-related label
    changes, including enhanced risk management programs, whether as
    a result of additional cases of PML or otherwise, may
    significantly reduce expected revenues and require significant
    expense and management time to address the associated legal and
    regulatory issues. In addition, ongoing or future clinical
    trials involving TYSABRI and efforts at stratifying patients
    into groups with lower or higher risk for developing PML,
    including evaluating the potential clinical utility of a JC
    virus antibody assay, may have an adverse impact on prescribing
    behavior and reduce sales of TYSABRI.

If we
    fail to compete effectively, our business and market position
    would suffer.   

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry is intensely
    competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our
    products, the development of new products and processes, the
    acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential
    and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with
    biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater
    number of products on the market and in the product pipeline,
    greater financial and other resources and other technological or
    competitive advantages. One or more of our competitors may
    benefit from significantly greater sales and marketing
    capabilities, may develop products that are accepted more widely
    than ours and may receive patent protection that dominates,
    blocks or adversely affects our product development or business.
    In addition, recently enacted healthcare reform legislation in
    the U.S. has created a pathway for the FDA to approve
    biosimilars, which could compete on price and differentiation
    with products that we now or could in the future market. The
    introduction of more efficacious, safer, cheaper, or more
    convenient alternatives to our products could reduce our
    revenues and the value of our product development efforts.

Our
    long-term success depends upon the successful development and
    commercialization of other product candidates.   

Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the
    successful development and commercialization of other products
    from our research and development activities, including products
    licensed from third parties. In addition, we have several
    late-stage clinical programs expected to have near-term data
    readouts that could impact our prospects for additional revenue
    growth. Product development and commercialization are very
    expensive and

21

Table of Contents   

involve a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research
    and development programs result in the commercialization of a
    product. Success in preclinical work or early stage clinical
    trials does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical
    trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials
    are successful, product candidates may not receive marketing
    approval if regulatory authorities disagree with our view of the
    data or require additional studies.

Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and
    expensive process. Our ability to complete our clinical trials
    in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key
    factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional
    review board approval, the rate of patient enrollment in
    clinical trials, and compliance with extensive current good
    clinical practice requirements. We have opened clinical sites
    and are enrolling patients in a number of new countries where
    our experience is more limited, and we are in many cases using
    the services of third-party clinical trial providers. If we fail
    to adequately manage the design, execution and regulatory
    aspects of our large, complex and diverse clinical trials, our
    studies and ultimately our regulatory approvals may be delayed
    or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates
    altogether.

Our product pipeline includes several small molecule drug
    candidates. Our small molecule drug discovery platform is not as
    well developed as our biologics platform and we expect to rely
    on third party manufacturers to supply substantially all of our
    clinical requirements for small molecules. If these
    manufacturers fail to deliver sufficient quantities of such drug
    candidates in a timely and cost-effective manner, it could
    adversely affect our small molecule drug discovery efforts.

Adverse
    safety events can negatively affect our business and stock
    price.   

Adverse safety events involving our marketed products may have a
    negative impact on our commercialization efforts. Later
    discovery of safety issues with our products that were not known
    at the time of their approval by the FDA or other regulatory
    agencies worldwide could cause product liability events,
    additional regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional
    labeling, withdrawal of products from the market and the
    imposition of fines or criminal penalties. Any of these actions
    could result in, among other things, material write-offs of
    inventory and impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and
    fixed assets and material restructuring charges. In addition,
    the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products
    and public rumors about such events could cause our stock price
    to decline or experience periods of volatility.

We
    depend, to a significant extent, on reimbursement from third
    party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement
    could reduce our product sales and revenue.   

Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the
    availability and extent of reimbursement from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Changes in government regulations or private
    third-party payors  reimbursement policies may reduce
    reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future
    results. In addition, when a new medical product is approved,
    the availability of government and private reimbursement for
    that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that
    product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability
    or amount of reimbursement for our product candidates.

The U.S. Congress recently enacted legislation to reform
    the health care system. This legislation imposes cost
    containment measures that have adversely affected the amount of
    reimbursement for our products. These measures include
    increasing the minimum rebates we pay to state Medicaid programs
    for our drugs covered by Medicaid programs; extending such
    rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in
    Medicaid managed care organizations; and expanding the 340B
    Public Health Service drug discount program under which we are
    obligated to provide certain discounts on our drugs to certain
    purchasers. Additional provisions of the health care reform
    legislation, which become effective in 2011, may negatively
    affect our revenues and prospects for profitability in the
    future. Beginning in 2011, a new fee will be payable by all
    branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers. This fee
    will be calculated based upon each organization s
    percentage share of total branded prescription drugs sales to
    qualifying U.S. government programs, including Medicare and
    Medicaid. As part of the health care reform legislation s
    provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the
    Medicare Part D prescription drug

22

Table of Contents   

program (commonly known as the  donut hole ), we will
    also be required to provide a 50% discount on brand name
    prescription drugs sold to beneficiaries who fall within the
    donut hole.

Economic pressure on state budgets may result in states
    increasingly seeking to achieve budget savings through
    mechanisms that limit coverage or payment for our drugs. In
    recent years, some states have considered legislation that would
    control the prices of drugs. State Medicaid programs are
    increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental
    rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program
    for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being
    paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price
    discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the
    coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce
    Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care
    organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed
    care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a
    larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint
    on prices and reimbursement for our products. It is likely that
    federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue
    to focus on additional health care reform in the future.

We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    other countries. In the European Union and some other
    international markets, the government provides health care at
    low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices,
    patient eligibility or reimbursement levels to control costs for
    the government-sponsored health care system. Many countries are
    reducing their public expenditures and we expect to see strong
    efforts to reduce healthcare costs in our international markets,
    including patient access restrictions, suspensions on price
    increases, prospective and possibly retroactive price reductions
    and increased mandatory discounts or rebates, recoveries of past
    price increases, and greater importation of drugs from
    lower-cost countries to higher-cost countries. We expect that
    our revenues would be negatively impacted if similar measures
    are or are continued to be implemented in other countries in
    which we operate. In addition, certain countries set prices by
    reference to the prices in other countries where our products
    are marketed. Thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a
    particular country may also impair our ability to obtain
    acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets. This
    may create the opportunity for third party cross border trade or
    influence our decision to sell or not to sell a product, thus
    affecting our geographic expansion plans.

Adverse
    market and economic conditions may exacerbate certain risks
    affecting our business.   

Sales of our products are dependent on reimbursement from
    government health administration authorities, private health
    insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. As a
    result of adverse conditions affecting the U.S. and global
    economies and credit and financial markets, including the
    current sovereign debt crisis in certain countries in Europe,
    these organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement
    obligations or may delay payment. In addition, governmental
    health authorities may reduce the extent of reimbursements, and
    private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A
    reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could
    reduce our product sales and revenue, or result in additional
    allowances or significant bad debts, which may adversely affect
    our results of operations.

We
    depend on collaborators and other third-parties for both product
    and royalty revenue and the clinical development of future
    products, which are outside of our full control.   

Collaborations between companies on products or programs are a
    common business practice in the biotechnology industry.
    Out-licensing typically allows a partner to collect up front
    payments and future milestone payments, share the costs of
    clinical development and risk of failure at various points, and
    access sales and marketing infrastructure and expertise in
    exchange for certain financial rights to the product or program
    going to the in-licensing partner. In addition, the obligation
    of in-licensees to pay royalties or share profits generally
    terminates upon expiration of the related patents. We have a
    number of collaborators and partners, and have both in-licensed
    and out-licensed several products and programs. These
    collaborations are subject to several risks:

Our RITUXAN revenues are substantially dependent on the efforts
    of Genentech and the Roche Group. Their interests may not always
    be aligned with our interests and they may not market RITUXAN in
    the same manner or to the same extent that we would, which could
    adversely affect our RITUXAN revenues.

23

Table of Contents   

Under our collaboration agreement with Genentech, the successful
    development and commercialization of GA101 and certain other
    anti-CD20 products will decrease our percentage of the
    collaboration s co-promotion profits.

We are not fully in control of the royalty or profit sharing
    revenues we receive from collaborators, which may be adversely
    affected by patent expirations, pricing or health care reforms,
    other legal and regulatory developments, and the introduction of
    competitive products, and new indication approvals which may
    affect the sales of collaboration products.

Any failure on the part of our collaboration partners to comply
    with applicable laws and regulatory requirements in the sale and
    marketing of our products could have an adverse effect on our
    revenues as well as involve us in possible legal proceedings.

Collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and
    failure to do so effectively could have an adverse impact on
    product sales by our collaborators and partners, and could
    adversely affect the clinical development or regulatory
    approvals of products under joint control.

In addition, we rely on third parties for several other aspects
    of our business. As a sponsor of clinical trials of our
    products, we rely on third party contract research organizations
    to carry out many of our clinical trial related activities.
    These activities include initiating the conduct of studies at
    clinical trial sites, regularly monitoring the conduct of the
    study at study sites, and identifying instances of noncompliance
    with the study protocol or current Good Clinical Practices. The
    failure of a contract research organization to conduct these
    activities with proper vigilance and competence and in
    accordance with Good Clinical Practices can result in regulatory
    authorities rejecting our clinical trial data or, in some
    circumstances, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions
    against us.

If we
    do not successfully execute our growth initiatives through the
    acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products,
    technologies or companies, our future performance could be
    adversely affected.   

We anticipate growing through internal development projects as
    well as external opportunities, which include the acquisition,
    partnering and in-licensing of products, technologies and
    companies or the entry into strategic alliances and
    collaborations. The availability of high quality opportunities
    is limited and we are not certain that we will be able to
    identify candidates that we and our shareholders consider
    suitable or complete transactions on terms that are acceptable
    to us and our shareholders. In order to pursue such
    opportunities, we may require significant additional financing,
    which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.
    Even if we are able to successfully identify and complete
    acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate them or take full
    advantage of them and therefore may not realize the benefits
    that we expect. If we are unsuccessful in our external growth
    program, we may not be able to grow our business significantly
    and we may incur asset impairment or restructuring charges as a
    result of unsuccessful transactions.

If we
    fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory
    requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face
    increased costs, penalties and a loss of business.   

Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators and
    third party providers, are subject to extensive government
    regulation and oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign
    jurisdictions. The FDA and comparable agencies in other
    jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical
    business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and
    clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and
    promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and
    product risk management. Our interactions in the U.S. or
    abroad with physicians and other health care providers that
    prescribe or purchase our products are also subject to
    government regulation designed to prevent fraud and abuse in the
    sale and use of the products. In the U.S., states increasingly
    have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing
    practices of health care companies. In addition, pharmaceutical
    and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and
    investigations alleging violations of government regulation,
    including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing
    information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical
    products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal
    or state health care business, submission of false claims for
    government reimbursement, antitrust violations, or violations
    related to environmental matters. Violations of governmental
    regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions
    against us, including fines and civil monetary penalties and
    exclusion from participation in government programs, including

24

Table of Contents   

Medicare and Medicaid, as well as against executives overseeing
    our business. In addition to penalties for violation of laws and
    regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received
    from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest
    if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we
    have submitted to the government. Whether or not we have
    complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful
    conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation,
    divert management time and attention and adversely affect our
    business. Recent changes in U.S. fraud and abuse laws have
    strengthened government regulation, increased the investigative
    powers of government enforcement agencies, and enhanced
    penalties for non-compliance.

If we
    fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental
    regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur
    substantial costs and a reduction in sales.   

We and our third party providers are generally required to
    maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice and
    are subject to inspections by the FDA and comparable agencies in
    other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. In addition, the
    FDA must approve any significant changes to our suppliers or
    manufacturing methods. If we or our third party service
    providers cannot demonstrate ongoing current Good Manufacturing
    Practice compliance, we may be required to withdraw or recall
    product, interrupt commercial supply of our products, undertake
    costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing
    alternatives. Any delay, interruption or other issues that arise
    in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our
    products as a result of a failure of our facilities or the
    facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory
    agency inspection could significantly impair our ability to
    develop and commercialize our products. Significant
    noncompliance could also result in the imposition of monetary
    penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions. This
    non-compliance could increase our costs, cause us to lose
    revenue or market share and damage our reputation.

Our
    investments in properties, including our manufacturing
    facilities, may not be fully realizable.   

We own or lease real estate primarily consisting of buildings
    that contain research laboratories, office space, and biologic
    manufacturing operations, some of which are located in markets
    that are experiencing high vacancy rates and decreasing property
    values. If we decide to consolidate or co-locate certain aspects
    of our business operations, for strategic or other operational
    reasons, we may dispose of one or more of our properties.

Due to reduced expectations of product demand, improved yields
    on production and other factors, we may not fully utilize our
    manufacturing facilities at normal levels resulting in idle time
    at facilities or substantial excess manufacturing capacity. We
    regularly evaluate our current manufacturing strategy, and may
    pursue alternatives that include disposing of manufacturing
    facilities.

If we determine that the fair value of any of our owned
    properties, including any properties we may classify as held for
    sale, is lower than their book value we may not realize the full
    investment in these properties and incur significant impairment
    charges. In addition, if we decide to fully or partially vacate
    a leased property, we may incur significant cost, including
    lease termination fees, rent expense in excess of sublease
    income and impairment of leasehold improvements.

Problems
    with manufacturing or with inventory planning could result in
    inventory shortages, product recalls and increased
    costs.   

Biologics manufacturing is extremely susceptible to product loss
    due to contamination, equipment failure, or vendor or operator
    error. In addition, we may need to close a manufacturing
    facility for an extended period of time due to microbial, viral
    or other contamination. Any of these events could result in
    shipment delays or product recalls, impairing our ability to
    supply products in existing markets or expand into new markets.
    In the past, we have taken inventory write-offs and incurred
    other charges and expenses for products that failed to meet
    specifications, and we may incur similar charges in the future.

We rely solely on our manufacturing facility in Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina for the production of TYSABRI. Our
    global bulk supply of TYSABRI depends on the uninterrupted and
    efficient operation of this facility, which could be adversely
    affected by equipment failures, labor shortages, natural
    disasters, power failures and numerous other factors. If we are
    unable to meet demand for TYSABRI for any reason, we would need
    to rely on a limited number of qualified third party contract
    manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we could reach
    agreement on reasonable terms, if at all, with those
    manufacturers or that the FDA or other regulatory authorities

25

Table of Contents   

would approve our use of such manufacturers on a timely basis,
    if at all. Moreover, the transition of our manufacturing process
    to a third party could take a significant amount of time,
    involve significant expense and increase our manufacturing costs.

We
    rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, manufacture
    the product itself.   

We rely on Genentech for all RITUXAN manufacturing. Genentech
    relies on a third party to manufacture certain bulk RITUXAN
    requirements. If Genentech or any third party upon which it
    relies does not manufacture or fill-finish RITUXAN in sufficient
    quantities and on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if
    Genentech or any third party does not obtain and maintain all
    required manufacturing approvals, our business could be harmed.

We also source all of our fill-finish and the majority of our
    final product storage operations, along with a substantial
    portion of our packaging operations, to a concentrated group of
    third party contractors. Any third party we use to fill-finish,
    package or store our products to be sold in the U.S. must
    be licensed by the FDA. As a result, alternative third party
    providers may not be readily available on a timely basis or, if
    available, may be more costly than current providers. The
    manufacture of products and product components, fill-finish,
    packaging and storage of our products require successful
    coordination among us and multiple third party providers. Our
    inability to coordinate these efforts, the lack of capacity
    available at a third party contractor or any other problems with
    the operations of these third party contractors could require us
    to delay shipment of saleable products or recall products
    previously shipped or impair our ability to supply products at
    all. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or
    market share, diminish our profitability or damage our
    reputation.

Due to the unique manner in which our products are manufactured,
    we rely on single source providers of several raw materials. We
    make efforts to qualify new vendors and to develop contingency
    plans so that production is not impacted by short-term issues
    associated with single source providers. Nonetheless, our
    business could be materially impacted by long-term or chronic
    issues associated with single source providers.

Changes
    in laws affecting the health care industry could adversely
    affect our revenues and profitability.   

We and our collaborators and third party providers operate in a
    highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may
    adversely affect our business, operations or financial
    condition, including:

new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new
    interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions,
    related to health care availability, method of delivery and
    payment for health care products and services;

changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes
    that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
    result in lost market opportunity;

changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require
    additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on
    product distribution or use, or other measures after the
    introduction of our products to market, which could increase our
    costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted
    uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the
    market for our products;

new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing
    or marketing practices; and

changes in the tax laws relating to our operations.

The enactment in the U.S. of health care reform, potential
    regulations easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics in
    the marketplace, new legislation or implementation of existing
    statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing
    drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative
    effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and
    possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our
    business.

Our
    effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in
    tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts.   

As a global biotechnology company, we are subject to taxation in
    numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result,
    our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of
    applicable tax rates in the various

26

Table of Contents   

places that we operate. In preparing our financial statements,
    we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each
    of such places. Our effective tax rate, however, may be
    different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors,
    including changes in the mix of our profitability from country
    to country, the results of audits of our tax filings, changes in
    accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of
    these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate
    significantly different from previous periods or our current
    expectations.

In addition, our inability to secure or sustain acceptable
    arrangements with tax authorities and previously enacted or
    future changes in the tax laws, among other things, may result
    in tax obligations in excess of amounts accrued in our financial
    statements.

In the U.S., there are several proposals under consideration to
    reform tax law, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate
    the deferral of U.S. income tax on our unrepatriated
    earnings, scrutinize certain transfer pricing structures, and
    reduce or eliminate certain foreign tax credits. Our future
    reported financial results may be adversely affected by tax law
    changes which restrict or eliminate certain foreign tax credits
    or deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or
    otherwise affect the treatment of our unrepatriated earnings.

The
    growth of our business depends on our ability to attract and
    retain qualified personnel and key relationships.   

The achievement of our commercial, research and development and
    external growth objectives depends upon our ability to attract
    and retain qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales and
    marketing and executive personnel and to develop and maintain
    relationships with qualified clinical researchers and key
    distributors. Competition for these people and relationships is
    intense and comes from a variety of sources, including
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and
    non-profit research organizations.

Our
    sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally.   

We are increasing our presence in international markets, which
    subjects us to many risks, such as:

the inability to obtain necessary foreign regulatory or pricing
    approvals of products in a timely manner;

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;

the imposition of governmental controls;

less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;

restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade
    restrictions; and

changes in tax laws and tariffs.

In addition, our international operations are subject to
    regulation under U.S. law. For example, the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or
    retaining business abroad. In many countries, the health care
    professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition
    of a foreign government official for purposes of the Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with domestic or
    foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences,
    including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a
    product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product
    from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions
    and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international
    operations.

Uncertainty
    over intellectual property in the biotechnology industry has
    been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and
    unpredictable.   

We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and
    in other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to
    our business. Some of those patents and patent applications
    claim only specific products or methods of making such products,
    while others claim more general processes or techniques useful
    or now used in

27

Table of Contents   

the biotechnology industry. There is considerable uncertainty
    within the biotechnology industry about the validity, scope and
    enforceability of many issued patents in the U.S. and
    elsewhere in the world, and, to date, there is no consistent
    policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology
    patents. We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and
    validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the
    future or which patents might be asserted to be infringed by the
    manufacture, use and sale of our products.

There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. Litigation and
    administrative proceedings concerning patents and other
    intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and
    distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of
    delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation,
    including any interference proceedings to determine priority of
    inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or
    litigation against our partners may be costly and time consuming
    and could harm our business. We expect that litigation may be
    necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope
    of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be
    necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or
    non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could
    adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other
    proprietary rights or hinder our ability to manufacture and
    market our products.

If we
    are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual
    property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our
    development efforts or our acquired technology.   

We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and
    various other countries seeking protection of the processes,
    products and other inventions originating from our research and
    development. Patents have been issued on many of these
    applications. We have also obtained rights to various patents
    and patent applications under licenses with third parties, which
    provide for the payment of royalties by us. The ultimate degree
    of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology
    products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in
    other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon
    the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices,
    courts and lawmakers in these countries. Our patents may not
    afford us substantial protection or commercial benefit.
    Similarly, our pending patent applications or patent
    applications licensed from third parties may not ultimately be
    granted as patents and we may not prevail if patents that have
    been issued to us are challenged in court. In addition, pending
    legislation to reform the patent system and court decisions or
    patent office regulations that place additional restrictions on
    patent claims or that facilitate patent challenges could also
    reduce our ability to protect our intellectual property rights.
    If we cannot prevent others from exploiting our inventions, we
    will not derive the benefit from them that we currently expect.

We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and other proprietary
    information, and we cannot ensure that others will not
    independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary
    information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade
    secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully
    protect such rights. We require our employees, consultants,
    outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we
    sponsor and other advisers to execute confidentiality agreements
    upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships
    with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection
    or adequate remedies for our unpatented proprietary information
    in the event of use or disclosure of such information.

If our
    products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we
    may incur damages and be required to incur the expense of
    obtaining a license.   

A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. To the extent
    that valid third party patent rights cover our products or
    services, we or our strategic collaborators would be required to
    seek licenses from the holders of these patents in order to
    manufacture, use or sell these products and services, and
    payments under them would reduce our profits from these products
    and services. We are currently unable to predict the extent to
    which we may wish or be required to acquire rights under such
    patents and the availability and cost of acquiring such rights,
    or whether a license to such patents will be available on
    acceptable terms or at all. There may be patents in the
    U.S. or in foreign countries or patents issued in the
    future that are unavailable to license on acceptable terms. Our
    inability to obtain such licenses may hinder our ability to
    manufacture and market our products.

28

Table of Contents   

Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation.   

The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical
    studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product
    liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause
    of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or
    may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug
    interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those
    effects until the product or product candidate has been
    administered to patients for a prolonged period of time.

We are subject from time to time to lawsuits based on product
    liability and related claims. We cannot predict with certainty
    the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. We may
    not be successful in defending ourselves in the litigation and,
    as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These
    lawsuits may result in large judgments or settlements against
    us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial
    condition and business if in excess of our insurance coverage.
    Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or
    not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert
    the attention of our management and other resources that would
    otherwise be engaged in managing our business.

Our
    operating results are subject to significant
    fluctuations.   

Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have
    fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly
    in the future due to the timing of charges and expenses that we
    may take. In recent periods, for instance, we have recorded
    charges that include:

the cost of restructurings;

impairments that we are required to take with respect to
    investments;

impairments that we are required to take with respect to fixed
    assets, including those that are recorded in connection with the
    sale of fixed assets;

inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges
    for excess or obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write
    downs relating to product suspensions;

milestone payments under license and collaboration agreements;
    and

payments in connection with acquisitions and other business
    development activity.

Our revenues are also subject to foreign exchange rate
    fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. We
    recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our
    operations in the period in which we incur those gains or
    losses. Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to
    hedge specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign
    currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may
    not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuations among our
    reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the currencies in
    which we do business will affect our operating results, often in
    unpredictable ways. Our net income may also fluctuate due to the
    impact of charges we may be required to take with respect to
    foreign currency hedge transactions. In particular, we may incur
    higher charges from hedge ineffectiveness than we expect or from
    the termination of a hedge relationship.

These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including
    those discussed in these   Risk Factors ,  could
    also cause fluctuations in our reported earnings. In addition,
    our operating results during any one period do not necessarily
    suggest the anticipated results of future periods.

Our
    portfolio of marketable securities is significant and subject to
    market, interest and credit risk that may reduce its
    value.   

We maintain a significant portfolio of marketable securities.
    Changes in the value of this portfolio could adversely affect
    our earnings. In particular, the value of our investments may
    decline due to increases in interest rates, downgrades in the
    corporate bonds and other securities included in our portfolio,
    instability in the global financial markets that reduces the
    liquidity of securities included in our portfolio, declines in
    the value of collateral underlying the mortgage and asset-backed
    securities included in our portfolio, and other factors. Each of
    these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the
    carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell investments
    for

29

Table of Contents   

less than our acquisition cost. Although we attempt to mitigate
    these risks by investing in high quality securities and
    continuously monitoring our portfolio s overall risk
    profile, the value of our investments may nevertheless decline.

Our
    level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business and
    limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our
    business.   

As of December 31, 2010, we had $1.2 billion of
    outstanding indebtedness, and we may incur additional debt in
    the future. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our
    business by, among other things:

requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
    reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes,
    including business development efforts and research and
    development;

limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and the industry in which we operate,
    thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that may have less debt; and

increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry
    conditions.

Our
    business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of
    compliance and the risk of contamination or
    injury.   

Our business and the business of several of our strategic
    partners, including Genentech and Elan, involve the controlled
    use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive
    compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for
    handling and disposing of such materials comply with state and
    federal standards, there will always be the risk of accidental
    contamination or injury. If we were to become liable for an
    accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown,
    we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that
    could harm our business. Biologics manufacturing also requires
    permits from government agencies for water supply and wastewater
    discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate permits, or permits
    for sufficient quantities of water and wastewater, we could
    incur significant costs and limits on our manufacturing volumes
    that could harm our business.

Several
    aspects of our corporate governance and our collaboration
    agreements may discourage a third party from attempting to
    acquire us.   

Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could
    be viewed as beneficial to shareholders who wish to receive a
    premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example:

Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without a
    vote or action of shareholders, shares of preferred stock and to
    fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those
    shares, which shares could be used to dilute the interest of a
    potential bidder.

Our collaboration agreements with Elan and Genentech
    respectively allow Elan to purchase our rights to TYSABRI and
    Genentech to purchase our rights to RITUXAN and certain
    anti-CD20 products developed under the agreement if we undergo a
    change of control and certain other conditions are met, which
    may limit our attractiveness to potential acquirers.

Our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the
    entire board from being replaced in any single year.

The
    possibility that activist shareholders may gain additional
    representation on or control of our Board of Directors could
    result in costs and disruption to our operations and cause
    uncertainty about the direction of our business.   

Entities affiliated with Carl Icahn commenced proxy contests in
    2008, 2009 and 2010, resulting in three of their director
    nominees being elected to our Board of Directors. In addition,
    recent SEC rulemaking gives certain shareholders or groups of
    shareholders the ability to include director nominees and
    proposals relating to a shareholder nomination process in
    company proxy materials. As a result, we may face an increase in
    the number of shareholder nominees for election to our Board of
    Directors. Future proxy contests could be costly and time-

30

Table of Contents   

consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of
    management and our employees from executing our strategic plan.
    Disagreement among our directors may create uncertainty
    regarding the direction of our business and could impair our
    ability to effectively execute our strategic plan.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2.      

Properties   

Below is a summary of our owned and leased properties as of
    December 31, 2010. In connection with our recent
    restructuring initiative, described above under the heading
      Overview   Framework for Growth,   we
    are in the process of closing the San Diego, California
    facility and consolidating our Massachusetts facilities.

Massachusetts   

In Cambridge, we own approximately 508,000 square feet of
    real estate space, consisting of a building that houses a
    research laboratory, office space and a cogeneration plant which
    total approximately 263,000 square feet and a building that
    contains research, development and quality laboratories totaling
    approximately 245,000 square feet.

In addition, we lease a total of approximately
    885,000 square feet in Massachusetts, which is summarized
    as follows:

Our Massachusetts lease agreements expire at various dates
    through the year 2025.

California   

On October 1, 2010, we sold the San Diego facility,
    which was comprised of 43 acres of land and buildings
    totaling approximately 355,000 square feet of laboratory
    and office space for cash proceeds, net of transaction costs, of
    approximately $127.0 million. As part of this transaction,
    we agreed to lease back the San Diego facility for a period
    of 15 months, however in January 2011, we entered into an
    agreement to terminate this lease effective August 31, 2011.

North
    Carolina   

We manufacture bulk AVONEX, TYSABRI and other products in our
    pipeline at our facilities located in Research Triangle Park,
    North Carolina, where we own approximately 550,000 square
    feet of real estate space, which is summarized as follows:

In addition, we lease approximately 50,000 square feet of
    office space in Durham, North Carolina.

31

Table of Contents   

We are planning to increase the laboratory space in our Research
    Triangle Park campus and consolidate all of our North Carolina
    activities by moving local general and administrative offices
    and patient services to a 180,000 square foot office
    building to be built on the campus, with a planned occupancy
    around mid-year 2012.

Denmark   

We own approximately 60 acres of land in Hiller d,
    Denmark, upon which we have been constructing a large-scale
    biologics manufacturing facility totaling approximately
    225,000 square feet. We plan to stop further validation on
    this facility following completion of the facility s
    operational qualification activities in the first half of 2011
    as we continue to evaluate our current manufacturing utilization
    strategy.

We own approximately 310,000 square feet of additional
    space, which is currently in use at this location and is
    summarized as follows:

Other
    International   

We lease office and laboratory space in Zug, Switzerland, our
    international headquarters, the United Kingdom, Germany, France,
    Denmark, and numerous other countries. Our international lease
    agreements expire at various dates through the year 2023.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

Please refer to Note 20,  Litigation  to our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report, which
    is incorporated into this item by reference.

Item 4.    

[Reserved]  

32

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Market
    and Stockholder Information  

Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under
    the symbol  BIIB.  The following table shows the high
    and low sales price for our common stock as reported by The
    NASDAQ Global Select Market for each quarter in the years ended
    December 31, 2010 and 2009:

As of January 31, 2011, there were approximately 1,052
    stockholders of record of our common stock.

In addition, as of January 31, 2011, 128 stockholders of
    record of Biogen, Inc. common stock have yet to exchange their
    shares of Biogen, Inc. common stock for our common stock as
    contemplated by the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation in November 2003.

Dividends  

We have not paid cash dividends since our inception. We do not
    anticipate paying any cash dividends in the near term.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

During the fourth quarter of 2010, we did not repurchase any
    common stock.

33

Table of Contents   

Stock
    Performance Graph  

The graph below compares the five-year cumulative total
    stockholder return on our common stock, the S P 500 Index
    and the Nasdaq Pharmaceutical Index, assuming the investment of
    $100.00 on December 31, 2005 with dividends being
    reinvested. The stock price performance in the graph below is
    not necessarily indicative of future price performance.

34

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Consolidated Financial Data   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

35

Table of Contents   

In addition to the following notes, the financial data included
    within the tables above should be read in conjunction with our
    consolidated financial statements and related notes and the
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   sections of this
    report and our previously filed
     Forms 10-K. 
    Certain totals may not sum due to rounding.

(1)  

Included in total cost and expenses in 2006 is a charge of
    $207.4 million for in process research and development from
    the acquisition of Fumapharm AG, a net gain of $6.1 million
    on the settlement of license agreements associated with
    Fumapharm AG and Fumedica GmbH and a charge of
    $123.1 million for in process research and development
    related to the acquisition of Conforma Therapeutics, Inc. 

(2)  

Included in total cost and expenses in 2007 is a charge of
    $18.4 million for in process research and development
    related to the acquisition of Syntonix Pharmaceuticals Inc. and
    $64.3 million related to our collaborations with Cardiokine
    Biopharma LLC and Neurimmune SubOne AG, which we consolidated as
    we determined that we were the primary beneficiary of these
    relationships. The $64.3 million was offset by an equal
    amount of noncontrolling interest, resulting in no net impact to
    the results of our operations. 

(3)  

In July 2007, we purchased approximately 56.4 million
    shares of our common stock pursuant to a tender offer. We funded
    the transaction through existing cash and cash equivalents of
    $1,490.5 million and a short term loan of
    $1,500.0 million. 

(4)  

Included in total cost and expenses in 2008 is
    $25.0 million for in process research and development
    related to a milestone payment made to the former shareholders
    of Conforma Therapeutics pursuant to the terms of our
    acquisition of Conforma Therapeutics in 2006. 

(5)  

Total cost and expenses in 2009 includes the $110.0 million
    upfront payment made to Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. pursuant to
    our June 30, 2009 collaboration and license agreement to
    develop and commercialize products containing fampridine in
    markets outside the U.S. 

(6)  

Changes in tax law in certain state jurisdictions in which we
    operate and the resolution of multiple federal, state and
    foreign tax audits, including the effective settlement of
    several uncertain tax positions resulted in a $58.3 million
    reduction to our 2009 income tax expense. 

(7)  

In 2009, we repurchased 16.0 million shares of our common
    stock at a cost of $751.2 million under our 2006 and
    2009 share repurchase programs. 

(8)  

Included in total cost and expenses in 2010 is a charge to
    acquired in process research and development of
    $40.0 million related to the achievement of a milestone by
    Biogen Idec Hemophilia, Inc. (formerly Syntonix Pharmaceuticals,
    Inc.). 

(9)  

Included in total cost and expenses in 2010 is a charge to
    acquired in process research and development of
    $205.0 million incurred in connection with the license
    agreement entered into with Knopp Neurosciences Inc. (Knopp),
    which we consolidated as we determined that we are the primary
    beneficiary of the entity. The $205.0 million charge was
    partially offset by an attribution of $145.0 million to the
    noncontrolling interest. 

(10 )   

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest also includes
    a charge of $25.0 million related to the payment made in
    2010 to Cardiokine Biopharma LLC pursuant to the termination of
    our lixivaptan collaboration. 

(11)  

During 2010, we repurchased approximately 40.3 million
    shares at a cost of approximately $2.1 billion under our
    2010 and 2009 share repurchase authorizations. 

36

Table of Contents   

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our
    consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on
     page F-1 
    of this report.

Executive
    Summary  

Introduction   

Biogen Idec is a global biotechnology company focused on
    discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products
    for the treatment of neurological disorders and other serious
    diseases. We have four marketed products: AVONEX, TYSABRI,
    RITUXAN and FUMADERM. Patients worldwide benefit from our
    significant products used for the treatment of multiple
    sclerosis (MS), non-Hodgkin s lymphoma (NHL), rheumatoid
    arthritis (RA), Crohn s disease, chronic lymphocytic
    leukemia (CLL) and psoriasis.

In the near term, our current and future revenues are dependent
    upon continued sales of our three principal products, AVONEX,
    RITUXAN and TYSABRI. In the longer term, our revenue growth will
    be dependent upon the successful pursuit of external business
    development opportunities and clinical development, regulatory
    approval and launch of new commercial products as well as upon
    our ability to protect our patents related to our marketed
    products and assets originating from our research and
    development efforts. As part of our ongoing research and
    development efforts, we have devoted significant resources to
    conducting clinical studies to advance the development of new
    pharmaceutical products and to explore the utility of our
    existing products in treating disorders beyond those currently
    approved in their labels.

On November 3, 2010, we announced a number of strategic,
    operational and organizational initiatives, which are described
    below under the heading   Restructuring Charges. 
     We expect to incur charges totaling approximately
    $110.0 million associated with the implementation of these
    initiatives, which are anticipated to be substantially completed
    by the end of 2011.

Financial
    Highlights   

The following table is a summary of financial results achieved:

(1) 

Income from operations for 2010 was reduced by approximately
    $40.0 million related to the achievement of a milestone by
    Biogen Idec Hemophilia, Inc. (formerly Syntonix Pharmaceuticals,
    Inc.) and a $205.0 million charge incurred in connection
    with the collaboration and license agreement entered into with
    Knopp Neurosciences Inc. (Knopp), which we consolidated as we
    determined that we were the primary beneficiary of this
    relationship. The $205.0 million was partially offset by an
    attribution of $145.0 million to the noncontrolling
    interest. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
    also includes a charge of $25.0 million related to the
    payment made in 2010 to Cardiokine Biopharma LLC (Cardiokine)
    pursuant to the termination of our lixivaptan collaboration.

(2) 

Income from operations, as well as net income attributable to
    Biogen Idec Inc. for 2010, were reduced by the $75.2 million
    restructuring charge recognized during the fourth quarter of
    2010.

(3) 

Income from operations for 2009 was reduced by the
    $110.0 million upfront payment made to Acorda Therapeutics,
    Inc. related to our collaboration and license agreement dated
    June 30, 2009.

As described below under   Results of
    Operations ,  our operating results for the year ended
    December 31, 2010, reflect the following:

37

Table of Contents   

Our share of TYSABRI revenues totaled $900.2 million for
    2010, representing an increase of 16.0% over 2009.

Our share of RITUXAN revenues totaled $1,077.2 million for
    2010, representing a decrease of 1.6% from 2009. This decrease
    was primarily driven by royalty expirations in our rest of world
    markets. Our share of revenue on sales of RITUXAN in the rest of
    world decreased 33.2% or $84.8 million from 2009. Our share
    of co-promotion profits in the U.S. increased 9.6% or
    $74.4 million over 2009. Selling and development expenses
    incurred by us and reimbursed by Genentech, which are also
    included within our total unconsolidated joint business
    revenues, decreased 11.1% to $58.3 million from the prior
    year comparative period.

Total cost and expenses increased 12.5% for 2010, compared to
    2009. This increase was primarily driven by the
    $245.0 million IPR D charge and the $75.2 million
    restructuring charges recognized in 2010 as well as a 13.2%
    increase in selling, general and administrative costs and a
    19.5% increase in collaboration profit sharing expense due to
    TYSABRI revenue growth, offset by a 27.9% decrease in
    amortization of acquired intangible assets.

In addition, we generated $1,624.7 million of net cash
    flows from operations for 2010, which were primarily driven by
    earnings. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities
    totaled approximately $1,950.8 million as of
    December 31, 2010.

In 2010, we repurchased approximately 40.3 million shares
    at a cost of approximately $2.1 billion under our 2010 and
    2009 share repurchase authorizations. We retired all of these
    shares as they were acquired. Our 2010 and 2009 share repurchase
    programs were completed during the third and first quarters of
    2010, respectively.

Business
    Development Highlights   

In December 2010, we completed our acquisition of Panima
    Pharmaceuticals AG (Panima), an affiliate of Neurimmune AG. The
    purchase price is comprised of a $32.5 million cash
    payment, plus contingent consideration in the form of
    development milestones of up to $395.0 million in cash.
    Panima is involved in the discovery of antibodies designed to
    treat neurological disorders. For a more detailed description of
    this transaction, please read Note 2,  Acquisitions
     to our consolidated financial statements included in this
    report.

In October 2010, we amended our collaboration agreement with
    Genentech with regard to the development of ocrelizumab and
    agreed to terms for the development of GA101. Under the terms of
    the amended agreement, Genentech is responsible for the further
    development and commercialization of ocrelizumab and funding
    future costs. We will receive tiered royalties between 13.5% and
    24% on U.S. sales of ocrelizumab. Commercialization of
    ocrelizumab will not impact our percentage of the co-promotion
    profits for RITUXAN. In addition, we will pay 35% of the
    development and commercialization expenses of GA101 and will
    receive between 35% and 39% of the profits of GA101 based upon
    the achievement of certain sales milestones. Commercialization
    of GA101 will impact our percentage of the co-promotion profits
    for RITUXAN. This amendment did not have an impact on our share
    of the co-promotion operating profits of RITUXAN in 2010. For a
    more detailed description of this collaboration, please read
    Note 19,  Collaborations  to our consolidated
    financial statements included in this report.

In August 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Knopp
    Neurosciences, Inc. (Knopp), for the development, manufacture
    and commercialization of dexpramipexole, an orally administered
    small molecule in clinical development for the treatment of
    amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Under the terms of the
    license agreement we made a $26.4 million upfront payment
    and agreed to pay Knopp up to an additional $265.0 million
    in development and sales-based milestone payments, as well as
    royalties on future commercial sales. For a more detailed
    description of this transaction, please read Note 18,
     Investments in Variable Interest Entities  to our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Business
    Environment   

We conduct our business primarily within the biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical industries, which are highly competitive. Many of
    our competitors are working to develop products similar to those
    we are developing or already market. We may also face increased
    competitive pressures as a result of the emergence of
    biosimilars. In the U.S., AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI are
    licensed under the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) as
    biological

38

Table of Contents   

products. In March 2010, U.S. healthcare reform legislation
    amended the PHSA to authorize the FDA to approve biological
    products, known as biosimilars or follow-on biologics, that are
    shown to be highly similar to previously approved biological
    products based upon potentially abbreviated data packages.

In addition, the recently enacted U.S. healthcare reform
    legislation contained additional provisions, including cost
    containment measures. We have encountered similar efforts to
    reform health care coverage and costs in other countries in
    which we operate. Moreover, the economic environment in Europe
    has become increasingly challenging. Many of the countries in
    which we operate are also seeking to reduce their public
    expenditures in light of the recent global economic downturn.
    The deterioration of the credit and economic conditions in
    certain countries in Europe has delayed reimbursement for our
    products and led to additional austerity measures aimed at
    reducing healthcare costs. Global efforts to reduce healthcare
    costs continue to exert pressure on product pricing and have
    negatively impacted our revenues and results of operations. For
    additional information about certain risks that could negatively
    impact our financial position or future results of operations,
    please read the  Risk Factors  section of this report.

Results
    of Operations  

Revenues   

Revenues are summarized as follows:

Product
    Revenues   

Product revenues are summarized as follows:

39

Table of Contents   

AVONEX   

Revenues from AVONEX are summarized as follows:

For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009 compared to 2008,
    the increase in U.S. AVONEX revenue was due to price
    increases offset by decreased commercial demand. Decreased
    commercial demand resulted in declines of approximately 6% and
    8% in U.S. AVONEX unit sales volume for 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, from the prior year comparative periods. Our 2010
    U.S. AVONEX revenue was also negatively impacted by
    reserves established for rebates and allowances related to the
    newly enacted healthcare reform legislation in the U.S. In
    addition, we continued to experience higher participation in our
    Access Program, which provides free product to eligible patients
    for both the 2010 and 2009 comparative periods.

For 2010 compared to 2009, the increase in rest of world AVONEX
    revenue was due to increased commercial demand offset by price
    decreases in some countries and the negative impact of foreign
    currency exchange rates resulting from the relative
    strengthening of the U.S. dollar against relevant foreign
    currencies, primarily the Euro. For 2009 compared to 2008, the
    decrease in rest of world AVONEX revenue was primarily due to
    the negative impact of foreign exchange rate changes, offset by
    increased commercial demand and price increases in some
    countries. Increased commercial demand resulted in increases of
    approximately 6% in rest of world AVONEX sales volume for 2010
    and 2009 in both periods.

AVONEX rest of world revenues for 2010 also include gains
    recognized in relation to the settlement of certain cash flow
    hedge instruments under our foreign currency hedging program
    totaling $35.0 million, compared to losses recognized of
    $39.5 million and $8.5 million for 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

We expect AVONEX to face increasing competition in the MS
    marketplace in both the U.S. and rest of world. A number of
    companies, including us, are working to develop products to
    treat MS that may compete with AVONEX now and in the future,
    including oral and other alternative formulations. In addition,
    the continued growth of TYSABRI and the commercialization of our
    other pipeline product candidates may negatively impact future
    sales of AVONEX. Increased competition may lead to reduced unit
    sales of AVONEX, as well as increasing price pressure.

TYSABRI   

We collaborate with Elan Pharma International, Ltd (Elan) an
    affiliate of Elan Corporation, plc, on the development and
    commercialization of TYSABRI. For a more detailed description of
    this collaboration, please read Note 19,  Collaborations
     to our consolidated financial statements included in this
    report.

Revenues from TYSABRI are summarized as follows:

For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009 compared to 2008,
    the increase in U.S. TYSABRI revenue was due to increased
    commercial demand. Increased commercial demand resulted in
    increases of approximately 10%

40

Table of Contents   

and 16% in U.S. TYSABRI unit sales volume for 2010 and
    2009, respectively, over the prior year comparative periods. For
    2010 compared to 2009, the increase was also due to price
    increases. This increase was offset by the impact of the sale of
    previously written-down TYSABRI inventory, which became saleable
    following the approval of our higher-yielding manufacturing
    process. As our sales price to Elan in the U.S. is set to
    effect an approximate equal sharing of the gross margin with
    Elan plus reimbursement for our cost of goods sold, the
    distribution of this specific inventory reduced our cost of
    sales, which reduced the price per unit we charged to Elan and
    reduced our revenues by $7.5 million compared to 2009. This
    inventory was fully utilized during 2010.

Net sales of TYSABRI from our collaboration partner, Elan, to
    third-party customers in the U.S. for 2010, 2009 and 2008
    totaled $593.1 million, $508.5 million and
    $421.6 million, respectively.

For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009 compared to 2008,
    the increase in rest of world TYSABRI revenue was due to
    increased commercial demand of TYSABRI in our rest of world
    markets offset by the negative impact of foreign currency
    exchange rates resulting from the relative strengthening of the
    U.S. dollar against relevant foreign currencies, primarily
    the Euro. For 2010 compared to 2009, the increase in rest of
    world TYSABRI revenue was partially offset by price decreases in
    some countries. Increased commercial demand resulted in
    increases of 23% and 49% in rest of world TYSABRI sales volume
    for 2010 and 2009, respectively, over the prior year comparative
    periods.

TYSABRI rest of world revenues for 2010 also include gains
    recognized in relation to the settlement of certain cash flow
    hedge instruments under our foreign currency hedging program
    totaling $10.7 million, compared to losses recognized of
    $10.1 million for 2009. No such losses were recognized in
    2008 as we did not designate hedges against TYSABRI rest of
    world revenues in that period.

The prescribing information for TYSABRI contains significant
    safety warnings, including:

TYSABRI increases the risk of developing progressive multifocal
    leukoencephalopathy (PML), a serious brain infection.

The risk of PML is increased in patients who have been treated
    with an immunosuppressant prior to receiving TYSABRI.

The risk of developing PML increases with longer treatment
    duration, with limited experience beyond three years.

Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome (IRIS) may occur in
    patients who developed PML and subsequently discontinued TYSABRI.

These safety warnings, and any future safety-related label
    changes, may limit the growth of TYSABRI unit sales. We continue
    to research and develop protocols and therapies that may reduce
    risk and improve outcomes of PML in patients. For example, our
    efforts have included working to identify patient or viral
    characteristics which contribute to the risk of developing PML,
    including the presence of asymptomatic JC virus infection with
    an assay to detect an immune response against the JC virus. We
    have initiated two clinical studies in the U.S., known as
    STRATIFY-1 and STRATIFY-2, that collectively, are intended to
    define the prevalence of serum JC virus antibody in patients
    with relapsing MS receiving or considering treatment with
    TYSABRI and to evaluate the potential to stratify patients into
    lower or higher risk for developing PML based on antibody
    status. Our efforts to stratify patients into lower or higher
    risk for developing PML, and other ongoing or future clinical
    trials involving TYSABRI may have a negative impact on
    prescribing behavior in at least the short term which may result
    in decreased product revenues from sales of TYSABRI.

We also expect TYSABRI to face increasing competition in the MS
    marketplace in both the U.S. and rest of world. A number of
    companies, including us, are working to develop products to
    treat MS that may compete with TYSABRI now and in the future,
    including oral and other alternative formulations. In addition,
    the commercialization of our other pipeline product candidates
    may negatively impact future sales of TYSABRI. Increased
    competition may also lead to reduced unit sales of TYSABRI, as
    well as increasing price pressure.

We have initiated the five year renewal process for
    TYSABRI s marketing authorization in the E.U. This
    marketing authorization review by E.U. regulators, in addition
    to ongoing label discussions with U.S. regulators,

41

Table of Contents   

includes assessment of the criteria for confirming PML
    diagnosis, the number of PML cases, the incidence of PML in
    TYSABRI patients, the risk factors for PML, as well as an
    overall assessment of TYSABRI s benefit-risk profile. Our
    interactions with E.U. and U.S. regulators could result in
    modifications to the respective labels or other restrictions for
    TYSABRI. Upon completion of the assessment of the TYSABRI
    renewal in the E.U. the marketing authorization is expected to
    be valid for either an unlimited period or for an additional
    five year term.

Other
    Product Revenues   

Other product revenues primarily consist of revenues derived
    from sales of FUMADERM and are summarized as follows:

Unconsolidated
    Joint Business Revenues  

We collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of RITUXAN. On October 19, 2010, we and
    Genentech amended and restated our Amended and Restated
    Collaboration Agreement dated June 19, 2003 with regard to
    the development of ocrelizumab, a humanized anti-CD20 antibody,
    and agreed to terms for the development of GA101, a
    next-generation anti-CD20 antibody. This amendment did not have
    an impact on our share of the co-promotion operating profits
    recognized for RITUXAN in 2010. For a more detailed description
    of this collaboration and additional information regarding the
    pretax co-promotion profit sharing formula for RITUXAN and its
    impact on future unconsolidated joint business revenues, please
    read Note 19,  Collaborations  to our consolidated
    financial statements included in this report.

In the fourth quarter of 2010, as part of our recent
    restructuring initiative, which is described below under the
    heading   Restructuring Charge,   we reached an
    agreement with Genentech to eliminate our RITUXAN oncology and
    rheumatology sales force, with Genentech assuming the sole
    responsibility for the U.S. sales and marketing efforts
    related to RITUXAN. We believe that centralizing the sales force
    will enhance the sales effectiveness and profitability of our
    collaboration for the sale of RITUXAN in the U.S. As a
    result of this change, we expect that the amount of
    reimbursement for selling and development expense in the
    U.S. to decrease in future periods to a negligible amount.
    For 2010, 2009, and 2008, we were reimbursed $58.3 million,
    $65.6 million and $59.7 million, respectively,
    primarily for sales and marketing activities performed in
    support of RITUXAN.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business are summarized as
    follows:

42

Table of Contents   

Biogen
    Idec s Share of Co-Promotion Profits in the
    U.S.   

The following table provides a summary of amounts comprising our
    share of co-promotion profits in the U.S.:

For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009 compared to 2008,
    the increase in U.S. RITUXAN product revenues was primarily
    due to price increases and an increase in commercial demand,
    which resulted in an increase in unit sales volume of
    approximately 2%. For 2009 compared to 2008, the increase in
    U.S. RITUXAN product revenue was primarily due to price
    increases offset by a decrease in commercial demand of
    approximately 1%.

For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009 compared to 2008,
    the decrease in collaboration costs and expenses primarily
    resulted from a decline in expenditures for the development of
    RITUXAN for use in other indications. As described below under
    the heading   Provision for Discounts and
    Allowances   Healthcare Reform  , beginning in
    2011,  a new fee will be payable by all prescription drug
    manufacturers and importers. We estimate that the fee assessed
    Genentech on qualifying sales of RITUXAN will result in a
    reduction of our share of
     pre-tax 
     co-promotion 
    profits in the U.S. of approximately $15.0 million in 2011.

Under our collaboration agreement, our current pretax
    co-promotion profit-sharing formula, which resets annually,
    provides for a 40% share of co-promotion profits if co-promotion
    operating profits exceed $50.0 million. For 2010, 2009 and
    2008, the 40% threshold was met during the first quarter.

Reimbursement
    of Selling and Development Expense in the U.S.   

As discussed in Note 19,  Collaborations  to our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report,
    Genentech incurs the majority of continuing development costs
    for RITUXAN. Expenses incurred by Genentech in the development
    of RITUXAN are not recorded as research and development expense,
    but rather reduce our share of co-promotion profits recorded as
    a component of unconsolidated joint business revenue. For 2010
    compared to 2009, the decrease in selling and development
    expenses incurred by us in the U.S. and reimbursed by
    Genentech was primarily the result of the elimination of our
    RITUXAN oncology and rheumatology sales force in the fourth
    quarter 2010. For 2009 compared to 2008, the increase in selling
    and development expenses incurred by us in the U.S. and
    reimbursed by Genentech was primarily the result of our
    increased sales and marketing activities in support of RITUXAN.

Revenue
    on Sales of RITUXAN in the Rest of World   

Revenue on sales of RITUXAN in the rest of world consists of our
    share of pretax co-promotion profits in Canada and royalty
    revenue on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada.
    For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009 compared to 2008,
    revenues on sales of RITUXAN in the rest of world continue to
    decline due to royalty expirations in certain of our rest of
    world markets. The royalty period for sales in the rest of world
    with respect to all products is 11 years from the first
    commercial sale of such product on a
     country-by-country 
    basis. Specifically, the royalty periods with respect to sales
    in France, Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom expired in
    2009. The royalty period with respect to sales in Italy expired
    in 2010. The royalty periods for substantially all of the
    remaining royalty-bearing sales of RITUXAN in the rest of the
    world will expire through 2012. As a result of these
    expirations, we expect royalty revenues derived from sales of
    RITUXAN in the rest of world to continue to decline in future
    periods. The decreases experienced during 2010 were offset by a
    payment from Genentech totaling $21.3 million representing
    a cumulative underpayment of royalties owed to us on sales of
    RITUXAN in the rest of world.

43

Table of Contents   

Other
    Revenues  

Other revenues are summarized as follows:

Royalty
    Revenues   

We receive royalties on sales by our licensees of products
    covered under patents that we own. Sales of licensed products
    could vary significantly due to competition, manufacturing
    difficulties and other factors that are not within our control.
    In addition, the expiration or invalidation of any underlying
    patents could reduce or eliminate the royalty revenues derived
    from such patents.

For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009 compared to 2008,
    the increase in royalty revenues was primarily driven by
    increased sales of ANGIOMAX (bivalirudin) licensed to The
    Medicines Company (TMC). The increase for 2009 compared to 2008
    was offset by a decline in royalties from sales of other
    licensed products and the expiration of certain contracts and
    license agreements.

Our most significant source of royalty revenue is derived from
    sales of ANGIOMAX by TMC. TMC sells ANGIOMAX in the U.S.,
    Europe, Canada, Central America, South America, Israel and
    Australia. Royalty revenues related to the sales of ANGIOMAX are
    recognized in an amount equal to the level of net sales achieved
    during a calendar year multiplied by the royalty rate in effect
    for that tier under our agreement with TMC. The royalty rate
    increases based upon which tier of total net sales are earned in
    any calendar year. The increased royalty rate is applied
    retroactively to the first dollar of net sales achieved during
    the year. This formula has the effect of increasing the amount
    of royalty revenue to be recognized in later quarters and, as a
    result, an adjustment is recorded in the period in which an
    increase in royalty rate has been achieved.

Under the terms of our agreement, TMC is obligated to pay us
    royalties earned, on a
     country-by-country 
    basis, until the later of (1) twelve years from the date of
    the first commercial sale of ANGIOMAX in such country or
    (2) the date upon which the product is no longer covered by
    a patent in such country. The annual royalty rate is reduced by
    a specified percentage in any country where the product is no
    longer covered by a patent and where sales have been reduced to
    a certain volume-based market share. TMC began selling ANGIOMAX
    in the U.S. in January 2001. The principal U.S. patent
    that covers ANGIOMAX was due to expire in March 2010 and TMC
    applied for an extension of the term of this patent. Initially,
    the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) rejected
    TMC s application because in its view the application was
    not timely filed. TMC sued the PTO in federal district court
    seeking to extend the term of the principal U.S. patent to
    December 2014. On August 3, 2010, the federal district
    court ordered the PTO to deem the application as timely filed.
    The PTO did not appeal the order, but a generic manufacturer is
    seeking the right to intervene and file an appeal. The PTO has
    granted an interim extension of the patent term until
    August 13, 2011. In the event that TMC is unsuccessful in
    obtaining a patent term extension thereafter and third parties
    sell products comparable to ANGIOMAX, we would expect a
    significant decrease in royalty revenues due to increased
    competition, which may impact sales and result in lower royalty
    tiered rates.

Corporate
    Partner Revenues   

We have also sold or exclusively licensed to third parties
    rights to certain products previously included within our
    product line. Royalty or supply agreement revenues received
    based upon those products are recorded as corporate partner
    revenue. Amounts recorded as corporate partner revenue also
    include amounts earned upon delivery of product under contract
    manufacturing agreements.

For 2010 compared to 2009, the increase in corporate partner
    revenues was primarily due to amounts earned under the terms of
    our 2006 contract manufacturing agreement with Astellas Pharma
    US, Inc. for the supply of

44

Table of Contents   

AMEVIVE. For 2009 compared to 2008, the decrease in corporate
    partner revenues was primarily due to milestone and royalty
    payments received in 2008 totaling $7.0 million related to
    ZEVALIN.

Provisions
    for Discounts and Allowances  

Revenues from product sales are recorded net of applicable
    allowances for trade term discounts, wholesaler incentives,
    Medicaid rebates, Veterans Administration (VA) and Public Health
    Service (PHS) discounts, managed care rebates, product returns,
    and other applicable allowances. Reserves established for these
    discounts and allowances are classified as reductions of
    accounts receivable (if the amount is payable to our customer)
    or a liability (if the amount is payable to a party other than
    our customer). Reserves for discounts, contractual adjustments
    and returns that reduced gross product revenues are summarized
    as follows:

Discount reserves include trade term discounts and wholesaler
    incentives. For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009
    compared to 2008, the increase in discounts was primarily driven
    by increases in trade term discounts and wholesaler incentives
    as a result of price increases and increased sales.

Contractual adjustment reserves relate to Medicaid and managed
    care rebates, VA and PHS discounts and other applicable
    allowances. For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009
    compared to 2008, the increase in contractual adjustments was
    due to the impact of higher reserves for managed care and
    Medicaid and VA programs primarily associated with price
    increases in the U.S. For 2010 compared to 2009, the increase in
    contractual adjustments was also due to the impact of higher
    contractual rebates and discounts resulting from
    U.S. healthcare reform legislation passed in March 2010, as
    further discussed below.

Product return reserves are established for returns made by
    wholesalers. In accordance with contractual terms, wholesalers
    are permitted to return product for reasons such as damaged or
    expired product. The majority of wholesaler returns are due to
    product expiration. We also accept returns from our patients for
    various reasons. Reserves for product returns are recorded in
    the period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a
    reduction to product sales. For 2010 compared to 2009, as well
    as for 2009 compared to 2008, return reserves remained
    relatively unchanged.

Healthcare
    Reform   

In 2010, healthcare reform legislation was enacted in the
    U.S. This legislation contains several provisions that
    affect our business. Although many provisions of the new
    legislation do not take effect immediately, several provisions
    became effective in 2010. These include (1) an increase in
    the minimum Medicaid rebate to states participating in the
    Medicaid program from 15.1% to 23.1% on our branded prescription
    drugs; (2) the extension of the Medicaid rebate to Managed
    Care Organizations that dispense drugs to Medicaid
    beneficiaries; and (3) the expansion of the 340B PHS drug
    pricing program, which provides outpatient drugs at reduced
    rates, to include additional hospitals, clinics, and healthcare
    centers.

Beginning in 2011, the new law also requires drug manufacturers
    to provide a 50% discount to Medicare beneficiaries whose
    prescription drug costs cause them to be subject to the Medicare
    Part D coverage gap (i.e., the  donut hole ).
    Also, in 2011, a new fee will be payable by all branded
    prescription drug manufacturers and importers. This fee will be
    calculated based upon each organization s percentage share
    of total branded prescription

45

Table of Contents   

drug sales to qualifying U.S. government programs (such as
    Medicare, Medicaid and VA and PHS discount programs). As defined
    by the Act,  branded prescription drug sales  exclude
    the sales of any drug or biologic for which an orphan drug tax
    credit was allowed and was not subsequently approved for a
    non-orphan indication. As AVONEX has no other labeled
    indications, other than that for which it received its orphan
    designation, we believe that AVONEX sales are considered exempt
    from the fee. We estimate that the fee assessed to Genentech on
    qualifying sales of RITUXAN will result in a reduction of our
    share of pre-tax co-promotion profits in the U.S. of
    approximately $15.0 million in 2011. We will reflect our
    share of the fee assessed to Elan on qualifying sales of TYSABRI
    as selling, general and administrative expense, which we do not
    expect to be significant based on expected sales for qualifying
    U.S. government programs.

This new legislation contains a number of provisions that affect
    existing government programs and has required the creation of
    new programs, policies and processes, many of which remain under
    development and have not been fully implemented. For example, we
    do not yet fully know the extent of additional entities eligible
    to participate under the 340B program or when and how discounts
    will be provided to these entities. In addition, in November
    2010, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)
    amended and then withdrew current regulations governing
    calculation of Average Manufacture Price; however, no
    replacement regulations have been proposed. Accordingly, our
    discounts and allowances are based on several assumptions about
    the implementation of this legislation. Actual results may
    differ from our estimates.

In addition, we anticipate that many countries outside the
    U.S. will continue to implement austerity measures
    including efforts aimed at reducing healthcare costs as these
    countries attempt to manage increasing healthcare expenditures,
    especially in light of the global economic downturn and the
    deterioration of the credit and economic conditions in certain
    countries in Europe. For example, certain governments of
    countries in which we operate have already implemented or may
    implement measures to reduce or control healthcare costs that,
    among other things, include imposed price reductions,
    suspensions on pricing increases on pharmaceuticals, increased
    mandatory discounts and rebates or seek recoveries of past price
    increases. Certain measures already implemented have negatively
    impacted our revenues. Our revenues and results of operations
    will be further negatively impacted if these, similar or more
    extensive measures continue to be implemented.

Cost and
    Expenses  

A summary of total cost and expenses is as follows:

46

Table of Contents   

Cost
    of Sales, Excluding Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets
    (Cost of Sales)   

For 2010 compared to 2009, the increase in cost of sales was
    primarily due to higher unit sales volume. The increase for the
    comparative period was also driven by a $5.7 million
    increase in costs associated with contract manufacturing
    activity for the supply of AMEVIVE as well as $6.7 million
    of period expense incurred related to the shutdown for capital
    upgrades of our manufacturing facility in Research Triangle
    Park, North Carolina. This comparative increase was offset by
    the sale of previously written-down TYSABRI inventory, which
    became saleable following approval of our new higher-yielding
    manufacturing process. The distribution of this inventory, which
    was fully utilized during 2010, reduced our cost of sales by
    $11.4 million compared to 2009. In addition, the sale of
    inventory produced under our new high-titer production process
    reduced our cost of sales by $8.4 million compared to 2009.

For 2009 compared to 2008, the decrease in cost of sales was
    primarily due to a $12.9 million decrease in write-downs
    from unmarketable inventory, a $10.9 million decrease in
    production costs due to the implementation of a new high-titer
    production process which produces higher yields of TYSABRI and
    an $8.8 million decrease in royalty payments on sales of
    licensed product due mainly to the expiration of certain
    contracts and license agreements. These decreases were offset by
    a $17.0 million increase in costs associated with higher
    TYSABRI unit sales volume. In addition, during 2008 we also
    incurred a $4.3 million period expense related to the
    shutdown of our manufacturing facility in Research Triangle
    Park, North Carolina for the implementation of the high-titer
    production process upgrades.

We expect an increase in total cost of sales for 2011, as a
    result of an increase in expected contract manufacturing
    activity and increased production costs.

Write-downs
    from Unmarketable Inventory   

Our products are subject to strict quality control and
    monitoring which we perform throughout the manufacturing
    process. Periodically, certain batches or units of product may
    no longer meet quality specifications or may expire. The expiry
    associated with our inventory is generally between 6 months
    and 5 years, depending on the product. Obsolescence due to
    expiration has historically been insignificant.

Amounts written down related to unmarketable inventory are
    charged to cost of sales, and totaled $11.8 million,
    $16.9 million and $29.8 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Research
    and Development  

For 2010 compared to 2009, research and development expense
    decreased by $34.5 million. Our research and development
    spend in 2010 included a $26.4 million upfront payment made
    to Knopp under a license agreement, increased clinical activity
    for our daclizumab, PEGylated interferon beta-1a, Neublastin,
    Factor VIII and Factor IX programs, and efforts to research and
    develop protocols that may reduce risk and improve outcomes of
    PML in patients treated with TYSABRI. In addition, our costs for
    the Factor VIII and Factor IX programs increased in 2010
    following the restructuring of our collaboration agreement with
    Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, whereby we assumed full development
    and manufacturing responsibilities for these programs. These
    increases were offset by a reduction in spending in certain
    deprioritized programs.

47

Table of Contents   

For 2009 compared to 2008, research and development expenses
    increased by $211.0 million, driven primarily by the
    $110.0 million upfront payment made to Acorda, as well as a
    net increase of $100.2 million related to the ramp up of
    clinical trial activity for certain development stage product
    candidates including lixivaptan, BG-12, humanized anti-CD20 and
    ADENTRI. In addition, in 2009, we also initiated registrational
    trials in our PEGylated interferon program. The aforementioned
    increases were offset by a reduction of spending across several
    programs including baminercept in RA, lumiliximab and
    volociximab.

As part of our recent restructuring initiative, which is
    described below under the heading   Restructuring
    Charge ,  we are in the process of reducing our overall
    headcount by approximately 13% and have terminated or are in the
    process of discontinuing certain research and development
    programs, including substantially all of our cardiovascular and
    oncology programs and select programs in neurology and
    immunology. Our workforce reduction efforts impact all sales,
    research and development and administrative functions.

We expect total research and development expense in 2011 to be
    between 22% and 24% of total revenue.

Milestone
    and Upfront Payments   

Milestone and upfront payments to our collaboration partners,
    included within research and development expense, totaled
    $68.9 million, $151.5 million and $47.6 million
    for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The change for each of
    the comparative periods was primarily the result of the
    $110.0 million upfront payment made to Acorda in 2009. The
    timing of future upfront fees and milestone payments may cause
    variability in future research and development expense.

Selling,
    General and Administrative  

Selling, general and administrative expenses are primarily
    comprised of compensation and benefits associated with sales and
    marketing, finance, legal and other administrative personnel,
    outside marketing and legal expenses and other general and
    administrative costs.

For 2010 compared to 2009, selling, general and administrative
    expenses increased primarily due to increased sales and
    marketing activities in support of AVONEX and TYSABRI and
    increased grant and sponsorship activity. The increase for the
    comparative periods also includes an incremental charge of
    approximately $18.6 million recognized in 2010 related to
    the modification of equity based compensation in accordance with
    the transition agreement entered into with James C. Mullen, who
    retired as our President and Chief Executive Officer on
    June 8, 2010.

For 2009 compared to 2008, the decrease in selling, general and
    administrative expenses was primarily driven by the positive
    impact of foreign currency exchange rates and a reduction of
    expenses reimbursed to Elan for their marketing of TYSABRI for
    Crohn s disease in the U.S. These decreases were
    offset by costs incurred associated with our geographic
    expansion into new markets.

As part of our recent restructuring initiative, which is
    described below under the heading   Restructuring
    Charge,   we are in the process of reducing our overall
    headcount by approximately 13%. This workforce reduction impacts
    all sales, research and development and administrative functions.

We expect total selling, general and administrative expense in
    2011 to be between 20% and 21% of total revenue.

48

Table of Contents   

Collaboration
    Profit Sharing  

For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009 compared to 2008,
    the increases in collaboration profit sharing expense were due
    to the continued increase in TYSABRI rest of world sales
    resulting in higher rest of world net operating profits to be
    shared with Elan and resulting in growth in the third-party
    royalties Elan paid on behalf of the collaboration. For 2010,
    2009 and 2008, our collaboration profit sharing expense included
    $45.5 million, $40.0 million and $28.4 million
    related to the reimbursement of third-party royalty payments
    made by Elan. For a more detailed description of this
    collaboration, please read Note 19,  Collaborations
     to our consolidated financial statements included in this
    report.

Amortization
    of Acquired Intangible Assets  

Our most significant intangible asset is the core technology
    related to our AVONEX product. Our amortization policy reflects
    our belief that the economic benefit of our core technology is
    consumed as revenue is generated from our AVONEX product. We
    refer to this amortization methodology as the economic
    consumption model, which involves calculating a ratio of actual
    current period sales to total anticipated sales for the life of
    the product and applying this ratio to the carrying amount of
    the intangible asset. An analysis of the anticipated lifetime
    revenue of AVONEX is performed at least annually during our long
    range planning cycle, and this analysis serves as the basis for
    the calculation of our economic consumption amortization model.
    Although we believe this process has allowed us to reliably
    determine the best estimate of the pattern in which we will
    consume the economic benefits of our core technology intangible
    asset, the model could result in deferring amortization charges
    to future periods in certain instances, due to continued sales
    of the product at a nominal level after patent expiration or
    otherwise. In order to ensure that amortization charges are not
    unreasonably deferred to future periods, we compare the amount
    of amortization determined under the economic consumption model
    against the minimum amount of amortization recalculated each
    year under the straight-line method and record the higher amount.

We completed our most recent long range planning cycle in the
    third quarter of 2010. This analysis is based upon certain
    assumptions that we evaluate on a periodic basis, such as the
    anticipated product sales of AVONEX and expected impact of
    competitor products and our own pipeline product candidates, as
    well as the issuance of new patents or the extension of existing
    patents. Based upon this analysis, we have continued to amortize
    this asset on the economic consumption model for the third and
    fourth quarters of 2010, and expect to apply the same model for
    the next two quarters. In addition, since we do not currently
    expect a significant change in the expected lifetime revenue of
    AVONEX, amortization expected to be recorded in relation to our
    core intangible asset for the first two quarters of 2011 is
    anticipated to be comparable to the amounts recorded during the
    third and fourth quarters of 2010. Amortization of our core
    intangible asset related to AVONEX totaled $162.4 million,
    $229.3 million and $271.7  million in 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.

For 2009 compared to 2008, amortization recorded for the third
    and fourth quarters of 2009 decreased significantly from their
    respective prior year comparative periods. This decrease was
    driven by the issuance of the AVONEX  755 Patent in
    September 2009. The issuance of this patent, expiring in
    September 2026, resulted in an increase in the total
    expected lifetime revenue of AVONEX and an extension of the
    assumed remaining life of our core intangible asset.

Based upon our most recent analysis, amortization for acquired
    intangible assets is expected to be in the range of
    approximately $170.0 million to $210.0 million
    annually through 2015.

49

Table of Contents   

We monitor events and expectations on product performance. If
    there are any indications that the assumptions underlying our
    most recent analysis would be different than those utilized
    within our current estimates, our analysis would be updated and
    may result in a significant change in the anticipated lifetime
    revenue of AVONEX determined during our most recent annual
    review. For example, the occurrence of an adverse event, such as
    the invalidation of our AVONEX  755 Patent issued in
    September 2009, could substantially increase the amount of
    amortization expense associated with our acquired intangible
    assets as compared to previous periods or our current
    expectations, which may result in a significant negative impact
    on our future results of operations.

Restructuring
    Charge  

On November 3, 2010, we announced a number of strategic,
    operational and organizational initiatives designed to provide a
    framework for the future growth of our business, which are
    summarized as follows:

We intend to focus our business on neurology and leverage our
    strengths in biologics research, development and manufacturing
    to pursue select biological therapies where there is a
    significant unmet need and where the drug candidate has the
    potential to be highly differentiated. Accordingly, during the
    fourth quarter of 2010, we began to reallocate resources within
    our research and development organization to maximize our
    investment in our highest-potential programs. As a result, we
    have terminated or are in the process of discontinuing certain
    research and development programs, including substantially all
    of our oncology programs (which we are looking to spin out or
    out-license), our cardiovascular programs and select neurology
    and immunology programs. In addition, we have substantially
    reduced our small molecule discovery activities in favor of
    outsourcing these efforts.

We are in the process of vacating the San Diego, California
    facility and consolidating our Massachusetts facilities.

We eliminated our RITUXAN oncology and rheumatology sales force
    and Genentech, Inc., a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group,
    has assumed sole responsibility for the U.S. sales and
    marketing efforts related to RITUXAN.

We are in the process of completing a 13% reduction in our
    workforce and realigning our overall structure to become a more
    efficient and cost-effective organization. The workforce
    reduction spans our sales, research and development and
    administrative functions.

As a result of these initiatives, we expect to realize annual
    savings of approximately $300.0 million. The substantial
    majority of the savings will be realized within research and
    development and selling, general and administrative expense and
    are expected to be fully realized beginning in the latter half
    of 2011. These expected savings may be offset to some degree by
    costs associated with initiatives to grow our business.

We expect to incur total restructuring charges of approximately
    $110.0 million, comprised of $90.0 million for
    workforce reduction and $20.0 million for facility
    consolidation.

We recognized $75.2 million of these charges within our
    consolidated statement of income during 2010, which are
    summarized as follows:

50

Table of Contents   

We expect that our restructuring efforts will be substantially
    completed, and that substantially all of the remaining
    restructuring charges will be incurred by the end of 2011.

Costs associated with our workforce reduction primarily relate
    to employee severance and benefits. Facility consolidation costs
    are primarily comprised of charges associated with the closing
    of facilities, related lease obligations and additional
    depreciation recognized when the expected useful lives of
    certain assets have been shortened due to  the consolidation and
    closing of related facilities and the discontinuation of certain
    research and development programs.

The following table summarizes the charges and spending related
    to our restructuring efforts during 2010:

We expect that substantially all remaining payments will be
    made, by the end of 2011.

Acquired
    In Process Research and Development (IPR D)  

In August 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Knopp
    for the development, manufacture and commercialization of
    dexpramipexole, an orally administered small molecule in
    clinical development for the treatment of ALS. As we determined
    that we are the primary beneficiary of Knopp, we consolidate the
    results of Knopp and recorded an IPR D charge of
    approximately $205.0 million upon initial consolidation. We
    have attributed approximately $145.0 million of the total
    IPR D charge to the noncontrolling interest, representing
    the noncontrolling interest s ownership interest in the
    equity of Knopp. For a more detailed description of this
    transaction, please read Note 18,  Investments in
    Variable Interest Entities  to our consolidated financial
    statements included in this report.

In connection with our acquisition of Biogen Idec Hemophilia
    Inc., formerly Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Syntonix), in
    January 2007, we agreed to make additional future consideration
    payments based upon the achievement of certain milestone events.
    One of these milestones was achieved when, in January 2010, we
    initiated patient enrollment in a registrational trial of Factor
    IX in hemophilia B. As a result of the achievement of this we
    paid approximately $40.0 million to the former shareholders
    of Syntonix.

In 2008, we recorded an IPR D charge of $25.0 million
    related to a HSP90-related milestone payment made to the former
    shareholders of Conforma Therapeutics, Inc. (Conforma) pursuant
    to the terms of our acquisition of Conforma in 2006.

51

Table of Contents   

Other
    Income (Expense), Net  

Components of other income (expense), net, are summarized as
    follows:

Interest
    Income   

For 2010 compared to 2009, as well as for 2009 compared to 2008,
    interest income decreased primarily due to lower yields on cash,
    cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The decrease for
    2010 compared to 2009, was also due to lower average cash
    balances. For 2009 compared to 2008, these decreases were offset
    by higher average cash balances.

Interest
    Expense   

For 2010 compared to 2009, interest expense remained relatively
    unchanged. For 2009 compared to 2008, interest expense decreased
    primarily due to decreased average debt balances. In addition,
    approximately $5.7 million and $5.4 million was recorded in
    2010 and 2009, respectively, as a reduction of interest expense
    due to the amortization of the deferred gain associated with the
    termination of an interest rate swap in December 2008.

Capitalized
    Interest Costs  

For 2010, 2009, and 2008, we capitalized interest costs related
    to construction in progress totaling approximately
    $28.6 million, $28.5 million and $23.2 million,
    respectively, which reduced our interest expense by the same
    amount. Capitalized interest costs are primarily related to the
    development of our large-scale biologic manufacturing facility
    in Hiller d, Denmark.

We plan to stop further validation on this facility following
    completion of facility s operational qualification
    activities in the first half of 2011 as we continue to evaluate
    our current manufacturing utilization strategy. Recent
    manufacturing improvements have resulted in favorable production
    yields on TYSABRI, that along with slower than expected TYSABRI
    growth, have reduced our expected capacity requirements. As a
    result, we have decided to delay the start of manufacturing
    activities at this site until additional capacity is required by
    the business. Accordingly, we expect to cease capitalizing
    interest in relation to this project at that time.

Impairment
    on Investments   

In 2010, we recognized $21.3 million in charges for the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment of our publicly held strategic investments,
    investments in venture capital funds and investments in
    privately held companies. The increase over amounts recognized
    in 2009 was primarily the result of AVEO Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
    one of our strategic investments, executing an equity offering
    at a price below our cost basis during the first quarter of 2010.

In 2009, we recognized impairment losses of $7.0 million on
    our publicly-held strategic investments and non-marketable
    securities and an additional $3.6 million in charges for
    the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on our marketable debt securities primarily related
    to mortgage and asset-backed securities.

52

Table of Contents   

In 2008, we recognized impairment losses of $18.6 million
    on our publicly-held strategic investments and
     non-marketable 
    securities and an additional $41.7 million in impairment on
    our marketable debt securities primarily related to mortgage and
    asset-backed and corporate securities.

We may incur additional impairment charges on these investments
    in the future.

Income
    Tax Provision  

Our effective tax rate fluctuates from year to year due to the
    nature of our global operations. The factors that most
    significantly impact our effective tax rate include variability
    in the allocation of our taxable earnings between multiple
    jurisdictions, changes in tax laws, acquisitions and licensing
    transactions.

For 2010 compared to 2009, our effective tax rate was negatively
    impacted due to the attribution to noncontrolling interest of
    $145.0 million of the IPR D charge related to our
    license agreement with Knopp Neurosciences, Inc. As such, the
    attributed amount will not generate a tax deduction, causing our
    tax rate to be unfavorably impacted by 2.8%. The impact of the
    Knopp transaction was partially offset by a higher percentage of
    our profits being earned in lower rate international
    jurisdictions in 2010. This change in the location of our
    relative profits was caused by the growth of our international
    operations and lower 2010 domestic earnings as a proportion of
    total consolidated earnings. For a more detailed description of
    our transaction with Knopp, please read Note 18,
     Investments in Variable Interest Entities  to our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report.

During 2010, we also experienced a favorable impact on our
    effective tax rates due to a statutory increase in the
    U.S. manufacturers  tax deduction and an increase in
    expenditures eligible for our orphan drug credit. In December
    2010, an extension of the research and development tax credit
    was enacted for years 2010 and 2011. Upon enactment, we
    recognized an income tax benefit of $14.9 million for
    qualifying expenditures from the full year 2010. In addition,
    our 2009 effective tax rate was increased by 2.1% as a result of
    the $110.0 million upfront payment incurred in connection
    with the collaboration and license agreement entered into with
    Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. (Acorda) in the second quarter of
    2009. Our effective tax rate for 2009 was also favorably
    impacted by 2.3% for changes in tax law which became effective
    during the first quarter of 2009 in certain state jurisdictions
    in which we operate and the favorable resolution of certain
    federal, state and foreign tax audits. The resolution of these
    tax audits resulted in a reduction of our reserves for several
    uncertain tax positions, which had a favorable impact of 2.1% on
    our 2009 effective tax rate.

Our effective tax rate in 2009 was lower than in 2008 due to the
    net effect of changes in tax laws and the resolution of certain
    tax audits discussed above, as well as a higher percentage of
    our foreign earnings being subject to U.S. income taxation
    in 2008 partially offset by the effect of the Acorda licensing
    transaction. The effect of the allocation of earnings was
    partially offset by certain tax credits and deferred tax assets
    realized as a result of our 2008 domestic reorganization.

Our 2008 domestic and foreign reorganizations to our corporate
    structure involved the movement of certain personnel, operations
    and processes amongst our affiliates. Our effective tax rate
    will continue to be dependent upon the allocation of our profits
    amongst jurisdictions and the percentage of our foreign earnings
    which are subject to taxation in the U.S. We expect our
    2011 effective tax rate to be between 26% and 28%.

53

Table of Contents   

Noncontrolling
    Interest  

For 2010 compared to 2009, net income attributable to
    noncontrolling interests decreased by $113.6 million. This
    decrease was primarily the result of the attribution of
    $145.0 million of the $205.0 million IPR D charge
    recognized upon consolidation of the Knopp variable interest
    entity to the noncontrolling interest. This decrease was
    partially offset by the $25.0 million payment made to
    Cardiokine upon the termination of our license agreement and an
    attribution of earnings from our foreign joint ventures.

For 2009 compared to 2008, net income (loss) attributable to
    noncontrolling interests primarily consisted of the attribution
    of earnings from our foreign joint ventures, which were
    relatively consistent in each year.

Market
    Risk  

We conduct business globally. As a result, our international
    operations are subject to certain opportunities and risks which
    may affect our results of operations, including volatility in
    foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in
    the foreign market in which we operate.

Foreign
    Currency Exchange Risk   

Our results of operations are subject to foreign currency
    exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our
    operations. While the financial results of our global activities
    are reported in U.S. dollars, the functional currency for
    most of our foreign subsidiaries is their local currency.
    Fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates of the
    countries in which we do business will affect our operating
    results, often in ways that are difficult to predict. For
    example, when the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign
    currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective
    foreign currencies decreases, conversely, when the
    U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the
    relative amount of such sales in U.S. dollars increases.

Our net income may also fluctuate due to the impact of our
    foreign currency hedging program. Our foreign currency
    management program is designed to mitigate, over time, a portion
    of the impact on volatility in exchange rate changes on net
    income and earnings per share. We use foreign currency forward
    contracts to manage foreign currency risk with the majority of
    our forward contracts used to hedge certain forecasted revenue
    transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currency
    gains or losses arising from our operations are recognized in
    the period in which we incur those gains or losses.

Pricing
    Pressure   

We operate in certain countries where the economic conditions
    continue to present significant challenges. Many countries are
    reducing their public expenditures in light of the global
    economic downturn and the deterioration of the credit and
    economic conditions in certain countries in Europe. As a result,
    we expect to see continued efforts to reduce healthcare costs,
    particularly in certain of the international markets in which we
    operate. The implementation of pricing actions varies by country
    and certain measures already implemented, which include among
    other things, mandatory price reductions and suspensions on
    pricing increases on pharmaceuticals, have negatively impacted
    our revenues. In addition, certain countries set prices by
    reference to the prices in other countries where our products
    are marketed. Thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a
    particular country may also impair our ability to obtain
    acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets. We
    expect that our revenues and results of operations will be
    further negatively impacted if these, similar or more extensive
    measures are, or continue to be, implemented in other countries
    in which we operate.

54

Table of Contents   

Credit
    Risk   

We are subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable
    related to our product sales. The majority of our accounts
    receivable arise from product sales in the U.S. and Europe
    with concentrations of credit risk generally limited due to the
    wide variety of customers and markets using our products, as
    well as their dispersion across many different geographic areas.
    Our accounts receivable are primarily due from wholesale
    distributors, large pharmaceutical companies and public
    hospitals. We monitor the financial performance and credit
    worthiness of our large customers so that we can properly assess
    and respond to changes in their credit profile. We operate in
    certain countries where the economic conditions continue to
    present significant challenges. We continue to monitor these
    conditions, including the volatility associated with
    international economies and associated impacts on the relevant
    financial markets and our business. Our historical write-offs of
    accounts receivable have not been significant.

Within the European Union, our product sales in Italy, Spain and
    Portugal continue to be subject to significant payment delays
    due to government funding and reimbursement practices. The
    credit and economic conditions within these countries have
    continued to deteriorate throughout 2010. These conditions have
    resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the
    average length of time that it takes to collect on our accounts
    receivable outstanding in these countries. As of
    December 31, 2010, our accounts receivable balances in
    Italy, Spain and Portugal totaled $118.0 million,
    $100.6 million and $23.3 million, respectively,
    totaling approximately $241.9 million. Approximately
    $45.0 million of this amount was outstanding for greater
    than one year. As of December 31, 2010, we had
    $50.1 million of receivables that are expected to be
    collected beyond one year, which are included as a component of
    investments and other assets within our consolidated balance
    sheet.

Our concentrations of credit risk related to our accounts
    receivable from product sales in Greece to date have been
    limited as our receivables within this market are due from our
    wholesale distributor, for which related accounts receivable
    balances as of December 31, 2010, remain current and
    substantially in compliance with their contractual due dates. As
    of December 31, 2010 our accounts receivable balances due
    from our distributor in Greece totaled $3.9 million.
    However, the majority of our sales by our distributor are to
    government funded hospitals and as a result our distributor
    maintains significant outstanding receivables with the
    government of Greece. Furthermore, the government of Greece has
    recently required financial support from both the European Union
    and the International Monetary Fund to avoid defaulting on its
    debt. In the event that Greece defaults on its debt, and could
    not pay our distributor, we may be unable to collect some or all
    of our remaining amounts due from the distributor. The
    government of Greece may also require pharmaceutical creditors
    to accept mandatory, retroactive, price deductions in settlement
    of outstanding receivables and we could be required to repay our
    distributor a portion of the amounts they have previously
    remitted to us. The potential impact resulting from such
    mandatory actions remains uncertain, although delays or changes
    in the availability of government funding may adversely impact
    the operations of our distributor. To date, we have not been
    required to repay such amounts to our distributor or take a
    discount in settlement of any outstanding receivables and do not
    intend to do so.

We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts was adequate
    as of December 31, 2010; however, if significant changes
    occur in the availability of government funding or the
    reimbursement practices of these or other governments, we may
    not be able to collect on amounts due to us from customers in
    such countries and our results of operations could be adversely
    affected.

55

Table of Contents   

Financial
    Condition and Liquidity  

Our financial condition is summarized as follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2010, certain significant
    cash flows were as follows:

$2,077.6 million used for share repurchases;

$680.3 million in net proceeds received on sales and
    maturities of marketable securities;

$352.0 million in total payments for domestic income taxes;

$183.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of stock for
    share-based compensation arrangements;

$173.1 million used for purchases of property, plant and
    equipment;

$127.0 million in proceeds, net of transaction costs,
    received from sale of the San Diego facility, which has
    been accounted for as a financing arrangement;

$26.4 million in upfront payments to Knopp under our
    license agreement dated August 17, 2010 and a
    $60.0 million investment in the equity of Knopp;

$40.0 million payment made to the former shareholders of
    Syntonix recognized as IPR D expense;

$32.5 million payment made for the acquisition of Panima;

$30.0 million milestone payment made to Abbott
    Biotherapeutics Corp (formerly Facet Biotech Corporation)
    recognized as research and development expense; and

$25.0 million termination payment made to Cardiokine
    recognized as a distribution to a noncontrolling interest.

For the year ended December 31, 2009, certain significant
    cash flows were as follows:

$696.3 million in total payments for domestic income taxes;

$229.1 million used for net purchases of marketable
    securities;

$165.6 million used for purchases of property, plant and
    equipment.

$110.0 million upfront payment made to Acorda on
    July 1, 2009;

$751.2 million used for share repurchases; and

$47.8 million in proceeds from the issuance of stock for
    share-based compensation arrangements.

56

Table of Contents   

We have historically financed our operating and capital
    expenditures primarily through positive cash flows earned
    through our operations. We expect to continue funding our
    current and planned operating requirements principally through
    our cash flows from operations, as well as our existing cash
    resources. We believe that existing funds, when combined with
    cash generated from operations and our access to additional
    financing resources, if needed, are sufficient to satisfy our
    operating, working capital, strategic alliance, milestone
    payment, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for
    the foreseeable future. In addition, we may choose to
    opportunistically return cash to shareholders and pursue other
    business initiatives, including acquisition and licensing
    activities. We may, from time to time, also seek additional
    funding through a combination of new collaborative agreements,
    strategic alliances and additional equity and debt financings or
    from other sources should we identify a significant new
    opportunity.

We consider the unrepatriated cumulative earnings of certain of
    our foreign subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely outside the
    U.S. Of the total cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities at December 31, 2010, approximately
    $0.9 billion was generated from operations in foreign tax
    jurisdictions and is intended for use in our foreign operations.
    In managing our
     day-to-day 
    liquidity in the U.S., we do not rely on the unrepatriated
    earnings as a source of funds and we have not provided for
    U.S. federal or state income taxes on these undistributed
    foreign earnings.

For additional information related to certain risks that could
    negatively impact our financial position or future results of
    operations, please read the   Risk Factors   and
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk   sections of this report.

Share
    Repurchase Programs   

In April 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase
    of up to $1.5 billion of our common stock, with the
    objective of reducing shares outstanding and returning excess
    cash to shareholders. This repurchase authorization was
    completed during the third quarter of 2010. During 2010, we
    repurchased approximately 29.8 million shares of our common
    stock under this authorization. All shares repurchased under
    this program were retired.

In October 2009, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock with
    the objective of reducing shares outstanding and returning
    excess cash to shareholders. This repurchase program was
    completed during the first quarter of 2010. During the first
    quarter of 2010, approximately 10.5 million shares of our
    common stock were repurchased for approximately
    $577.6 million under this authorization. During 2009,
    approximately 8.8 million shares of our common stock were
    repurchased for approximately $422.4 million under this
    authorization. All shares repurchased under this program were
    retired.

In October 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common
    stock. This repurchase program was completed during the fourth
    quarter of 2009. During 2009, approximately 7.2 million
    shares of our common stock were repurchased for approximately
    $328.8 million under this authorization. During 2008,
    approximately 12.8 million shares of our common stock were
    repurchased for approximately $738.9 million under this
    authorization. We used the 2006 share repurchase program
    principally for share stabilization.

As a result of the approximately 40.3 million shares
    repurchased during 2010, common shares outstanding have
    decreased by approximately 15% since December 31, 2009.

Cash,
    Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities   

Until required for another use in our business, we invest our
    cash reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit,
    commercial paper, corporate notes, U.S. and foreign
    government instruments and other interest bearing marketable
    debt instruments in accordance with our investment policy. We
    mitigate credit risk in our cash reserves and marketable
    securities by maintaining a well diversified portfolio that
    limits the amount of investment exposure as to institution,
    maturity, and investment type. The value of our investments,
    however, may be adversely affected by increases in interest
    rates, downgrades in the credit rating of the corporate bonds
    included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial
    markets that reduces the liquidity of securities included in our
    portfolio, and by other factors which may result in declines in
    the value of the investments. Each of these events may cause us
    to

57

Table of Contents   

record charges to reduce the carrying value of our investment
    portfolio if the declines are
     other-than-temporary 
    or sell investments for less than our acquisition cost which
    could adversely impact our financial position and our overall
    liquidity. For a summary of the fair value and valuation methods
    of our marketable securities please read Note 7,  Fair
    Value Measurements  to our consolidated financial statements
    included in this report.

The decrease in cash and marketable securities from
    December 31, 2009, was primarily due to the execution of
    our share repurchases programs, tax payments, purchases of
    property, plant and equipment, the $32.5 million paid upon
    the acquisition of Panima, and the $86.4 million in
    payments made to Knopp under our recent license and stock
    purchase agreements, along with other milestone payments. These
    uses of cash were offset by cash generated from operations, net
    proceeds received from sales and maturities of marketable
    securities, net proceeds recorded from the sale of the San Diego
    facility and proceeds from the issuance of stock under our
    share-based compensation arrangements.

Borrowings   

We have a $360.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit
    facility, which we may choose to use for future working capital
    and general corporate purposes. The terms of this revolving
    credit facility include various covenants, including financial
    covenants that require us to not exceed a maximum leverage ratio
    and, under certain circumstances, an interest coverage ratio.
    This facility terminates in June 2012. No borrowings have been
    made under this credit facility and as of December 31, 2010
    and 2009 we were in compliance with all applicable covenants.

In connection with our 2006 distribution agreement with
    Fumedica, we issued notes totaling 61.4 million Swiss
    Francs which were payable to Fumedica in varying amounts from
    June 2008 through June 2018. In June 2010, we repaid
    12.0 million Swiss Francs ($10.3 million) of the
    outstanding amount. As of December 30, 2010, our remaining
    note payable to Fumedica has a present value of
    20.7 million Swiss Francs ($22.0 million) and remains
    payable in a series of payments through June 2018. The notes are
    non-interest bearing, have been discounted for financial
    statement presentation purposes, and are being accreted at an
    annual rate of 5.75%.

As described in Note 10  Property, Plant  
    Equipment,  on October 1, 2010, we sold the
    San Diego facility and agreed to lease back the facility
    for a period of 15 months. Because we do not qualify for
    immediate sales treatment due to our continuing involvement with
    the facility, we have accounted for these transactions as a
    financing arrangement and recorded an obligation of
    $127.0 million on that date reflecting cash proceeds
    received, net of transaction costs. As of December 31,
    2010, our remaining obligation was $125.9 million, which is
    reflected as a component of current portion of notes payable,
    line of credit and other financing arrangements within our
    consolidated balance sheet.

There have been no other significant changes in our borrowings
    since December 31, 2009. For a summary of the fair and
    carrying value of our outstanding borrowings as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, please read Note 7,
     Fair Value Measurements  to our consolidated financial
    statements included in this report.

Working
    Capital   

We define working capital as current assets less current
    liabilities. The decrease in working capital from
    December 31, 2009, primarily reflects the overall increase
    in total current liabilities by $335.2 million.

The increase in total current liabilities reflects increases in
    accounts payable and accrued expenses offset by the June 2010
    repayment of certain Fumedica notes payable as described above
    under Borrowings. The increase in accrued expenses is inclusive
    of an increase in the current portion of our Medicaid and VA
    accruals and accruals related to the restructuring activities we
    under took in the fourth quarter of 2010 and higher employee
    compensation accruals.

58

Table of Contents   

Cash
    Flows   

Our net cash flows are summarized as follows:

Operating
    Activities  

Cash flows from operating activities represent the cash receipts
    and disbursements related to all of our activities other than
    investing and financing activities. Cash provided by operating
    activities was primarily driven by our earnings and changes in
    working capital. We expect cash provided from operating
    activities will continue to be our primary source of funds to
    finance operating needs and capital expenditures for the
    foreseeable future.

Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting our net income for:

Non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization,
    impairment charges and share-based compensation charges;

Changes in operating assets and liabilities which reflect timing
    differences between the receipt and payment of cash associated
    with transactions and when they are recognized in results of
    operations; and

Changes associated with the payment of contingent milestones
    associated with our prior acquisitions of businesses.

For 2010 compared to 2009, the increase in net cash provided by
    operating activities was primarily driven by increased revenues
    and lower payments for U.S. federal income taxes offset by
    an increase in accounts receivable and receivables due from
    unconsolidated joint business.

For 2009 compared to 2008, the decrease in net cash provided by
    operating activities was primarily driven by changes in other
    liabilities and taxes payable, primarily due to an increase in
    income tax payments of $373.4 million which primarily
    resulted from increased earnings and the resolution of a number
    of audits in 2009, the $110.0 million upfront payment made
    to Acorda on July 1, 2009 and the payment of certain
    accrued expenses and other current liabilities.

On November 3, 2010, we announced a restructuring plan that
    involves a workforce reduction and the consolidation of
    facilities. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we began to
    record restructuring charges and currently expect to incur total
    pre-tax costs through the fourth quarter of 2011 totaling
    approximately $110.0 million. The majority of the cash
    expenditures associated with these charges will be paid in the
    first half of 2011 and we expect that substantially all payments
    will be made by the end of 2011.

Investing
    Activities  

For 2010 compared to 2009, the increase in net cash provided by
    investing activities was primarily due to net proceeds received
    from sales and maturities of marketable securities, offset by
    the $86.4 million in payments made to Knopp under our
    recent license and stock purchase agreements, the
    $32.5 million payment made upon our acquisition of Panima,
    our purchases of property, plant and equipment and the milestone
    payment made to the former shareholders of Syntonix. Net
    proceeds received from sales and maturities of marketable
    securities in 2010 totaled $680.3 million compared to net
    purchases of $229.1 million made in 2009.

For 2009 compared to 2008, the increase in net cash used in
    investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in
    collateral received under our securities lending program and an
    increase in net purchases of marketable securities and strategic
    and other investments offset by a reduction in purchases of
    property, plant and equipment and the 2008 milestone
    payment made to the former shareholders of Conforma
    Therapeutics, Inc. The decline in purchases

59

Table of Contents   

of property, plant and equipment was primarily attributable to
    our Hiller d, Denmark manufacturing facility and certain
    other manufacturing upgrades.

Financing
    Activities  

For 2010 compared to 2009, the increase in net cash used in
    financing activities was primarily due to increases in the
    amounts of our common stock repurchased compared to the same
    period in 2009. In 2010, we repurchased approximately
    40.3 million shares of our common stock for approximately
    $2.1 billion compared to 16.0 million shares for
    approximately $751.2 million in 2009. Cash used in
    financing activities also includes the $127.0 in net proceeds
    from the sale of the San Diego facility, which is being
    accounted for as a financing arrangement and activity under our
    employee stock plans. We received $183.5 million in 2010
    compared to $47.8 million in 2009 related to stock option
    exercises and stock issuances under our employee stock purchase
    plan.

For 2009 compared to 2008, the decrease in cash used in
    financing activities was primarily due to the repayment of our
    term loan facility of $1.5 billion in 2008 and a decrease
    in obligations under our securities lending program offset in
    part by the net proceeds of $987.0 million from the
    issuance of long-term debt and a decrease in proceeds received
    from the issuance of stock under our share-based compensation
    programs.

Contractual
    Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Contractual
    Obligations   

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of
    December 31, 2010, excluding amounts related to uncertain
    tax positions, amounts payable to tax authorities, funding
    commitments, contingent milestone payments, our financing
    arrangement related to the San Diego facility, and
    restructuring accruals, as described below.

(1)  

We lease properties and equipment for use in our operations. In
    addition to rent, the leases may require us to pay additional
    amounts for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating
    expenses. Amounts reflected within the table, detail future
    minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases
    as of December 31 for each of the years presented. 

(2)  

Notes payable and line of credit includes principal and interest
    payments. 

(3)  

Purchase and other obligations include our obligations of
    approximately $12.2 million related to the fair value of
    net liabilities on derivative contracts due in less than one
    year, approximately $4.5 million related to fixed
    obligations for the purchase of natural gas and approximately
    $16.8 million related to obligations for communication
    services 

Restructuring   

In connection with our recent restructuring initiative, we are
    in the process of vacating the San Diego, California
    facility and consolidating our Massachusetts facilities. Costs
    associated with closing these facilities, including costs
    related to the termination of certain leases, are reflected
    within our consolidated statement of income as a component of
    total restructuring charges incurred. For a more detailed
    description of our restructuring efforts, including our plan to
    consolidate facilities, please read Note 3,
     Restructuring  to our consolidated financial statements
    included in this report.

60

Table of Contents   

Financing
    Arrangement   

As described in Note 10  Property, Plant  
    Equipment  to our consolidated financial statements included
    in this report, on October 1, 2010, we sold the
    San Diego facility and agreed to lease back the facility
    for a period of 15 months. We have accounted for these
    transactions as a financing arrangement and recorded an
    obligation of $127.0 million on that date. As of
    December 31, 2010, our remaining obligation was
    $125.9 million, which is reflected as a component of
    current portion of notes payable, line of credit and other
    financing arrangements within our consolidated balance sheet.

In January 2011, we entered into an agreement to terminate
    our 15 month lease of the San Diego facility. Under the
    terms of this agreement, we will continue to make monthly rental
    payments through August 31, 2011 and will have no
    continuing involvement or remaining obligation after that date.
    Once the lease arrangement has concluded we will account for the
    San Diego facility as a sale of property and we do not expect to
    recognize a significant gain or loss on the sale at that time.
    We are scheduled to incur debt service payments and interest
    totaling approximately $6.9 million over the term of the
    revised leaseback period.

Tax
    Related Obligations   

We exclude liabilities pertaining to uncertain tax positions
    from our summary of contractual obligations as we cannot make a
    reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the
    respective taxing authorities. As of December 31, 2010, we
    have approximately $137.7 million of liabilities associated
    with uncertain tax positions. Included in these liabilities are
    amounts related to the settlement of certain federal and state
    tax audits in the fourth quarter of 2009. As of
    December 31, 2010, we expect to pay approximately
    $76.1 million within the next twelve months in connection
    with such settlements.

Other
    Funding Commitments   

As of December 31, 2010, we have funding commitments of up
    to approximately $19.0 million as part of our investment in
    biotechnology oriented venture capital funds.

As of December 31, 2010, we have several ongoing clinical
    studies in various clinical trial stages. Our most significant
    clinical trial expenditures are to clinical research
    organizations (CROs). The contracts with CROs are generally
    cancellable, with notice, at our option. We have recorded
    accrued expenses of $16.1 million on our consolidated
    balance sheet for expenditures incurred by CROs as of
    December 31, 2010. We have approximately
    $326.9 million in cancellable future commitments based on
    existing CRO contracts as of December 31, 2010 which are
    not included in the contractual obligations table above because
    of our termination rights.

Contingent
    Milestone Payments   

Based on our development plans as of December 31, 2010, we
    have committed to make potential future milestone payments to
    third parties of up to approximately $1,334.3 million as
    part of our various collaborations, including licensing and
    development programs. Payments under these agreements generally
    become due and payable only upon achievement of certain
    development, regulatory or commercial milestones. Because the
    achievement of these milestones had not occurred as of
    December 31, 2010, such contingencies have not been
    recorded in our financial statements. We anticipate that we may
    pay approximately $55.6 million of milestone payments in
    2011, provided various development, regulatory or commercial
    milestones are achieved. Amounts related to contingent milestone
    payments are not included in the contractual obligations table
    above as they are contingent on the successful achievement of
    certain development, regulatory approval and commercial
    milestones. These milestones may not be achieved.

Other
    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

We do not have any relationships with entities often referred to
    as structured finance or special purpose entities which would
    have been established for the purpose of facilitating
    off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not exposed to
    any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise
    if we had engaged in such relationships. We consolidate variable
    interest entities if we are the primary beneficiary.

61

Table of Contents   

Legal
    Matters  

For a discussion of legal matters as of December 31, 2010,
    please read Note 20,  Litigation  to our consolidated
    financial statements included in this report.

Critical
    Accounting Estimates  

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements, which
    have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP), requires
    us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect
    the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
    expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and
    liabilities. We believe the most complex judgments result
    primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of
    matters that are inherently uncertain and are significant to our
    consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on
    historical experience and on various other assumptions that we
    believe are reasonable, the results of which form the basis for
    making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
    liabilities. We evaluate our estimates, judgments and
    assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from
    these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

The most significant areas involving estimates, judgments and
    assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated
    financial statements are as follows:

Revenue recognition and related allowances;

Collaborative relationships;

Clinical trial expenses;

Consolidation of variable interest entities;

Valuation of contingent consideration resulting from a business
    combination;

Valuation of acquired intangible assets, including in process
    research and development;

Inventory;

Impairment and amortization of long-lived assets and accounting
    for goodwill;

Investments, including fair value measures and impairments;

Share-based compensation;

Income taxes;

Contingencies; and

Restructuring charges.

Revenue
    Recognition and Related Allowances   

We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met:
    persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery of
    product has occurred or services have been rendered; the
    seller s price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and
    collectability is reasonably assured.

Product
    Revenues  

Revenues from product sales are recognized when title and risk
    of loss have passed to the customer, which is typically upon
    delivery. However, sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. are
    recognized on the  sell-through  model, that is, upon
    shipment of the product by Elan to its third party distributor
    rather than upon shipment to Elan. The timing of distributor
    orders and shipments can cause variability in earnings.

Reserves
    for Discounts and Allowances  

We establish reserves for trade term discounts, wholesaler
    incentives, Medicaid rebates, Veterans Administration and PHS
    discounts, managed care rebates, product returns and other
    applicable allowances. These reserves

62

Table of Contents   

are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on
    the related sales. Our estimates take into consideration our
    historical experience, current contractual and statutory
    requirements, specific known market events and trends and
    forecasted customer buying patterns. If actual results vary, we
    may need to adjust these estimates, which could have an effect
    on earnings in the period of the adjustment. The estimates we
    make with respect to these allowances represent the most
    significant judgments with regard to revenue recognition.

In addition to the discounts and rebates described above and
    classified as a reduction of revenue, we also maintain certain
    customer service contracts with distributors and other customers
    in the distribution channel that provide us with inventory
    management and distribution services. We have established the
    fair value of these services and classified these customer
    service contracts as sales and marketing expense. If we had
    concluded that we did not receive a separate identifiable
    benefit or have sufficient evidence that the fair value did not
    exist for these services, we would have been required to
    classify these costs as a reduction of revenue.

Healthcare
    Reform  

In 2010, healthcare reform legislation was enacted in the
    U.S. This legislation contains several provisions that
    affect our accounting estimates. Although many provisions of the
    new legislation did not take effect immediately, several
    provisions became effective in 2010. These include (1) an
    increase in the minimum Medicaid rebate to states participating
    in the Medicaid program from 15.1% to 23.1% on our branded
    prescription drugs; (2) the extension of the Medicaid
    rebate to Managed Care Organizations that dispense drugs to
    Medicaid beneficiaries; and (3) the expansion of the 340B
    PHS drug pricing program, which provides outpatient drugs at
    reduced rates, to include additional hospitals, clinics, and
    healthcare centers. These incremental discounts have been
    factored into determining the amount and timing of our revenues
    on sales to certain customers and are based upon several
    assumptions about the implementation of this new legislation.
    Our estimates are based upon our knowledge of current events and
    actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.

Revenues
    from Unconsolidated Joint Business  

We collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of RITUXAN. Revenues from unconsolidated joint
    business consist of (1) our share of pre-tax co-promotion
    profits in the U.S.; (2) reimbursement of our selling and
    development expense in the U.S.; and (3) revenue on sales
    of RITUXAN in the rest of world, which consists of our share of
    pretax co-promotion profits in Canada and royalty revenue on
    sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada by F.
    Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (Roche) and its sublicensees.
    Pre-tax co-promotion profits are calculated and paid to us by
    Genentech in the U.S. and by Roche in Canada. Pre-tax
    co-promotion profits consist of U.S. and Canadian sales of
    RITUXAN to third-party customers net of discounts and allowances
    less the cost to manufacture RITUXAN, third-party royalty
    expenses, distribution, selling and marketing, and joint
    development expenses incurred by Genentech, Roche and us. We
    record our share of the pretax co-promotion profits in Canada
    and royalty revenues on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. on a
    cash basis. Additionally, our share of the pretax co-promotion
    profits in the U.S. includes estimates supplied by Genentech.
    Actual results may ultimately differ from our estimates.

Bad Debt
    Reserves  

Bad debt reserves are based on our estimated uncollectible
    accounts receivable. Given our historical experiences with bad
    debts, combined with our credit management policies and
    practices, we do not presently maintain significant bad debt
    reserves.

Concentrations
    of Credit Risk  

The majority of our accounts receivable arise from product sales
    in the United States and Europe and are primarily due from
    wholesale distributors, large pharmaceutical companies and
    public hospitals. We monitor the financial performance and
    credit worthiness of our large customers so that we can properly
    assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. We
    continue to monitor economic conditions, including the
    volatility associated with international economies, and
    associated impacts on the relevant financial markets and our
    business, especially in light of the global economic downturn.
    The credit and economic conditions within Italy, Spain, Portugal
    and Greece among other members of the European Union have
    deteriorated throughout 2010. These conditions have resulted in,

63

Table of Contents   

and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length
    of time that it takes to collect on our accounts receivable
    outstanding in these countries.

As of December 31, 2010, our accounts receivable balances
    in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece, were $118.0 million,
    $100.6 million, $23.3 million and $3.9 million,
    respectively, totaling approximately $245.8 million.
    Approximately $45.0 million of these amounts were
    outstanding for greater than one year, none of which related to
    our Greek distributor. As of December 31, 2010, we had
    $50.1 million of receivables that are expected to be
    collected beyond one year, which are included as a component of
    investments and other assets within our consolidated balance
    sheet. To date, we have not experienced any significant losses
    with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable. If
    economic conditions worsen and/or the financial condition of our
    customers were to further deteriorate, our risk of
    collectability may increase, which may result in additional
    allowances
     and/or 
    significant bad debts.

Royalty
    Revenues  

We receive royalty revenues under license agreements with a
    number of third parties that sell products based on technology
    we have developed or to which we own rights. The license
    agreements provide for the payment of royalties to us based on
    sales of these licensed products. There are no future
    performance obligations on our part under these license
    agreements. We record these revenues based on estimates of the
    sales that occurred during the relevant period. The relevant
    period estimates of sales are based on interim data provided by
    licensees and analysis of historical royalties that have been
    paid to us, adjusted for any changes in facts and circumstances,
    as appropriate. We maintain regular communication with our
    licensees in order to assess the reasonableness of our
    estimates. Differences between actual royalty revenues and
    estimated royalty revenues are adjusted for in the period in
    which they become known, typically the following quarter.
    Historically, adjustments have not been material when compared
    to actual amounts paid by licensees. To the extent we do not
    have sufficient ability to accurately estimate revenues; we
    record such revenues on a cash basis.

Collaborative
    Relationships   

We evaluate our collaborative agreements for proper income
    statement classification based on the nature of the underlying
    activity. Amounts due from our collaborative partners related to
    development activities are generally reflected as a reduction of
    research and development expense because the performance of
    contract development services is not central to our operations.
    For collaborations with commercialized products, if we are the
    principal we record revenue and the corresponding operating
    costs in their respective line items within our consolidated
    statements of income. If we are not the principal, we record
    operating costs as a reduction of revenue.

As discussed within Note 19,  Collaborations  to our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report,
    Genentech incurs the majority of continuing development cost for
    RITUXAN. Expenses incurred by Genentech in the development of
    RITUXAN are not recorded as research and development expense,
    but rather reduce our share of co-promotion profits recorded as
    a component of unconsolidated joint business revenue.

Clinical
    Trial Expenses   

Clinical trial expenses include expenses associated with CROs.
    The invoicing from CROs for services rendered can lag several
    months. We accrue the cost of services rendered in connection
    with CRO activities based on our estimate of site management,
    monitoring costs, and project management costs. We maintain
    regular communication with our CROs to gauge the reasonableness
    of our estimates. Differences between actual clinical trial
    expenses and estimated clinical trial expenses recorded have not
    been material and are adjusted for in the period in which they
    become known.

Consolidation
    of Variable Interest Entities   

We consolidate variable interest entities in which we are the
    primary beneficiary. For such consolidated entities where we own
    less than a 100% interest, we record noncontrolling interest in
    our statement of income for the current results allocated to the
    third party equity interests.

64

Table of Contents   

Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted a new accounting
    standard related to the consolidation of variable interest
    entities which affected how we determined whether a variable
    interest or interests give us a controlling financial interest
    in a variable interest entity. In determining whether we are the
    primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, we consider a
    number of factors, including our ability to direct the
    activities that most significantly affect the entity s
    economic success, our contractual rights and responsibilities
    under the arrangement and the significance of the arrangement to
    each party. These considerations impact the way we account for
    our existing collaborative and joint venture relationships and
    may result in the future consolidation of companies or entities
    with which we have collaborative or other arrangements.

Valuation
    of Contingent Consideration Resulting from a Business
    Combination   

For acquisitions completed after January 1, 2009, we record
    contingent consideration resulting from a business combination
    at its fair value on the acquisition date. Each reporting period
    thereafter, we revalue these obligations and record increases or
    decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to contingent
    consideration expense within the consolidated statement of
    income. Changes in the fair value of the contingent
    consideration obligations can result from adjustments to the
    discount rates and periods, updates in the assumed achievement
    or timing of any development milestones, or changes in the
    probability of certain clinical events and changes in the
    assumed probability associated with regulatory approval.
    Significant judgment is employed in determining the
    appropriateness of these assumptions as of the acquisition date
    and for each subsequent period. Accordingly, assumptions
    described above, could have a material impact on the amount of
    contingent consideration expense we record in any given period.

Valuation
    of Acquired Intangible Assets, including In Process Research and
    Development   

We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, intangible
    assets through the acquisition of biotechnology companies or
    through the consolidation of variable interest entities. These
    intangible assets primarily consist of technology associated
    with human therapeutic products and in process research and
    development product candidates. When significant identifiable
    intangible assets are acquired, we generally engage an
    independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining
    the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date.
    Management will determine the fair value of less significant
    identifiable intangible assets acquired. Discounted cash flow
    models are typically used in these valuations, and these models
    require the use of significant estimates and assumptions
    including but not limited to:

estimating the timing of and expected costs to complete the in
    process projects;

projecting regulatory approvals;

estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from
    completed products and in process projects; and

developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by
    project.

We believe the fair values assigned to the intangible assets
    acquired are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions
    given available facts and circumstances as of the acquisition
    dates.

If these projects are not successfully developed, the sales and
    profitability of the company may be adversely affected in future
    periods. Additionally, the value of the acquired intangible
    assets may become impaired. We believe that the foregoing
    assumptions used in the IPR D analysis were reasonable at
    the time of the respective acquisition. No assurance can be
    given, however, that the underlying assumptions used to estimate
    expected project sales, development costs or profitability, or
    the events associated with such projects, will transpire as
    estimated.

Prior to January 1, 2009, we measured acquired IPR D
    in a business combination at fair value and expensed it on
    acquisition date if that technology lacked an alternative future
    use, or capitalized it as an intangible asset if certain
    criteria were met; however, effective January 1, 2009, if
    we are purchasing a business, the acquired IPR D is
    measured at fair value, capitalized as an intangible asset and
    tested for impairment at least annually until commercialization,
    after which time the IPR D is amortized over its estimated
    useful life. If we acquire an asset or group of assets, that do
    not meet the definition of a business under applicable
    accounting standards; then the

65

Table of Contents   

acquired IPR D is expensed on its acquisition date. Future
    costs to develop these assets are recorded to expense as they
    are incurred if the technology lacks alternative future uses.

Inventory   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost
    determined under the
     first-in, 
    first-out (FIFO) method. Included in inventory are raw materials
    used in the production of pre-clinical and clinical products,
    which are expensed as research and development costs when
    consumed.

Capitalization
    of Inventory Costs  

Our policy is to capitalize inventory costs associated with our
    products prior to regulatory approval, when, based on
    management s judgment, future commercialization is
    considered probable and the future economic benefit is expected
    to be realized. We consider numerous attributes in evaluating
    whether the costs to manufacture a particular product should be
    capitalized as an asset. We assess the regulatory approval
    process and where the particular product stands in relation to
    that approval process, including any known safety or efficacy
    concerns, potential labeling restrictions and other impediments
    to approval. We evaluate our anticipated research and
    development initiatives and constraints relating to the product
    and the indication in which it will be used. We consider our
    manufacturing environment including our supply chain in
    determining logistical constraints that could hamper approval or
    commercialization. We consider the shelf life of the product in
    relation to the expected timeline for approval and we consider
    patent related or contract issues that may prevent or delay
    commercialization. We are sensitive to the significant
    commitment of capital to scale up production and to launch
    commercialization strategies. We also base our judgment on the
    viability of commercialization, trends in the marketplace and
    market acceptance criteria. Finally, we consider the
    reimbursement strategies that may prevail with respect to the
    product and assess the economic benefit that we are likely to
    realize.

We expense previously capitalized costs related to pre-approval
    inventory upon a change in such judgment, due to, among other
    potential factors, a denial or delay of approval by necessary
    regulatory bodies. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the
    carrying value of our inventory did not include any costs
    associated with products that had not yet received regulatory
    approval.

There is a risk inherent in these judgments and any changes we
    make in these judgments may have a material impact on our
    results in future periods.

Obsolescence
    and Unmarketable Inventory  

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value. If the actual
    net realizable value is less than that estimated by us, or if it
    is determined that inventory utilization will further diminish
    based on estimates of demand, additional inventory write-downs
    may be required. Additionally, our products are subject to
    strict quality control and monitoring which we perform
    throughout the manufacturing process. In the event that certain
    batches or units of product no longer meet quality
    specifications or become obsolete due to expiration, we will
    record a charge to cost of sales to write-down any obsolete or
    otherwise unmarketable inventory to its estimated net realizable
    value. In all cases product inventory is carried at the lower of
    cost or its estimated net realizable value.

Impairment
    and Amortization of Long-lived Assets and Accounting for
    Goodwill   

Long-lived
    Assets Other than Goodwill  

Long-lived assets to be held and used, including property plant
    and equipment as well as intangible assets, are reviewed for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
    that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.

If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of
    undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-lived asset,
    including its eventual residual value, is compared to the
    carrying value to determine whether impairment exists. In the
    event that such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to
    recover the carrying amount of the assets, the assets are
    written-down to their estimated fair values.

66

Table of Contents   

We also regularly evaluate our current manufacturing utilization
    strategy and assess alternatives. In June 2010, we decided to
    stop further validation of our large-scale manufacturing
    facility in Hiller d, Denmark following completion of the
    facility s operational qualification activities in the
    first half of 2011 as we continue to evaluate our current
    manufacturing utilization strategy. Recent manufacturing
    improvements have resulted in favorable production yields on
    TYSABRI, that along with slower than expected TYSABRI growth,
    have reduced our expected capacity requirements. As a result, we
    have decided to delay the start of manufacturing activities at
    this site until additional capacity is required by the business.
    If we decide to consolidate, co-locate or dispose of certain
    aspects of our business operations, for strategic or other
    operational reasons, we may dispose of or vacate one or more of
    our properties.

Our most significant intangible asset is the core technology
    related to our AVONEX product. We believe the economic benefit
    of our core technology is consumed as revenue is generated from
    our AVONEX product, which we refer to as the economic
    consumption amortization model. This amortization methodology
    involves calculating a ratio of actual current period sales to
    total anticipated sales for the life of the product and applying
    this ratio to the carrying amount of the intangible asset. An
    analysis of the anticipated product sales of AVONEX is performed
    at least annually during our long range planning cycle, and this
    analysis serves as the basis for the calculation of our economic
    consumption amortization model. Although we believe this process
    has allowed us to reliably determine the best estimate of the
    pattern in which we will consume the economic benefits of our
    core technology intangible asset, the model could result in
    deferring amortization charges to future periods in certain
    instances, due to continued sales of the product at a nominal
    level after patent expiration or otherwise. In order to ensure
    that amortization charges are not unreasonably deferred to
    future periods, we compare the amount of amortization determined
    under the economic consumption model against the minimum amount
    of amortization recalculated each year under the straight-line
    method. Amortization is then recorded based upon the higher of
    the amount of amortization determined under the economic
    consumption model or the minimum amortization amount determined
    under the straight-line method.

We completed our most recent long range planning cycle in the
    third quarter of 2010. This analysis is based upon certain
    assumptions that we evaluate on a periodic basis, such as the
    anticipated product sales of AVONEX and expected impact of
    competitor products and our own pipeline product candidates, as
    well as the issuance of new patents or the extension of existing
    patents. Based upon this analysis, we have continued to amortize
    this asset on the economic consumption model for the third and
    fourth quarters of 2010, and expect to apply the same model for
    the next two quarters.

In addition, this analysis did not result in a significant
    change in the expected lifetime revenue of AVONEX. If there are
    any indications that the assumptions underlying our most recent
    analysis would be different than those utilized within our
    current estimates, our analysis would be updated and may result
    in a significant change in the anticipated lifetime revenue of
    AVONEX determined during our most recent annual review. For
    example, the occurrence of an adverse event, such as the
    invalidation of our AVONEX  755 Patent issued in September
    2009, could substantially increase the amount of related
    amortization expense as compared to previous periods or our
    current expectations, which may result in a significant negative
    impact on our future results of operations.

We did not recognize an impairment charge related to our
    long-lived assets during 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Goodwill  

Goodwill totaled approximately $1,146.3 million as of
    December 31, 2010, and relates largely to amounts that
    arose in connection with the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation. Our goodwill balances represent the
    difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the
    identifiable tangible and intangible net assets when accounted
    for using the purchase method of accounting.

We assess our goodwill balance within our single reporting unit
    annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable
    to determine whether any impairment in this asset may exist and,
    if so, the extent of such impairment. The provisions of this
    guidance require that we perform a two-step impairment test. In
    the first step, we compare the fair value of our reporting unit
    to its carrying value. If the carrying value of the net assets
    assigned to our reporting unit exceeds the fair value of our
    reporting unit, then the second step of the impairment test is
    performed in order to determine the implied fair value of our
    reporting unit s goodwill. If the carrying value of our
    reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value,
    then the company records an impairment loss equal to the
    difference.

67

Table of Contents   

We completed our required annual impairment test in the fourth
    quarter of 2010, 2009 and 2008 and determined in each of those
    periods that the carrying value of goodwill was not impaired. In
    each year, the fair value of our reporting unit, which includes
    goodwill, was significantly in excess of the carry value of our
    reporting unit.

Investments,
    including Fair Value Measures and Impairments   

We invest in various types of securities, including:

short-term and long-term marketable securities, principally
    corporate notes, government securities including government
    sponsored enterprise mortgage-backed securities and credit card
    and auto loan asset-backed securities, in which our excess cash
    balances are invested;

equity securities in certain publicly-traded biotechnology
    companies, some of which have collaborative agreements with us;

equity securities of certain companies whose securities are not
    publicly traded and where fair value is not readily
    available; and

investments in biotechnology oriented venture capital funds
    where fair value is not readily available.

In accordance with the accounting standard for fair value
    measurements we have classified our financial assets and
    liabilities as Level 1, 2 or 3 within the fair value
    hierarchy. Fair values determined by Level 1 inputs utilize
    quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
    assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access. Fair
    values determined by Level 2 inputs utilize data points
    that are observable such as quoted prices, interest rates and
    yield curves. Fair values determined by Level 3 inputs
    utilize unobservable data points for the asset or liability.

As noted in Note 6,  Fair Value Measurements  to our
    consolidated financial statements, a majority of our financial
    assets and liabilities have been classified as Level 2.
    These assets and liabilities have been initially valued at the
    transaction price and subsequently valued utilizing third party
    pricing services. The pricing services use many observable
    market inputs to determine value, including reportable trades,
    benchmark yields, credit spreads, broker/dealer quotes, bids,
    offers, current spot rates and other industry and economic
    events. We validate the prices provided by our third party
    pricing services by understanding the models used, obtaining
    market values from other pricing sources, analyzing pricing data
    in certain instances and confirming those securities trade in
    active markets.

We also have some investments classified as Level 3 whose
    fair value is initially measured at transaction prices and
    subsequently valued using the pricing of recent financing or by
    reviewing the underlying economic fundamentals and liquidation
    value of the companies. We apply judgments and estimates when we
    validate the prices provided by third parties. While we believe
    the valuation methodologies are appropriate, the use of
    valuation methodologies is highly judgmental and changes in
    methodologies can have a material impact on our results of
    operations.

Impairment  

We conduct periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each
    investment that has an unrealized loss, in accordance with the
    meaning of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment and its application to certain investments. An
    unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an
    individual security is less than its amortized cost basis.
    Unrealized losses on
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities that are determined to be temporary, and not
    related to credit loss, are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated
    other comprehensive income.

For
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities with unrealized losses, management performs an
    analysis to assess whether we intend to sell or whether we would
    more likely than not be required to sell the security before the
    expected recovery of the amortized cost basis. Where we intend
    to sell a security, or may be required to do so, the
    security s decline in fair value is deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and the full amount of the unrealized loss is reflected within
    earnings as an impairment loss.

Regardless of our intent to sell a security, we perform
    additional analysis on all securities with unrealized losses to
    evaluate losses associated with the creditworthiness of the
    security. Credit losses are identified where we do not expect to
    receive cash flows sufficient to recover the amortized cost
    basis of a security and are reflected within earnings as an
    impairment loss.

68

Table of Contents   

For equity securities, when assessing whether a decline in fair
    value below our cost basis is
     other-than-temporary, 
    we consider the fair market value of the security, the duration
    of the security s decline, and the financial condition of
    the issuer. We then consider our intent and ability to hold the
    equity security for a period of time sufficient to recover our
    carrying value. Where we have determined that we lack the intent
    and ability to hold an equity security to its expected recovery,
    the security s decline in fair value is deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and is reflected within earnings as an impairment loss.

Share-Based
    Compensation   

We make certain assumptions in order to value and record expense
    for our share-based compensation arrangements. We review and
    evaluate our assumptions regularly and, as a result, we confirm
    or change the assumptions used to value share-based awards
    granted in future periods. Such changes may lead to a
    significant increase or decrease in the expense we recognize in
    connection with share-based payments.

In connection with valuing stock options and our employee stock
    purchase plan, we use the Black-Scholes options pricing model,
    which requires us to develop certain subjective assumptions. The
    key assumptions that most significantly affect the calculation
    include the expected volatility of our stock, the expected term
    of the award and the expected forfeiture rate associated with
    our stock option plan.

For each of our restricted stock programs, we make assumptions
    in accounting for these awards, principally related to the
    forfeiture rate.

For our time-vested and performance-vested restricted stock
    awards, each period end, we also develop an estimate of each
    performance factor in order to estimate the actual number of
    shares that will be earned. For our plan, the number of shares
    to be earned is based on company performance metrics, such as
    annual revenue and earnings per share. Thus, during the
    performance period, we estimate our full year revenue and
    earnings per share and then adjust the performance factor after
    the completion of the full year.

In addition, beginning in 2010, we granted certain employees
    restricted stock units which will vest based on stock price
    performance, referred to as market stock units, as well as
    performance-vested restricted stock units which will be settled
    in cash, rather than in shares, referred to as cash settled
    performance shares. These market stock units use a binomial
    model or Monte Carlo simulation to value each award at the grant
    date and include key assumptions such as the expected market
    price of our stock on the vest date and the expected number of
    shares to be vested under the terms of the award. The cash
    settled awards are  marked to market  at the end of
    each period, with fluctuations in value reported through
    earnings.

Income
    Taxes   

We prepare and file income tax returns based on our
    interpretation of each jurisdiction s tax laws and
    regulations. In preparing our consolidated financial statements,
    we estimate our income tax liability in each of the
    jurisdictions in which we operate by estimating our actual
    current tax expense together with assessing temporary
    differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax
    and financial reporting purposes. These differences result in
    deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our
    consolidated balance sheets. Significant management judgment is
    required in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax
    assets. In performing this assessment, we consider whether it is
    more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred
    tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of
    deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future
    taxable income during the periods in which those temporary
    differences become deductible. In making this determination,
    under the applicable financial accounting standards, we are
    allowed to consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax
    liabilities, projected future taxable income, and the effects of
    tax planning strategies. Our estimates of future taxable income
    include, among other items, our estimates of future income tax
    deductions related to the exercise of stock options. In the
    event that actual results differ from our estimates, we adjust
    our estimates in future periods and we may need to establish a
    valuation allowance, which could materially impact our financial
    position and results of operations.

We account for uncertain tax positions using a
     more-likely-than-not  threshold for recognizing and
    resolving uncertain tax positions. We evaluate uncertain tax
    positions on a quarterly basis and consider various factors,
    that

69

Table of Contents   

include, but are not limited to, changes in tax law, the
    measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in
    tax returns, the effective settlement of matters subject to
    audit, new audit activity and changes in facts or circumstances
    related to a tax position. We adjust the level of the liability
    to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts
    surrounding the uncertain positions. Our liabilities for
    uncertain tax positions can be relieved only if the contingency
    becomes legally extinguished through either payment to the
    taxing authority or the expiration of the statute of
    limitations, the recognition of the benefits associated with the
    position meet the  more-likely-than-not  threshold or
    the liability becomes effectively settled through the
    examination process. We consider matters to be effectively
    settled once the taxing authority has completed all of its
    required or expected examination procedures, including all
    appeals and administrative reviews; we have no plans to appeal
    or litigate any aspect of the tax position; and we believe that
    it is highly unlikely that the taxing authority would examine or
    re-examine the related tax position. We also accrue for
    potential interest and penalties, related to unrecognized tax
    benefits in income tax expense.

As of December 31, 2010, undistributed foreign earnings and
    other basic differences of
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    included in consolidated retained earnings aggregated
    approximately $2.4 billion. We intend to reinvest these
    earnings indefinitely in operations outside the U.S.; however,
    if we decide to repatriate funds in the future to execute our
    growth initiatives or to fund any other liquidity needs, the
    resultant tax consequences would negatively impact our results
    of operations. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of
    additional tax that might be payable if such earnings were
    remitted to the U.S.

Contingencies   

We are currently involved in various claims and legal
    proceedings. On a quarterly basis, we review the status of each
    significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure.
    If the potential loss from any claim, asserted or unasserted, or
    legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be
    reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated
    loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination
    of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure
    is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to
    these matters, accruals are based only on the best information
    available at the time. As additional information becomes
    available, we reassess the potential liability related to
    pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates.
    These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities
    could have a material impact on our consolidated results of
    operations and financial position.

Restructuring
    Charges   

We have made estimates and judgments regarding the amount and
    timing of our restructuring expense and liability, including
    current and future period termination benefits and other exit
    costs to be incurred when related actions take place. We have
    also assessed the recoverability of certain long-lived assets
    employed in the business and in certain instances shortened the
    expected useful life of the assets based on changes in their
    expected use. When we determine that the useful lives of assets
    are shorter than we had originally estimated, we record
    additional depreciation to reflect the assets  new shorter
    useful lives. Severance and other related costs and
    asset-related charges are reflected within our consolidated
    statement of income as a component of total restructuring
    charges incurred. Actual results may differ from these
    estimates. For a more detailed description of our recent
    restructuring efforts, please read Note 3,
     Restructuring , to these consolidated financial statements.

New
    Accounting Standards  

For a discussion of new accounting standards please read
    Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Principles
     to our consolidated financial statements included in this
    report.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

We have operations or maintain distribution relationships in the
    U.S., Europe, Middle East, Canada, Central and South America,
    Australia, New Zealand, Japan, China, India and elsewhere in
    Asia in connection with the sale of AVONEX and TYSABRI and in
    Germany in connection with the sale of FUMADERM. We also receive
    royalty revenues based on worldwide product sales by our
    licensees and through Genentech on sales of RITUXAN in the

70

Table of Contents   

rest of world. As a result, our financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows can be affected by market fluctuations
    in foreign exchange rates, primarily with respect to the Euro,
    Canadian dollar, Swiss franc, Danish krone, Swedish krona,
    British pound, and Japanese yen.

We use foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign
    currency risk but do not engage in currency speculation. The
    majority of our forward contracts are used to hedge certain
    forecasted revenue transactions denominated in foreign
    currencies. We also use forward contracts to mitigate the
    foreign currency exposure related to certain balance sheet
    items. We have not elected hedge accounting for the balance
    sheet related items.

The following quantitative information includes the impact of
    currency movements on forward contracts used in both programs.
    As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, a hypothetical adverse
    10% movement in foreign exchange rates compared to the
    U.S. dollar across all maturities (for example, a
    strengthening of the Euro) would result in a hypothetical
    decrease in the fair value of forward contracts of approximately
    $65.5 million and $64.4 million, respectively. Our use
    of this methodology to quantify the market risk of such
    instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of its
    accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. The
    quantitative information about market risk is limited because it
    does not take into account all foreign currency operating
    transactions.

Certain of our debt instruments are variable rate instruments
    and our interest expense associated with these instruments is,
    therefore, subject to changes in market interest rates. As of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, a 100 basis-point adverse
    movement (increase in LIBOR) would increase annual interest
    expense by approximately $0.1 million and $0.2 million,
    respectively.

In addition, the fair value of our marketable securities is
    subject to change as a result of potential changes in market
    interest rates. The potential change in fair value for interest
    rate sensitive instruments has been assessed on a hypothetical
    100 basis point adverse movement across all maturities. As
    of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we estimate that such
    hypothetical adverse 100 basis point movement would result
    in a hypothetical loss in fair value of approximately
    $10.5 million and $16.9 million, respectively, to our
    interest rate sensitive instruments.

The returns from cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities will vary as short-term interest rates change. A 100
    basis-point adverse movement (decrease) in short-term interest
    rates would decrease interest income by approximately
    $11.4 million and $12.5 million as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

We are exposed to equity price risks on the marketable portion
    of equity securities included in our portfolio of investments
    entered into for the promotion of business and strategic
    objectives. These investments are generally in small
    capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. We
    regularly review the market prices of these investments for
    impairment purposes. A hypothetical adverse 10% movement in
    market values would result in a hypothetical loss in fair value
    of approximately $4.5 million and $1.0 million as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Item 8.      

Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

The information required by this Item 8 is contained on
    pages F-1 through F-71 of this report and is incorporated herein
    by reference.

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting  

Controls
    and Procedures   

We have carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and
    with the participation of our management, including our
    principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of
    the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), as of
    December 31, 2010. Based upon that evaluation, our
    principal

71

Table of Contents   

executive officer and principal financial officer concluded
    that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our
    disclosure controls and procedures are effective in ensuring
    that (a) the information required to be disclosed by us in
    the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange
    Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
    time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and
    (b) such information is accumulated and communicated to our
    management, including our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and
    evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our
    management recognized that any controls and procedures, no
    matter how well designed and operated, can provide only
    reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control
    objectives, and our management necessarily was required to apply
    its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of
    possible controls and procedures.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

There were no changes in our internal control over financial
    reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2010 that
    have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management s
    Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting   

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over our financial reporting. Internal
    control over financial reporting is defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act as a process designed by, or
    under the supervision of, a company s principal executive
    and principal financial officers and effected by a
    company s board of directors, management and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the
    U.S. (U.S. GAAP). Our internal control over financial
    reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
    detail, accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and
    dispositions of our assets;

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with U.S. GAAP, and that our receipts and
    expenditures are being made only in accordance with
    authorizations of our management and directors; and

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our
    assets that could have a material effect on our financial
    statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010.
    In making this assessment, management used the criteria set
    forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework.

Based on our assessment, our management has concluded that, as
    of December 31, 2010, our internal control over financial
    reporting is effective based on those criteria.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2010 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included
    herein.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

72

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information concerning our executive officers is set forth
    under the heading  Our Executive Officers  in
    Part I of this report. The text of our code of business
    conduct, which includes the code of ethics that applies to our
    principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
    principal accounting officer or controller, and persons
    performing similar functions, is posted on our website,
    www.biogenidec.com, under the  Board of
    Directors   Corporate Governance  subsection of
    the  About Us  section of the site. We intend to make
    all required disclosures regarding any amendments to, or waivers
    from, provisions of our code of business conduct, at the same
    location of our website. Our corporate governance principles
    (also posted on www.biogenidec.com) prohibit our Board of
    Directors from granting any waiver of the code of ethics for any
    of our directors or executive officers. We include our website
    address in this report only as an inactive textual reference and
    do not intend it to be an active link to our website.

The response to the remainder of this item is incorporated by
    reference from the discussion responsive thereto in the sections
    entitled   Proposal 1   Election of
    Directors,   Corporate Governance,   Stock
    Ownership   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance   and
      Miscellaneous   Stockholder
    Proposals   contained in the proxy statement for our
    2011 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections entitled
      Executive Compensation and Related
    Information   and   Corporate Governance 
     contained in the proxy statement for our 2011 annual meeting
    of stockholders.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections entitled
      Stock Ownership   and   Equity
    Compensation Plan Information   contained in the proxy
    statement for our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the sections entitled
      Certain Relationships and Related Person
    Transactions   and   Corporate
    Goverance   contained in the proxy statement for our
    2011 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
    discussion responsive thereto in the section entitled
      Proposal 2   Ratification of the
    Selection of our Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   contained in the proxy statement for our 2011
    annual meeting of stockholders.

73

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules   

a. (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements: 

The following financial statements are filed as part of this
    report:

Financial Statements 

Page Number 

Consolidated Statements of Income

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Equity

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-8

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-71

(2)  Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or are
    not required, or because the information is included in the
    consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

(3)  Exhibits 

The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index beginning on
     page A-1, 
    which is incorporated herein by reference, are filed or
    furnished as part of this report or are incorporated into this
    report by reference.

74

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

BIOGEN IDEC INC. 

By: 

/s/   George
    A. Scangos 

George A. Scangos

Chief Executive Officer

Date: February 4, 2011

Pursuant to the requirements the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Name 

Capacity 

Date 

/s/   George
    A. Scangos 

George
    A. Scangos

Director and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive
    officer)

February 4, 2011

/s/   Paul
    J. Clancy 

Paul
    J. Clancy

Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer
    (principal financial officer)

February 4, 2011

/s/   Robert
    E. Gagnon 

Robert
    E. Gagnon

Vice President, Finance, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller
    (principal accounting officer)

February 4, 2011

/s/   William
    D. Young 

William
    D. Young

Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors

February 3, 2011

Alexander
    J. Denner

Director

/s/   Caroline
    D. Dorsa 

Caroline
    D. Dorsa

Director

February 3, 2011

/s/   Nancy
    L. Leaming 

Nancy
    L. Leaming

Director

February 3, 2011

/s/   Richard
    C. Mulligan 

Richard
    C. Mulligan

Director

February 3, 2011

/s/   Robert
    W. Pangia 

Robert
    W. Pangia

Director

February 4, 2011

/s/   Stelios
    Papadopoulos 

Stelios
    Papadopoulos

Director

February 3, 2011

75

Table of Contents   

76

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Page 

Consolidated Statements of Income

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Equity

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-8

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-71

F-1

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In
    thousands, except per share amounts)   

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-2

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In
    thousands, except per share amounts)   

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In
    thousands)   

See Note 17,  Other Consolidated Financial Statement
    Detail  to these consolidated financial statements for a
    summary of supplemental disclosure of cash flow information
    including a discussion of a non monetary transaction under which
    we sold the development rights on a parcel of land in Cambridge,
    MA during 2008.

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

(In
    thousands)   

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF EQUITY   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands)   

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF EQUITY   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands)   

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-7

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

1.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Business
    Overview   

Biogen Idec is a global biotechnology company focused on
    discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products
    for the treatment of serious diseases with a focus on
    neurological disorders. We currently have four marketed
    products: AVONEX, RITUXAN, TYSABRI, and FUMADERM. Our marketed
    products are used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS),
    non-Hodgkin s lymphoma (NHL), rheumatoid arthritis (RA),
    Crohn s disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia
    (CLL) and psoriasis.

Consolidation  

Our consolidated financial statements reflect our financial
    statements, those of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and those of
    certain variable interest entities in which we are the primary
    beneficiary. For such consolidated entities in which we own less
    than a 100% interest, we record net income (loss) attributable
    to noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of
    income equal to the percentage of the economic or ownership
    interest retained in the collaborative arrangement or joint
    venture by the respective noncontrolling parties. All material
    intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
    consolidation.

Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted a newly issued
    accounting standard which provides updated guidance for the
    consolidation of variable interest entities and requires an
    enterprise to determine whether its variable interest or
    interests give it a controlling financial interest in a variable
    interest entity. The adoption of this standard did not have an
    impact on our financial position or results of operations. This
    new consolidation guidance for variable interest entities
    replaces the prior quantitative approach for identifying which
    enterprise should consolidate a variable interest entity, which
    was based on which enterprise was exposed to a majority of the
    risks and rewards, with a qualitative approach, based on which
    enterprise has both (1) the power to direct the
    economically significant activities of the entity and
    (2) the obligation to absorb losses of, or the right to
    receive benefits from, the entity that could potentially be
    significant to the variable interest entity. These
    considerations impact the way we account for our existing
    collaborative and joint venture relationships and determine the
    consolidation of companies or entities with which we have
    collaborative or other arrangements. Determination about whether
    an enterprise should consolidate a variable interest entity is
    required to be evaluated continuously as changes to existing
    relationships or future transactions may result in us
    consolidating or deconsolidating our partner(s) to
    collaborations and other arrangements.

Use of
    Estimates  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make
    estimates and judgments that may affect the reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going
    basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments and
    methodologies, including those related to revenue recognition
    and related allowances, our collaborative relationships,
    clinical trial expenses, the consolidation of variable interest
    entities, the valuation of contingent consideration resulting
    from a business combination, the valuation of acquired
    intangible assets, including in process research and
    development, inventory, impairment and amortization of
    long-lived assets including intangible assets, impairments of
    goodwill, share-based compensation, income taxes including the
    valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, valuation of
    investments, derivatives and hedging activities, contingencies,
    litigation, and restructuring charges. We base our estimates on
    historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
    believed to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis
    for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
    liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates
    under different assumptions or conditions.

F-8

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Revenue
    Recognition   

We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met:
    persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has
    occurred or services have been rendered; the seller s price
    to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is
    reasonably assured.

Product
    Revenues  

Revenues from product sales are recognized when title and risk
    of loss have passed to the customer, which is typically upon
    delivery. However, sales of TYSABRI in the U.S. are
    recognized on the  sell-through  model, that is, upon
    shipment of the product by Elan Pharma International, Ltd.
    (Elan), an affiliate of Elan Corporation, plc, to its third
    party distributor rather than upon shipment to Elan.

Product revenues are recorded net of applicable reserves for
    discounts and allowances. Our product revenue reserves are based
    on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the
    related sales. These estimates take into consideration our
    historical experience, current contractual requirements and
    statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends
    and forecasted customer buying patterns.

Reserves
    for Discounts and Allowances  

We establish reserves for trade term discounts, wholesaler
    incentives, Medicaid rebates, Veterans Administration (VA) and
    Public Health Service (PHS) discounts, managed care rebates,
    product returns and other applicable allowances. Reserves
    established for these discounts and allowances are classified as
    reductions of accounts receivable (if the amount is payable to
    our customer) or a liability (if the amount is payable to a
    party other than our customer). In addition, we distribute
    no-charge product to qualifying patients under our patient
    assistance and patient replacement goods program. This program
    is administered through one of our distribution partners, which
    ships product for qualifying patients from its own inventory
    received from us. Gross revenue and the related reserves are not
    recorded on product shipped under this program and cost of sales
    is recorded when the product is shipped.

Product revenue reserves are categorized as follows: discounts,
    contractual adjustments and returns.

Discount reserves include trade term discounts and wholesaler
    incentives. Trade term discounts and wholesaler incentive
    reserves primarily relate to estimated obligations for credits
    to be granted to wholesalers for remitting payment on their
    purchases within established incentive periods and credits to be
    granted to wholesalers for compliance with various
    contractually-defined inventory management practices,
    respectively. We determine these reserves based on our
    experience, including the timing of customer payments.

Contractual adjustment reserves primarily relate to Medicaid and
    managed care rebates, VA and PHS discounts and other applicable
    allowances.

Medicaid rebate reserves relate to our estimated obligations to
    states under established reimbursement arrangements. Rebate
    accruals are recorded in the same period the related revenue is
    recognized resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the
    establishment of a liability which is included in other current
    liabilities. Our liability for Medicaid rebates consists of
    estimates for claims that a state will make for the current
    quarter, claims for  prior quarters that have been estimated for
    which an invoice has not been received, invoices received for
    claims from the prior quarters that have not been paid and an
    estimate of potential claims that will be made for inventory
    that exists in the distribution channel at period end.

VA rebates or chargeback reserves represent our estimated
    obligations resulting from contractual commitments to sell
    products to qualified healthcare providers at prices lower than
    the list prices we charge to wholesalers which provide those
    products. The wholesaler charges us for the difference between
    what the wholesaler pays for the products and the ultimate
    selling price to the qualified healthcare providers. Rebate and
    chargeback reserves are established in the same period as the
    related revenue is recognized resulting in a

F-9

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

reduction in product revenue and accounts receivable. Chargeback
    amounts are generally determined at the time of resale to the
    qualified healthcare provider from the wholesaler, and we
    generally issue credits for such amounts within a few weeks of
    the wholesaler notifying us about the resale. Our reserves for
    VA and chargebacks consists of amounts that we expect to issue
    for inventory that exists at the wholesalers that we expect will
    be sold to qualified healthcare providers and chargebacks that
    wholesalers have claimed for which we have not issued a credit.

Managed care rebate reserves represent our estimated obligations
    to third parties, primarily pharmacy benefit managers. Rebate
    accruals are recorded in the same period the related revenue is
    recognized resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the
    establishment of a liability which is included in accrued
    expenses and other current liabilities. These rebates result
    from performance-based goals that are primarily based on
    attaining contractually specified sales volumes and growth. The
    calculation of the accrual for these rebates is based on an
    estimate of the customer s buying patterns and the
    resulting applicable contractual rebate rate(s) to be earned
    over a contractual period.

Product return reserves are established for returns expected to
    be made by wholesalers and patients and are recorded in the
    period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a
    reduction to product revenue in the period of sale. In
    accordance with our standard contractual terms, wholesalers are
    permitted to return product for reasons such as damaged or
    expired product. Expired product return reserves are estimated
    through a comparison of historical return data to their related
    sales on a production lot basis. Historical rates of return are
    determined for each product and are adjusted for known or
    expected changes in the marketplace specific to each product.

In addition to the discounts and rebates described above and
    classified as a reduction of revenue, we also maintain certain
    customer service contracts with distributors and other customers
    in the distribution channel that provide us with inventory
    management and distribution services. We have established the
    fair value of these services and classified these customer
    service contracts as sales and marketing expense. If we had
    concluded that we did not receive a separate identifiable
    benefit or have sufficient evidence that the fair value did not
    exist for these services, we would have been required to
    classify these costs as a reduction of revenue.

Revenues
    from Unconsolidated Joint Business  

We collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of RITUXAN. Revenues from unconsolidated joint
    business consist of (1) our share of pre-tax co-promotion
    profits in the U.S.; (2) reimbursement of our selling and
    development expense in the U.S.; and (3) revenue on sales
    of RITUXAN in the rest of world, which consists of our share of
    pretax co-promotion profits in Canada and royalty revenue on
    sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada by F.
    Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (Roche) and its sublicensees.
    Pre-tax co-promotion profits are calculated and paid to us by
    Genentech in the U.S. and by Roche in Canada. Pre-tax
    co-promotion profits consist of U.S. and Canadian sales of
    RITUXAN to third-party customers net of discounts and allowances
    less the cost to manufacture RITUXAN, third-party royalty
    expenses, distribution, selling and marketing, and joint
    development expenses incurred by Genentech, Roche and us. We
    record our share of the pretax co-promotion profits in Canada
    and royalty revenues on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S. on a
    cash basis. Additionally, our share of the pretax co-promotion
    profits in the U.S. includes estimates supplied by
    Genentech. Actual results may ultimately differ from our
    estimates.

Royalty
    Revenues  

We receive royalty revenues on sales by our licensees of other
    products covered under patents that we own. There are no future
    performance obligations on our part under these license
    arrangements. We record these revenues based on estimates of the
    sales that occurred during the relevant period. The relevant
    period estimates of sales are based on interim data provided by
    licensees and analysis of historical royalties that have been
    paid to us, adjusted for any changes in facts and circumstances,
    as appropriate. We maintain regular communication with our
    licensees in order to assess the reasonableness of our
    estimates. Differences between actual royalty revenues and
    estimated royalty revenues are adjusted for in the period in
    which they become known, typically the following

F-10

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

quarter. Historically, adjustments have not been material when
    compared to actual amounts paid by licensees. If we are unable
    to accurately estimate revenue, then we record revenues on a
    cash basis.

Milestone
    Revenues  

Under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Elan, once
    sales of TYSABRI exceeded specific thresholds, Elan was required
    to make milestone payments to us in order to continue sharing
    equally in the collaboration s results. These amounts,
    totaling $125.0 million, were recorded as deferred revenue
    upon receipt and are recognized as revenue in our consolidated
    statements of income based on the ratio of units shipped in the
    current period over the total units expected to be shipped over
    the remaining term of the collaboration agreement. As of
    December 31, 2010, there is $108.3 million remaining to the
    amortized.

Multiple-Deliverable
    Revenue Arrangements  

During the third quarter of 2010, in conjunction with our
    entering into a new arrangement to offer contract manufacturing
    services, we elected the early adoption of Accounting Standards
    Update (ASU)
     No. 2009-13, 
    Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements (ASU
     2009-13). 
    ASU  2009-13, 
    amends existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements
    and provides accounting principles and application guidance on
    whether multiple deliverables exist, how the arrangement should
    be separated, and the consideration allocated. This guidance
    eliminates the requirement to establish the fair value of
    undelivered products and services and instead provides for
    separate revenue recognition based upon management s best
    estimate of the selling price for an undelivered item when there
    is no other means to determine the fair value of that
    undelivered item. Previous accounting principles required that
    the fair value of the undelivered item be the price of the item
    either sold in a separate transaction between unrelated third
    parties or the price charged for each item when the item is sold
    separately by the vendor. The early adoption of this standard
    requires the disclosure of the effect of this guidance effective
    as of January 1, 2010, as applied to all previously
    reported interim periods in the fiscal year of adoption. Our
    adoption of this standard on January 1, 2010 had no impact
    on our reported financial position or results of operations,
    since we had not previously recorded any revenue in accordance
    with revenue recognition rules for multiple deliverables as
    described in ASU
     2009-13  or
    its predecessor pronouncements.

Fair
    Value Measurements   

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a newly issued
    accounting standard for fair value measurements of all
    nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities not recognized
    or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a
    recurring basis. The adoption of the accounting standard for
    these assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on
    our financial position or results of operations but may impact
    us in subsequent periods and require additional disclosures.

We have certain financial assets and liabilities recorded at
    fair value which have been classified as Level 1, 2 or 3
    within the fair value hierarchy as described in the accounting
    standards for fair value measurements.

Level 1    Fair values are determined
    utilizing quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
    identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to
    access;

Level 2    Fair values are determined by
    utilizing quoted prices for identical or similar assets and
    liabilities in active markets or other market observable inputs
    such as interest rates, yield curves and foreign currency spot
    rates; and

Level 3    Prices or valuations that
    require inputs that are both significant to the fair value
    measurement and unobservable.

F-11

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance
    sheets for cash equivalents, current accounts receivable, due
    from unconsolidated joint business, other current assets,
    accounts payable, and accrued expenses and other, approximate
    fair value due to their short-term maturities.

In January 2010, we adopted a newly issued accounting standard
    which requires additional disclosure about the amounts of and
    reasons for significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and
    Level 2 fair value measurements. This standard also
    clarified existing disclosure requirements related to the level
    of disaggregation of fair value measurements for each class of
    assets and liabilities and requires disclosures about inputs and
    valuation techniques used to measure fair value for both
    recurring and nonrecurring Level 2 and Level 3
    measurements. In addition, effective for interim and annual
    periods beginning after December 15, 2010, this standard
    further requires an entity to present disaggregated information
    about activity in Level 3 fair value measurements on a
    gross basis, rather than as one net amount. As this newly issued
    accounting standard only requires enhanced disclosure, the
    adoption of this standard did not impact our financial position
    or results of operations and will not affect them in the future.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

We consider only those investments which are highly liquid,
    readily convertible to cash and that mature within three months
    from date of purchase to be cash equivalents. As of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, cash equivalents were comprised
    of money market funds and commercial paper.

Accounts
    Receivable   

Our accounts receivable primarily arise from product sales and
    primarily represent amounts due from our wholesale distributors,
    large pharmaceutical companies, public hospitals and other
    government entities. We monitor the financial performance and
    credit worthiness of our large customers so that we can properly
    assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. We
    provide reserves against trade receivables for estimated losses
    that may result from a customer s inability to pay. Amounts
    determined to be uncollectible are charged or written-off
    against the reserve. To date, such losses have not exceeded
    management s estimates.

Concentration
    of Credit Risk   

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to
    concentrations of credit risk include cash and cash equivalents,
    investments, derivatives, and accounts receivable. We attempt to
    minimize the risks related to cash and cash equivalents and
    investments by using highly-rated financial institutions that
    invest in a broad and diverse range of financial instruments as
    previously defined by us. We have established guidelines
    relative to credit ratings and maturities intended to safeguard
    principal balances and maintain liquidity. Our investment
    portfolio is maintained in accordance with our investment
    policy, which defines allowable investments, specifies credit
    quality standards and limits the credit exposure of any single
    issuer. We minimize credit risk resulting from derivatives
    instruments by choosing only highly rated financial institutions
    as counterparties.

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables, which
    are typically unsecured, are limited due to the wide variety of
    customers and markets using our products, as well as their
    dispersion across many different geographic areas. The majority
    of our accounts receivable arise from product sales in the
    United States and Europe and have standard payment terms which
    are generally between 30 and 90 days. We continue to monitor
    economic conditions, including the volatility associated with
    international economies, and associated impacts on the relevant
    financial markets and our business, especially in light of the
    global economic downturn. The credit and economic conditions
    within Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece, among other members of
    the European Union, have deteriorated throughout 2010. These
    conditions have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an
    increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect
    on our accounts receivable outstanding in these countries.

As of December 31, 2010, our accounts receivable balances
    in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece were $118.0 million,
    $100.6 million, $23.3 million and $3.9 million,
    respectively, totaling approximately $245.8 million.
    Approximately

F-12

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

$45.0 million of this amount was outstanding for greater
    than one year, none of which related to our Greek distributor.
    As of December 31, 2010, we had $50.1 million of
    receivables that are expected to be collected beyond one year,
    which are included as a component of investments and other
    assets within our consolidated balance sheet. To date, we have
    not experienced any significant losses or write-offs with
    respect to the collection of our accounts receivable in these
    countries.

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, one wholesale distributor
    accounted for approximately 11.5% and 8.1% of consolidated
    receivables, respectively.

Inventory   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost
    determined under the
     first-in, 
    first-out (FIFO) method. Included in inventory are raw materials
    used in the production of pre-clinical and clinical products,
    which are expensed as research and development costs when
    consumed.

Capitalization
    of Inventory Costs  

We capitalize inventory costs associated with our products prior
    to regulatory approval, when, based on management s
    judgment, future commercialization is considered probable and
    the future economic benefit is expected to be realized. We
    consider numerous attributes in evaluating whether the costs to
    manufacture a particular product should be capitalized as an
    asset. We assess the regulatory approval process and where the
    particular product stands in relation to that approval process,
    including any known safety or efficacy concerns, potential
    labeling restrictions and other impediments to approval. We
    evaluate our anticipated research and development initiatives
    and constraints relating to the product and the indication in
    which it will be used. We consider our manufacturing environment
    including our supply chain in determining logistical constraints
    that could hamper approval or commercialization. We consider the
    shelf life of the product in relation to the expected timeline
    for approval and we consider patent related or contract issues
    that may prevent or delay commercialization. We also base our
    judgment on the viability of commercialization, trends in the
    marketplace and market acceptance criteria. Finally, we consider
    the reimbursement strategies that may prevail with respect to
    the product and assess the economic benefit that we are likely
    to realize.

We expense previously capitalized costs related to pre-approval
    inventory upon a change in such judgment, due to, among other
    potential factors, a denial or delay of approval by necessary
    regulatory bodies. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the
    carrying value of our inventory did not include any costs
    associated with products that had not yet received regulatory
    approval.

Obsolescence
    and Unmarketable Inventory  

We periodically review our inventories for excess or obsolete
    inventory and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable
    inventory to its estimated net realizable value. If the actual
    net realizable value is less than that estimated by us, or if it
    is determined that inventory utilization will further diminish
    based on estimates of demand, additional inventory write-downs
    may be required. Additionally, our products are subject to
    strict quality control and monitoring which we perform
    throughout the manufacturing process. In the event that certain
    batches or units of product no longer meet quality
    specifications or become obsolete due to expiration, we will
    record a charge to cost of sales to write-down any obsolete or
    otherwise unmarketable inventory to its estimated net realizable
    value. In all cases product inventory is carried at the lower of
    cost or its estimated net realizable value. Amounts written-down
    to unmarketable inventory are charged to cost of sales,
    excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets.

F-13

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Marketable
    Securities and Other Investments   

Marketable
    Debt Securities  

Available-for-sale 
    debt securities are recorded at fair market value and unrealized
    gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss) in equity, net of related tax effects, unless the
    security has experienced a credit loss, we have determined that
    we have the intent to sell the security or we have determined
    that it is more likely than not that we will have to sell the
    security before its expected recovery. Realized gains and losses
    are reported in other income (expense), net, on a specific
    identification basis.

Strategic
    Investments  

As part of our strategic product development efforts, we invest
    in equity securities of certain biotechnology companies. These
    investments are known as strategic investments and are
    classified as
     available-for-sale 
    and accounted for as marketable equity investments or as cost
    investments based upon our ownership percentage and other
    factors that suggest we have significant influence and are
    included in investments and other assets within our consolidated
    balance sheet. When assessing whether a decline in the fair
    value of a strategic investment below our cost basis is
     other-than-temporary, 
    we consider the fair market value of the security, the duration
    of the security s decline, and prospects for the underlying
    business, including favorable or adverse clinical trial results,
    new product initiatives and new collaborative agreements with
    the companies in which we have invested.

Non-Marketable
    Equity Securities  

We also invest in equity securities of companies whose
    securities are not publicly traded and where fair value is not
    readily available. These investments are recorded using either
    the cost method or the equity method of accounting, depending on
    our ownership percentage and other factors that suggest we have
    significant influence. We monitor these investments to evaluate
    whether any decline in their value has occurred that would be
     other-than-temporary, 
    based on the implied value of recent company financings, public
    market prices of comparable companies, and general market
    conditions and are included in investments and other assets
    within our consolidated balance sheet.

Evaluating
    Investments for
     Other-than-Temporary 
    Impairments  

We conduct periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each
    investment that has an unrealized loss, in accordance with the
    meaning of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment and its application to certain investments. An
    unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an
    individual security is less than its amortized cost basis.
    Unrealized losses on
     available-for-sale 
    securities that are determined to be temporary, and not related
    to credit loss, are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other
    comprehensive income.

For
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities with unrealized losses, management performs an
    analysis to assess whether we intend to sell or whether we would
    more likely than not be required to sell the security before the
    expected recovery of the amortized cost basis. Where we intend
    to sell a security, or may be required to do so, the
    security s decline in fair value is deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and the full amount of the unrealized loss is reflected within
    earnings as an impairment loss.

Regardless of our intent to sell a security, we perform
    additional analysis on all securities with unrealized losses to
    evaluate losses associated with the creditworthiness of the
    security. Credit losses are identified where we do not expect to
    receive cash flows sufficient to recover the amortized cost
    basis of a security.

For equity securities, when assessing whether a decline in fair
    value below our cost basis is
     other-than-temporary, 
    we consider the fair market value of the security, the duration
    of the security s decline, and the financial condition of
    the issuer. We then consider our intent and ability to hold the
    equity security for a period of time sufficient to recover our
    carrying value. Where we have determined that we lack the intent
    and ability to hold an

F-14

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

equity security to its expected recovery, the security s
    decline in fair value is deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and is reflected within earnings as an impairment loss.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, subject to
    review for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may
    not be recoverable. The cost of normal, recurring, or periodic
    repairs and maintenance activities related to property, plant
    and equipment are expensed as incurred. The cost for planned
    major maintenance activities, include the related acquisition or
    construction of assets, is capitalized if the repair will result
    in future economic benefits.

Interest costs incurred during the construction of major capital
    projects are capitalized until the underlying asset is ready for
    its intended use, at which point the interest costs are
    amortized as depreciation expense over the life of the
    underlying asset. We also capitalize certain direct and
    incremental costs associated with the validation effort required
    for licensing by regulatory agencies of manufacturing equipment
    for the production of a commercially approved drug. These costs
    include primarily direct labor and material and are incurred in
    preparing the equipment for its intended use. The validation
    costs are amortized over the life of the related equipment.

We also capitalize certain internal use computer software
    development costs. If the software is an integral part of
    production assets, these costs are included in machinery and
    equipment and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
    estimated useful lives of the related software, which generally
    range from three to five years.

We generally depreciate or amortize the cost of our property,
    plant and equipment using the straight-line method over the
    estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which are
    summarized as follows:

Asset Category 

Useful Lives 

Land

Not depreciated

Buildings

15 to 40 years

Leasehold Improvements

Lesser of the useful life or the term of the respective lease

Furniture and Fixtures

7 years

Machinery and Equipment

6 to 15 years

Computer Software and Hardware

3 to 5 years

When we dispose of property, plant and equipment, we remove the
    associated cost and accumulated depreciation from the related
    accounts on our consolidated balance sheet and include any
    resulting gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income.

Intangible
    Assets   

Our intangible assets consist of patents, licenses, core
    developed technology, in process research and development
    acquired after January 1, 2009, trademarks, tradenames,
    assembled workforce and distribution rights. The majority of our
    intangible assets were recorded in connection with the merger of
    Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in 2003. Our
    intangible assets are recorded at fair value at the time of
    their acquisition and are stated within our consolidated balance
    sheets net of accumulated amortization and impairments.

We amortize intangible assets over their estimated useful lives
    using the economic use method unless the straight-line method
    results in significantly greater amortization. Our amortization
    policy reflects the pattern that the economic benefits of the
    intangible assets are consumed. The useful lives of our
    intangible assets are primarily based on the legal or
    contractual life of the underlying patent or contract, which
    does not include additional years for the potential extension or
    renewal of the contract or patent. Intangible assets related to
    patents, licenses, core developed technology, assembled
    workforce, and distribution rights are amortized over their
    remaining estimated useful lives. Intangible assets related to
    trademarks, tradenames and in process research and development
    prior to commercialization are not amortized because they have
    indefinite lives, but they are subject to review for impairment.
    We review our intangible assets with indefinite

F-15

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

lives for impairment annually, as of October 31, and
    whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
    carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.

Our most significant intangible asset is the core technology
    related to our AVONEX product. Our amortization policy reflects
    our belief that the economic benefit of our core technology is
    consumed as revenue is generated from AVONEX. We refer to this
    amortization methodology as the economic consumption model,
    which involves calculating a ratio of actual current period
    sales to total anticipated sales for the life of the product and
    applying this ratio to the carrying amount of the intangible
    asset. An analysis of the anticipated lifetime revenue of AVONEX
    is performed at least annually during our long range planning
    cycle, and this analysis serves as the basis for the calculation
    of our economic consumption amortization model. Although we
    believe this process has allowed us to reliably determine the
    best estimate of the pattern in which we will consume the
    economic benefits of our core technology intangible asset, the
    model could result in deferring amortization charges to future
    periods in certain instances, due to continued sales of the
    product at a nominal level after patent expiration or otherwise.
    In order to ensure that amortization charges are not
    unreasonably deferred to future periods, we compare the amount
    of amortization determined under the economic consumption model
    against the minimum amount of amortization recalculated each
    year under the straight-line method. Amortization is then
    recorded based upon the higher of the amount of amortization
    determined under the economic consumption model or the minimum
    amortization amount determined under the straight-line method.

We monitor events and expectations on product performance to
    identify circumstances which may result in our inability to
    recover the carrying value of these assets. If there are any
    indications that the assumptions underlying our most recent
    analysis would be different than those utilized within our
    current estimates, our analysis would be updated and may result
    in a significant change in the anticipated lifetime revenue of
    AVONEX determined during our most recent annual review. If the
    AVONEX  755 Patent that was issued in September 2009 was
    invalidated we may have to substantially increase the amount of
    related amortization expense compared to previous periods.

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets   

Long-lived assets to be held and used, including property, plant
    and equipment as well as intangible assets, are reviewed for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
    that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable
    such as:

a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset;

a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset
    is used; or

a significant adverse change that would indicate that the
    carrying amount of an asset or group of assets is not
    recoverable.

Determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of
    undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the
    asset and its eventual disposition. In the event that such cash
    flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the carrying
    amount of the assets, the assets are written-down to their
    estimated fair values. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are
    carried at fair value less costs to sell.

Goodwill   

Goodwill relates largely to amounts that arose in connection
    with the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation and represents the difference between the purchase
    price and the fair value of the identifiable tangible and
    intangible net assets when accounted for using the purchase
    method of accounting. Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject
    to periodic review for impairment. Goodwill is reviewed
    annually, as of October 31, and whenever events or changes
    in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the
    goodwill might not be recoverable.

F-16

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

We apply a two-step impairment test. In the first step, we
    compare the fair value of our reporting unit to its carrying
    value. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the
    reporting unit exceeds the fair value of our reporting unit,
    then the second step of the impairment test is performed in
    order to determine the implied fair value of our reporting
    unit s goodwill. If the carrying value of our reporting
    unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the
    company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. As
    described in Note 24,  Segment Information  to these
    consolidated financial statements, we operate in one business
    segment which we consider our only reporting unit.

Acquired
    In Process Research and Development (IPR D)   

Acquired IPR D represents the fair value assigned to
    research and development assets that we acquire that have not
    been completed at the date of acquisition. The value assigned to
    acquired IPR D is determined by estimating the costs to
    develop the acquired technology into commercially viable
    products, estimating the resulting revenue from the projects,
    and discounting the net cash flows to present value. The revenue
    and costs projections used to value acquired IPR D were, as
    applicable, reduced based on the probability of developing a new
    drug. Additionally, the projections considered the relevant
    market sizes and growth factors, expected trends in technology,
    and the nature and expected timing of new product introductions
    by us and our competitors. The resulting net cash flows from
    such projects are based on management s estimates of cost
    of sales, operating expenses, and income taxes from such
    projects. The rates utilized to discount the net cash flows to
    their present value were commensurate with the stage of
    development of the projects and uncertainties in the economic
    estimates used in the projections described above.

Prior to January 1, 2009, we measured acquired IPR D
    in a business combination at fair value and expensed it on
    acquisition date if that technology lacked an alternative future
    use, or capitalized it as an intangible asset if certain
    criteria were met; however, effective January 1, 2009, if
    we are purchasing a business, the acquired IPR D is
    measured at fair value, capitalized as an intangible asset and
    tested for impairment at least annually until commercialization,
    after which time the IPR D is amortized over its estimated
    useful life. If we acquire an asset or group of assets, that do
    not meet the definition of a business under applicable
    accounting standards; then the acquired IPR D is expensed
    on its acquisition date. Future costs to develop these assets
    are recorded to expense as they are incurred if the technology
    lacks alternative future uses.

Valuation
    of Contingent Consideration Resulting from a Business
    Combination   

For acquisitions completed after January 1, 2009, we record
    contingent consideration resulting from a business combination
    at its fair value on the acquisition date. Each reporting period
    thereafter, we revalue these obligations and record increases or
    decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to contingent
    consideration expense within the consolidated statement of
    income. Changes in the fair value of the contingent
    consideration obligations can result from adjustments to the
    discount rates and periods, updates in the assumed achievement
    or timing of any development milestones or changes in the
    probability of certain clinical events and changes in the
    assumed probability associated with regulatory approval.
    Significant judgment is employed in determining the
    appropriateness of these assumptions as of the acquisition date
    and for each subsequent period. Accordingly, any change in the
    assumptions described above, could have a material impact on the
    amount of contingent consideration expense we record in any
    given period.

Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities   

We recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or
    liabilities at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets.
    Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each
    period in current earnings or accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss), depending on whether a derivative is designated
    as part of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge
    transaction. We classify the cash flows from these instruments
    in the same category as the cash flows from the hedged items. We
    do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or
    speculative purposes.

F-17

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

We assess, both at inception and on an ongoing basis, whether
    the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
    effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows or fair values
    of the hedged items. We also assess hedge ineffectiveness on a
    quarterly basis and record the gain or loss related to the
    ineffective portion to current earnings to the extent
    significant. If we determine that a forecasted transaction is no
    longer probable of occurring, we discontinue hedge accounting
    for the affected portion of the hedge instrument, and any
    related unrealized gain or loss on the contract is recognized in
    current earnings.

Translation
    of Foreign Currencies   

The functional currency for most of our foreign subsidiaries is
    their local currency. For the Company s non-U.S.
    subsidiaries that transact in functional currency other than the
    U.S. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated at current
    rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Income and expense
    items are translated at the average foreign exchange rates for
    the period. Adjustments resulting from the translation of the
    financial statements of our foreign operations into
    U.S. dollars are excluded from the determination of net
    income and are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
    income, a separate component of equity. For subsidiaries where
    the functional currency differs from the local currency,
    non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rate
    of exchange in effect on the date assets were acquired while
    monetary assets and liabilities are translated at current rates
    of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Income and expense
    items are translated at the average foreign currency rates for
    the period. Translation adjustments of these subsidiaries are
    included in net income.

Accounting
    for Share-Based Compensation   

Our share-based compensation programs grant awards which have
    included stock options, restricted stock units which vest based
    on stock performance known as market stock units (MSUs),
    performance-vested restricted stock units which will be settled
    in cash (CSPSs), performance-vested restricted stock units which
    settle in shares (PVRSUs), time-vested restricted stock units
    (RSUs) and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan
    (ESPP). We charge the estimated fair value of awards against
    income over the requisite service period, which is generally the
    vesting period. Where awards are made with non-substantive
    vesting periods (for instance, where a portion of the award
    vests upon retirement eligibility), we estimate and recognize
    expense based on the period from the grant date to the date on
    which the employee is retirement eligible.

The fair values of our stock option grants are estimated as of
    the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation model
    and reflect estimated forfeitures. The estimated fair values of
    the stock options are then expensed over the options 
    vesting periods.

The fair values of our RSUs are based on the market value of our
    stock on the date of grant. Compensation expense for RSUs is
    recognized over the applicable service period, adjusted for the
    effect of estimated forfeitures.

We apply an accelerated attribution method to recognize stock
    based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, when
    accounting for our MSUs. The probability of actual shares
    expected to be earned is considered in the grant date valuation,
    therefore the expense will not be adjusted to reflect the actual
    units earned.

We apply an accelerated attribution method to recognize stock
    based compensation expense when accounting for our CSPSs and the
    fair value of the liability is remeasured at the end of each
    reporting period through expected cash settlement. Compensation
    expense associated with CSPSs is based upon the stock price and
    the number of units expected to be earned after assessing the
    probability that certain performance criteria will be met and
    the associated targeted payout level that is forecasted will be
    achieved, net of estimated forfeitures. Cumulative adjustments
    are recorded each quarter to reflect changes in the stock price
    and estimated outcome of the performance-related conditions
    until the date results are determined and settled.

We apply an accelerated attribution method to recognize stock
    based compensation expense when accounting for our PVRSUs. The
    number of units reflected as granted represents the target
    number of shares that are eligible to vest in full or in part
    and are earned subject to the attainment of certain performance
    criteria established at the

F-18

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

beginning of the performance period. Compensation expense
    associated with these units is initially based upon the number
    of shares expected to vest after assessing the probability that
    certain performance criteria will be met and the associated
    targeted payout level that is forecasted will be achieved, net
    of estimated forfeitures. Cumulative adjustments are recorded
    quarterly to reflect subsequent changes in the estimated outcome
    of performance-related conditions until the date results are
    determined.

The purchase price of common stock under our ESPP is equal to
    85% of the lower of (i) the market value per share of the
    common stock on the participant s entry date into an
    offering period or (ii) the market value per share of the
    common stock on the purchase date. However, for each participant
    whose entry date is other than the start date of the offering
    period, the amount shall in no event be less than the market
    value per share of the common stock as of the beginning of the
    related offering period. The fair value of the discounted
    purchases made under our ESPP is calculated using the
    Black-Scholes model. The fair value of the look-back provision
    plus the 15% discount is recognized as compensation expense over
    the purchase period. We apply a graded vesting approach since
    our ESPP provides for multiple purchase periods and is, in
    substance, a series of linked awards.

Research
    and Development Expenses   

Research and development expenses consist of upfront fees and
    milestones paid to collaborators and expenses incurred in
    performing research and development activities, including
    compensation and benefits, facilities expenses, overhead
    expenses, clinical trial and related clinical manufacturing
    expenses, fees paid to clinical research organizations (CROs)
    and other outside expenses. Research and development expenses
    are expensed as incurred. Payments we make for research and
    development services prior to the services being rendered are
    recorded as prepaid assets on our consolidated balance sheets
    and are expensed as the services are provided.

From time to time, we enter into development agreements in which
    we share expenses with a collaborative partner. We record
    payments received from our collaborative partners for their
    share of the development costs as a reduction of research and
    development expense, except as discussed within Note 19,
     Collaborations  to these consolidated financial
    statements. Expenses incurred by Genentech in the development of
    RITUXAN are not recorded as research and development expense,
    but rather reduce our share of co-promotion profits recorded as
    a component of unconsolidated joint business revenue.

Income
    Taxes   

The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, local
    and foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the
    liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
    recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of
    temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
    amounts and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
    apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary
    differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We evaluate
    the realizability of our deferred tax assets and establish a
    valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or
    a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized.

We account for uncertain tax positions using a
     more-likely-than-not  threshold for recognizing and
    resolving uncertain tax positions. We evaluate uncertain tax
    positions on a quarterly basis and consider various factors,
    including, but not limited to, changes in tax law, the
    measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in
    tax returns, the effective settlement of matters subject to
    audit, new audit activity and changes in facts or circumstances
    related to a tax position. We also accrue for potential interest
    and penalties, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income
    tax expense.

Contingencies   

We are currently involved in various claims and legal
    proceedings. On a quarterly basis, we review the status of each
    significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure.
    If the potential loss from any claim, asserted or

F-19

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

unasserted, or legal proceeding is considered probable and the
    amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for
    the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the
    determination of probability and the determination as to whether
    an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties
    related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best
    information available at the time. As additional information
    becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related
    to pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates.
    These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities
    could have a material impact on our consolidated results of
    operations and financial position.

Restructuring
    Charges   

We have made estimates and judgments regarding the amount and
    timing of our restructuring expense and liability, including
    current and future period termination benefits and other exit
    costs to be incurred when related actions take place. We have
    also assessed the recoverability of certain long-lived assets
    employed in the business and, in certain instances shortened the
    expected useful life of the assets based on changes in their
    expected use. When we determine that the useful lives of assets
    are shorter than we had originally estimated, we record
    additional depreciation to reflect the assets  new shorter
    useful lives. Severance and other related costs and
    asset-related charges are reflected within our consolidated
    statement of income as a component of total restructuring
    charges incurred. Actual results may differ from these
    estimates. For a more detailed description of our recent
    restructuring efforts, please read Note 3,
     Restructuring , to these consolidated financial statements.

Earnings
    per Share   

Basic earnings per share is computed using the two-class method.
    Under the two-class method, undistributed net income is
    allocated to common stock and participating securities based on
    their respective rights to share in dividends. We have
    determined that our preferred shares meet the definition of
    participating securities, and have allocated a portion of net
    income to our preferred shares on a pro rata basis. Net income
    allocated to preferred shares is excluded from the calculation
    of basic earnings per share. For basic earnings per share, net
    income available to holders of common stock is divided by the
    weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding.
    For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, net
    income is adjusted for the after-tax amount of net income
    allocable to preferred shares, and the denominator includes both
    the weighted average number of shares of common stock
    outstanding and potential dilutive shares of common stock from
    stock options, unvested restricted stock awards, restricted
    stock units and other convertible securities, to the extent they
    are dilutive.

New
    Accounting Pronouncements   

In April 2010, the FASB issued ASU
     No. 2010-17, 
     Revenue Recognition   Milestone Method  (ASU
     2010-017). 
    ASU  2010-017 
    provides guidance in applying the milestone method of revenue
    recognition to research or development arrangements. Under this
    guidance management may recognize revenue contingent upon the
    achievement of a milestone in its entirety, in the period in
    which the milestone is achieved, only if the milestone meets all
    the criteria within the guidance to be considered substantive.
    This ASU is effective on a prospective basis for research and
    development milestones achieved in fiscal years, beginning on or
    after June 15, 2010, which for Biogen Idec means fiscal
    2011. Early adoption is permitted; however, we have elected to
    implement ASU
     2010-17 
    prospectively, and as a result, the effect of this guidance will
    be limited to future transactions. We do not expect adoption of
    this standard to have a material impact on our financial
    position or results of operations as we have no material
    research and development arrangements which will be accounted
    for under the milestone method.

In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU
     No. 2010-027, 
    Fees Paid to the Federal Government by Pharmaceutical
    Manufacturers (ASU
     2010-027). 
    ASU  2010-027 
    provides guidance concerning the recognition and classification
    of the new annual fee payable by branded prescription drug
    manufactures and importers on branded prescription drugs which
    was mandated under the health care reform legislation enacted in
    the U.S. in March 2010. Under this new accounting standard,
    the annual fee would be presented as a component of operating
    expenses and

F-20

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

recognized over the calendar year such fees are payable using a
    straight-line method of allocation unless another method better
    allocates the fee over the calendar year. This ASU is effective
    for calendar years beginning on or after December 31, 2010,
    when the fee initially becomes effective, which for Biogen Idec
    is fiscal 2011. As this standard relates only to classification,
    the adoption of this accounting standard will not have an impact
    on our financial position or results of operations.

2.    

Acquisitions  

Acquisition
    of Panima Pharmaceuticals AG   

On December 17, 2010, we completed our acquisition of 100%
    of the stock of Panima Pharmaceuticals AG (Panima), an affiliate
    of Neurimmune AG. The purchase price is comprised of a
    $32.5 million cash payment, plus contingent consideration
    in the form of development milestones up to $395.0 million
    in cash. Panima is a business involved in the discovery of
    antibodies designed to treat neurological disorders. The
    acquisition was funded from our existing cash on hand and has
    been accounted for as the acquisition of a business. In addition
    to acquiring 100% of the stock of the entity and obtaining the
    rights to three antibodies, we have obtained the services of key
    employees focused on these activities and acquired certain
    tangible fixed assets. Panima has also entered into an operating
    lease for lab and office space as well as a related contract
    services agreement with Neurimmune AG for the development of the
    acquired antibodies.

As of the acquisition date, we have recorded a liability of
    $81.2 million respresenting the fair value of the
    contingent consideration. This amount was estimated through a
    valuation model that incorporated industry based probability
    weighted assumptions related to the achievement of these
    milestones and thus the likelihood of us making payments. These
    cash outflow projections have been discounted using a rate of
    6.1%, which is the cost of debt financing for market
    participants. This fair value measurement is based on
    significant inputs not observable in the market and therefore
    represents a Level 3 measurement.

The purchase price consists of the following:

We have allocated the purchase price to the following separately
    identifiable assets and liabilities assumed as of December 17,
    2010:

The goodwill recognized is largely attributable to establishing
    a deferred tax liability for the acquired IPR D intangible
    asset, which is not deductible for income tax purposes.

The amount allocated to acquired IPR D represents the fair
    value of such IPR D programs, which were determined based
    on comparable transactions and a risk-adjusted estimate of cash
    flows utilizing a discount rate of 17.5%. One program is
    expected to be completed in 2019 at a cost of approximately
    $391.0 million and the other two programs are expected to
    be completed beginning in 2021 at a cost of approximately
    $788.0 million. This fair

F-21

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

value measurement is based on significant inputs not observable
    in the market and thus represents a Level 3 fair value
    measurement.

Our results of operations include the results of Panima
    following the acquisition date. Separate pro forma financial
    information has not been provided as pro forma amounts
    approximate amounts reported for 2010.

In 2007, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Neurimmune SubOne AG, a subsidiary of Neurimmune AG, for the
    development and commercialization of antibodies for the
    treatment of Alzheimer s disease. For a more detailed
    description of our collaboration agreement with Neurimmune,
    please read Note 18,  Variable Interest Entities  to
    these consolidated financial statements.

Acquisition
    of Biogen Idec Hemophilia Inc.   

In connection with our acquisition of Biogen Idec Hemophilia
    Inc. (BIH), formerly Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Syntonix),
    in January 2007, we agreed to make additional future
    consideration payments based upon the achievement of certain
    milestone events associated with the development of BIH s
    lead product, long-lasting recombinant Factor IX, a product for
    the treatment of hemophilia B. One of these milestones was
    achieved when, in January 2010, we initiated patient enrollment
    in a registrational trial of  Factor IX. As a result of the
    achievement of this milestone, we paid approximately
    $40.0 million to the former shareholders of Syntonix. We
    recorded this payment as a charge to acquired in process
    research and development within our consolidated statements of
    income in accordance with the accounting standard applicable to
    business combinations when we acquired BIH.

3.    

Restructuring  

On November 3, 2010, we announced a number of strategic,
    operational and organizational initiatives designed to provide a
    framework for the future growth of our business, which are
    summarized as follows:

We intend to focus our business on neurology and leverage our
    strengths in biologics research, development and manufacturing
    to pursue select biological therapies where there is a
    significant unmet need and where the drug candidate has the
    potential to be highly differentiated. Accordingly, during the
    fourth quarter of 2010, we began to reallocate resources within
    our research and development organization to maximize our
    investment in our highest-potential programs. As a result, we
    have terminated or are in the process of discontinuing certain
    research and development programs, including substantially all
    of our oncology programs (which we are looking to spin out or
    out-license), our cardiovascular programs and select neurology
    and immunology programs. In addition, we have substantially
    reduced our small molecule discovery activities in favor of
    outsourcing these efforts.

We are in the process of vacating the San Diego, California
    facility and consolidating our Massachusetts facilities. In
    October 2010, we sold the San Diego facility and agreed to
    lease back the facility for a period of 15 months. For a
    more detailed description of these transactions, please read
    Note 10,  Property, Plant and Equipment  to these
    consolidated financial statements.

We eliminated our RITUXAN oncology and rheumatology sales force
    and Genentech, Inc., a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group,
    has assumed sole responsibility for the U.S. sales and
    marketing efforts related to RITUXAN.

We are in the process of completing a 13% reduction in workforce
    and realigning our overall structure to become a more efficient
    and cost-effective organization. The workforce reduction spans
    our sales, research and development and administrative functions.

We expect to incur total restructuring charges of approximately
    $110.0 million, comprised of approximately
    $90.0 million for workforce reduction and
    $20.0 million for facility consolidation.

F-22

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

We recognized $75.2 million of these charges within our
    consolidated statement of income during 2010, which are
    summarized as follows:

We expect that our restructuring effort will be substantially
    completed, and that substantially all of the remaining
    restructuring charges will be incurred by the end of 2011.

Costs associated with our workforce reduction primarily relate
    to employee severance and benefits. Facility consolidation costs
    are primarily comprised of charges associated with the closing
    of facilities, related lease obligations and additional
    depreciation recognized when the expected useful lives of
    certain assets have been shortened due to the consolidation and
    closing of related facilities and the discontinuation of certain
    research and development programs.

The following table summarizes the charges and spending related
    to our restructuring efforts during 2010:

We expect that substantially all remaining payments will be
    made, by the end of 2011.

4.    

Revenue
    Reserves  

Reserves
    for Discounts and Allowances   

An analysis of the amount of, and change in, reserves is
    summarized as follows:

F-23

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The total reserves above, included in our consolidated balance
    sheets, are summarized as follows:

Healthcare
    Reform   

In 2010, healthcare reform legislation was enacted in the
    U.S. This legislation contains several provisions that
    affected our business and our accounting estimates. Although
    many provisions of the new legislation do not take effect
    immediately, several provisions became effective in 2010. These
    include (1) an increase in the minimum Medicaid rebate to
    states participating in the Medicaid program from 15.1% to 23.1%
    on our branded prescription drugs; (2) the extension of the
    Medicaid rebate to Managed Care Organizations that dispense
    drugs to Medicaid beneficiaries; and (3) the expansion of
    the 340(B) PHS drug pricing program, which provides outpatient
    drugs at reduced rates, to include additional hospitals,
    clinics, and healthcare centers. These incremental discounts
    have been factored into determining the amount and timing of our
    revenues on sales to certain customers and are based upon
    several assumptions about the implementation of this new
    legislation. Our estimates are based upon our knowledge of
    current events and actual results may ultimately differ from
    these estimates.

F-24

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

5.    

Inventory  

The components of inventory are summarized as follows:

The components of inventory by product are summarized as follows:

Amounts written-down down related to unmarketable inventory were
    as follows:

6.    

Intangible
    Assets and Goodwill  

In December 2010, we completed our acquisition of Panima and
    allocated a portion of the total purchase price as follows:
    $110.9 million to IPR D and $25.6 million to
    goodwill. For a more detailed description of this transaction,
    please read Note 2,  Acquisitions  to these
    consolidated financial statements.

F-25

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Intangible
    Assets   

Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, impairment
    charges and adjustments, are summarized as follows:

Other than the amounts recorded in connection with our
    acquisition of Panima, intangible assets were unchanged as of
    December 31, 2010, as compared to December 31, 2009,
    exclusive of the impact of amortization. Our most significant
    intangible asset is the core technology related to our AVONEX
    product. The net book value of this asset as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $1,354.3 million and
    $1,516.7 million, respectively.

Amortization of acquired intangible assets totaled
    $208.9 million, $289.8 million and $332.7 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Based upon our most recent analysis, amortization
    of intangible assets included within our consolidated balance
    sheet as of December 31, 2010, is expected to be in the
    range of approximately $170.0 million to
    $210.0 million annually through 2015.

Goodwill   

The following table provides a roll forward of the changes in
    goodwill:

During 2010, we recorded a decrease to goodwill of
    $17.9 million to establish a deferred tax asset that
    existed at the time of the merger of Biogen, Inc and IDEC
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation in 2003.

F-26

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

7.    

Fair
    Value Measurements  

A majority of our financial assets and liabilities have been
    classified as Level 2. Our financial assets and liabilities
    (which include our cash equivalents, derivative contracts,
    marketable debt securities, and plan assets for deferred
    compensation) have been initially valued at the transaction
    price and subsequently valued, at the end of each reporting
    period, typically utilizing third party pricing services or
    other market observable data. The pricing services utilize
    industry standard valuation models, including both income and
    market based approaches and observable market inputs to
    determine value. These observable market inputs include
    reportable trades, benchmark yields, credit spreads,
    broker/dealer quotes, bids, offers, current spot rates and other
    industry and economic events.

We validate the prices provided by our third party pricing
    services by reviewing their pricing methods and matrices,
    obtaining market values from other pricing sources, analyzing
    pricing data in certain instances and confirming that the
    relevant markets are active. After completing our validation
    procedures, we did not adjust or override any fair value
    measurements provided by our pricing services as of
    December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009.

Our strategic investments in publicly traded equity securities
    are classified as Level 1 assets as their fair values are
    readily determinable and based on quoted market prices.

We also maintain certain investments classified as Level 3
    whose fair value is initially measured at transaction prices and
    subsequently valued using the pricing of recent financing or by
    reviewing the underlying economic fundamentals and liquidation
    value of the companies. Our venture capital investments are the
    only investments for which we used Level 3 inputs to
    determine the fair value and represented approximately 0.3% of
    our total assets as of both December 31, 2010 and
    December 31, 2009. These investments include investments in
    certain biotechnology oriented venture capital funds which
    primarily invest in small privately-owned, venture-backed
    biotechnology companies. The fair value of our investments in
    these venture capital funds has been estimated using the net
    asset value of the fund. The investments cannot be redeemed
    within the funds. Distributions from each fund will be received
    as the underlying investments of the fund are liquidated. The
    funds and therefore a majority of the underlying assets of the
    funds will not be liquidated in the near future. The underlying
    assets in these funds are initially measured at transaction
    prices and subsequently valued using the pricing of recent
    financings or by reviewing the underlying economic fundamentals
    and liquidation value of the companies that the funds invest in.
    We apply judgments and estimates when we validate the prices
    provided by third parties. While we believe the valuation
    methodologies are appropriate, the use of valuation
    methodologies is highly judgmental and changes in methodologies
    can have a material impact on our results of operations. Gains
    and losses (realized and unrealized) included in earnings for
    the period are reported in other income (expense), net.

F-27

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The tables below present information about our assets and
    liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis
    as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, and
    indicate the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques we
    utilized to determine such fair value:

In addition to the assets and liabilities measured at fair value
    on a recurring basis, as included with the tables above, during
    the fourth quarter of 2010 we recognized a Level 3 asset
    related to IPR D as well as a Level 3

F-28

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

contingent consideration liability upon our acquisition of
    Panima on December 17, 2010. There has been no significant
    change in the valuation of this liability from the acquisition
    date through December 31, 2010. For a more detailed
    discussion of our valuation of this asset, please read
    Note 2,  Acquisitions  to these consolidated financial
    statements.

The following table provides a roll forward of the fair value of
    our venture capital investments, which are all Level 3
    assets:

The fair values of our debt instruments, which are all
    Level 2 liabilities, are summarized as follows:

The fair values of our credit line from Domp  and our note
    payable to Fumedica were estimated using market observable
    inputs. The fair value of our Senior Notes was determined
    through market, observable and corroborated sources.

F-29

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

8.    

Financial
    Instruments  

Marketable
    Securities, including Strategic Investments   

The following tables summarize our marketable securities and
    strategic investments:

In the tables above, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    government securities included $163.5 million and
    $298.8 million, respectively, of Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation (FDIC) guaranteed senior notes issued by financial
    institutions under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Programs.

Certain commercial paper and short-term debt securities with
    original maturities of less than 90 days are included in
    cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated
    balance sheets and are not included in the tables above. As of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, such commercial paper and CDs,
    including accrued interest, had

F-30

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

fair and carrying values of $30.0 million and
    $76.9 million, respectively, and short-term debt securities
    had fair and carrying values of $621.8 million and
    $399.5 million, respectively.

Summary
    of Contractual Maturities:
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities   

The estimated fair value and amortized cost of our marketable
    securities, excluding strategic investments,
     available-for-sale 
    by contractual maturity are summarized as follows:

The average maturity of our marketable securities as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 was 11 months and
    15 months, respectively.

Proceeds
    from Maturities and Sales of Marketable Securities, excluding
    Strategic Investments   

The proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities,
    excluding strategic investments, and resulting realized gains
    and losses, are summarized as follows:

Proceeds were generally reinvested. Realized losses for the year
    ended December 31, 2010, primarily relate to the sale of
    agency mortgage-backed securities and corporate debt securities.
    Realized losses for the year ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008, primarily relate to losses on the sale of non-agency
    mortgage-backed securities and corporate debt securities.

Strategic
    Investments   

In 2010, we sold one strategic investment for $1.8 million,
    which resulted in an insignificant loss. In 2009 we sold two
    strategic investments for $5.9 million, which resulted in a
    $3.0 million gain. In 2008, we did not sell any portion of
    our strategic investments. Strategic investments are included in
    investments and other assets on the accompanying consolidated
    balance sheets.

In addition to the strategic investments and venture capital
    investments noted in Note 7,  Fair Value Measurements 
    to these consolidated financial statements, we hold other
    investments in equity securities of certain privately-owned
    biotechnology companies and biotechnology oriented venture
    capital funds accounted for using the cost method. The cost
    basis of these securities as of December 31, 2010 and 2009
    is $35.0 million and $73.9 million, respectively.
    These securities are also included in investments and other
    assets on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Impairments   

Prior to the adoption of new accounting standards for the
    recognition, measurement and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments in April 2009, we recognized all
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment amounts related to our marketable debt securities in
    earnings as required under the previously effective guidance
    which

F-31

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

required that management assert that it had the ability and
    intent to hold a debt security until maturity or until we
    recovered the cost of our investment.

In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized $16.6 million,
    $3.8 million, and $16.3 million, in charges,
    respectively, for the impairment of publicly-held strategic
    investments and for declines in value of funds that were
    determined to be
     other-than-temporary. 

In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded $4.1 million,
    $3.2 million, and $2.3 million, respectively, in
    charges for the impairment for certain investments in
    privately-held companies and declines in value of funds recorded
    under the cost method that were determined to be
     other-than-temporary. 

In 2009, we recognized $3.6 million in charges for the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on marketable debt securities. For 2008, we
    recognized $41.7 million in charges for the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment of marketable debt securities primarily related to
    mortgage and asset-backed securities.

9.    

Derivative
    Instruments  

Foreign
    Currency Forward Contracts   

Due to the global nature of our operations, portions of our
    revenues are in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The
    value of revenues measured in U.S. dollars is therefore
    subject to changes in currency exchange rates. In order to
    mitigate the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates
    we use foreign currency forward contracts to
     lock-in  the
    foreign exchange rates associated with a portion of our
    forecasted international revenues.

Foreign currency forward contracts in effect as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 had durations of 1 to
    12 months. These contracts have been designated as cash
    flow hedges and accordingly, to the extent effective, any
    unrealized gains or losses on these foreign currency forward
    contracts are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss). Realized gains and losses for the effective portion of
    such contracts are recognized in revenue when the sale of
    product in the currency being hedged is recognized. To the
    extent ineffective, hedge transaction gains and losses are
    reported in other income (expense), net.

The notional value of foreign currency forward contracts that
    were entered into to hedge forecasted revenue is summarized as
    follows:

The portion of the fair value of these contracts that was
    included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within
    total equity reflected losses of $11.0 million and gains of
    $1.2 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. We expect all contracts to be settled over the
    next 12 months and any amounts in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) to be reported as an adjustment to
    revenue. We consider the impact of our and our
    counterparties  credit risk on the fair value of the
    contracts as well as the ability of each party to execute its
    obligations under the contract. As of December 31, 2010 and
    2009, respectively, credit risk did not materially change the
    fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts.

In relation to our foreign currency forward contracts, we
    recognized in other income (expense) net gains of
    $0.4 million and net losses of $1.1 million and
    $0.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, due to hedge ineffectiveness.

F-32

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2010, we
    recognized in product revenue $45.7 million of net gains
    compared to net losses of $49.7 million and
    $8.5 million, for the years ended December 31, 2009
    and 2008, respectively, for the settlement of certain effective
    cash flow hedge instruments. These settlements were recorded in
    the same period as the related forecasted revenue.

Summary
    of Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments  

The following table summarizes the fair value and presentation
    in the consolidated balance sheets for derivatives designated as
    hedging instruments:

Fair Value 

(In millions) 

Balance Sheet Location 

As of December 31, 2010 

Foreign Currency Contracts 

Asset derivatives

Other current assets

$

Liability derivatives

Accrued expenses and other

$

11.0

Fair Value 

(In millions) 

Balance Sheet Location 

As of December 31, 2009 

Foreign Currency Contracts 

Asset derivatives

Other current assets

$

10.8

Liability derivatives

Accrued expenses and other

$

9.8

The following table summarizes the effect of derivatives
    designated as hedging instruments on the consolidated statements
    of income:

Amount 

Amount 

Recognized in 

Reclassified from 

Accumulated Other 

Accumulated Other 

Comprehensive 

Comprehensive 

Income (Loss) 

Income (Loss) 

Amount of 

on Derivative 

Income Statement 

into Income 

Income Statement 

Gain/(Loss) 

Gain/(Loss) 

Location 

Gain/(Loss) 

Location 

Recorded 

For the Years Ended (In millions) 

(Effective Portion) 

(Effective Portion) 

(Effective Portion) 

(Ineffective Portion) 

(Ineffective Portion) 

December 31, 2010: 

Foreign currency contracts

$

(11.0

)

Revenue

$

45.7

Other income 
    (expense)

$

0.4

December 31, 2009: 

Foreign currency contracts

$

1.2

Revenue

$

(49.7

)

Other income 
    (expense)

$

(1.1

)

December 31, 2008: 

Foreign currency contracts

$

(44.1

)

Revenue

$

(8.5

)

Other income 
    (expense)

$

0.2

Interest rate swap

$

Interest expense

$

Interest expense

$

(8.9

)

Other
    Derivatives  

We also enter into other foreign currency forward contracts,
    usually with one month durations, to mitigate the foreign
    currency risk related to certain balance sheet positions. We
    have not elected hedge accounting for these transactions. The
    aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency
    contracts was $160.8 million and $188.0 million as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The fair value of
    these contracts was a net asset of $0.1 million as of
    December 31, 2010 compared to a net asset of
    $3.8 million as of December 31, 2009. Net gains of
    $6.0 million and $2.5 million related to these
    contracts were recognized as a component of other income
    (expense), net, for years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

F-33

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Interest
    Rate Swaps  

In connection with the issuance of our 6.875% Senior Notes
    in March 2008, we entered into interest rate swap contracts with
    an aggregate notional amount of $550.0 million. We
    terminated these interest rate swaps in December 2008 and
    received $53.9 million upon settlement. In the year ended
    December 31, 2008, we recognized a net loss of
    $8.9 million in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness.

Upon termination of the interest rate swaps in December 2008,
    the carrying amount of the 6.875% Senior Notes increased
    $62.8 million. This amount will be recognized as a
    reduction of interest expense and amortized using the effective
    interest rate method over the remaining life of the
    6.875% Senior Notes. In 2010 and 2009, approximately
    $5.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively, was
    recorded as a reduction of interest expense.

10.    

Property,
    Plant and Equipment  

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at historical cost,
    net of accumulated depreciation. Components of property, plant
    and equipment, net are summarized as follows:

Depreciation expense was $144.9 million,
    $137.9 million, and $129.1 million for 2010, 2009, and
    2008, respectively.

Hiller d,
    Denmark Facility   

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the construction in
    progress balance related to the construction of our large-scale
    biologic manufacturing facility in Hiller d, Denmark
    totaled $440.2 million and $441.2 million,
    respectively. In connection with our construction of this
    facility, we capitalized approximately $28.4 million,
    $28.4 million and $23.2 million of interest costs to
    construction in progress for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

This facility is intended to manufacture large molecule
    products. Recent manufacturing improvements have resulted in
    favorable production yields on TYSABRI, that along with slower
    than expected TYSABRI growth, have reduced our expected capacity
    requirements. As a result, we plan to delay the start of
    manufacturing activities at this site until additional capacity
    is required by the business and stop further validation once
    operational qualification activities are completed in the first
    half of 2011.

San Diego
    Facility   

On October 1, 2010, we sold the San Diego facility,
    which is comprised of 43 acres of land and buildings
    totaling approximately 355,000 square feet of laboratory
    and office space, for cash proceeds, net of transaction costs,
    of approximately $127.0 million. We had an option to cause
    the buyer to construct a 160,000 square foot

F-34

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

office and laboratory facility in San Diego which we would
    lease for a term of 10 years, which was not exercised and
    expired on November 1, 2010. As part of this transaction,
    we have also agreed to lease back the San Diego facility
    for a period of 15 months. We are accounting for this
    transaction as a financing arrangement.

We have determined that the transaction does not qualify as a
    sale due to our continuing involvement under the leaseback
    terms. Accordingly, the facility assets remain classified as
    held for use and their carrying value is reflected as a
    component of property, plant and equipment, net within our
    consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010. We have
    not recognized a loss or impairment charge related to the
    San Diego facility.

The net carrying amounts of the major classes of assets are
    summarized as follows:

In January 2011, we entered into an agreement to terminate our
    15 month lease of the San Diego facility. Under the terms of
    this agreement, we will continue to make monthly rental payments
    through August 31, 2011 and will have no continuing involvement
    or remaining obligation after that date. Once the lease
    arrangement has concluded we will account for the San Diego
    facility as a sale of property. We are scheduled to incur debt
    service payments and interest totaling approximately $6.9
    million over the term of the revised leaseback period.

Other   

In November 2010, we decided to close the facility in San Diego,
    California and consolidate our Massachusetts facilities. If we
    decide to further consolidate, co-locate or dispose of certain
    aspects of our business operations, for strategic or other
    operational reasons, we may dispose of one or more of our
    properties. If we determine that the fair value of any of our
    owned properties, including any properties we may classify as
    held for sale, is lower than their book value or we cannot
    recover the net book value of these assets, we may incur
    impairment charges which could be significant. In addition, if
    we decide to fully or partially vacate a leased property, we may
    incur significant cost, including lease termination fees, rent
    expense in excess of sublease income and impairment of leasehold
    improvements.

F-35

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Our indebtedness is summarized as follows:

The following is a summary description of our principal
    indebtedness as of December 31, 2010:

Senior
    Notes   

On March 4, 2008, we issued $450.0 million aggregate
    principal amount of 6.0% Senior Notes due March 1,
    2013 and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of
    6.875% Senior Notes due March 1, 2018 at 99.886% and
    99.184% of par, respectively. The discount is amortized as
    additional interest expense over the period from issuance
    through maturity. These notes are senior unsecured obligations.
    Interest on the notes is payable March 1 and September 1 of each
    year. The notes may be redeemed at our option at any time at
    100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest and a
    specified make-whole amount. The notes contain a change of
    control provision that may require us to purchase the notes
    under certain circumstances. There is also an interest rate
    adjustment feature that requires us to pay interest at an
    increased interest rate on the notes if the credit rating on the
    notes declines below investment grade. Offering costs of
    approximately $8.0 million have been recorded as debt
    issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet and are
    amortized as additional interest expense using the effective
    interest rate method over the period from issuance through
    maturity.

Upon the issuance of the debt we entered into interest rate swap
    contracts where we received a fixed rate and paid a variable
    rate, as further described in Note 9,  Derivative
    Instruments  to these consolidated financial statements.
    These contracts were terminated in December 2008. Upon
    termination of these swaps, the carrying amount of the
    6.875% Senior Notes due in 2018 was increased by
    $62.8 million and is being amortized using the effective
    interest rate method over the remaining life of the Senior Notes
    and is being recognized as a reduction of interest expense. As
    of December 31, 2010, there is $51.4 million remaining
    to be amortized.

Revolving
    Credit Facility   

We have a $360.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit
    facility, which may be used for future working capital and
    general corporate purposes. The facility terminates in June
    2012. During 2010, 2009 and 2008 there were no borrowings under
    this credit facility and we were in compliance with all
    applicable covenants.

F-36

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Biogen-Domp    

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, Biogen-Domp  SRL, a
    consolidated joint venture, has a loan balance of
    6.0 million Euros ($8.0 million) and 12.0 million
    Euros ($17.2 million), respectively. These balances
    represent a line of credit from us and Domp  Farmaceutici
    SpA, half of which has been eliminated for purposes of
    presenting our consolidated financial position as it is an
    intercompany loan. Borrowings under this line of credit are to
    be made equally between the partners, with any repayments paid
    in a similar manner. The interest rate on the line of credit is
    the three month Euro LIBOR plus 150 basis points and was
    2.4% and 2.2% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The interest rate is reset quarterly and payable
    quarterly in arrears. Any borrowing on the line of credit is
    due, in full, on December 1, 2011.

Notes
    Payable to Fumedica   

In connection with our 2006 distribution agreement with
    Fumedica, we issued notes totaling 61.4 million Swiss
    Francs which were payable to Fumedica in varying amounts from
    June 2008 through June 2018. In June 2010, we repaid
    12.0 million Swiss Francs ($10.3 million) of the
    outstanding amount. As of December 31, 2010, our remaining
    note payable to Fumedica has a present value of
    20.7 million Swiss Francs ($22.0 million) and remains
    payable in a series of payments through June 2018.

Financing
    Arrangement   

As described in Note 10,  Property, Plant  
    Equipment  to these consolidated financial statements, on
    October 1, 2010, we sold the San Diego facility and
    agreed to lease back the facility for a period of
    15 months. We have accounted for these transactions as a
    financing arrangement and recorded an obligation of
    $127.0 million on that date, reflecting cash proceeds
    received net of transaction costs. As of December 31, 2010,
    our remaining obligation was $125.9 million, which is
    reflected as a component of current portion of notes payable,
    line of credit and other financing arrangements within our
    consolidated balance sheet. In January 2011, we entered into an
    agreement to terminate our 15 month lease of the
    San Diego facility. Under the terms of this agreement, we
    will continue to make monthly rental payments through
    August 31, 2011 and will have no continuing involvement or
    remaining obligation after that date. Once the lease arrangement
    has concluded we will account for the San Diego facility as
    a sale of property. We are scheduled to incur debt service
    payments and interest totaling approximately $6.9 million
    over the term of the revised leaseback period.

Debt
    Maturity   

Our total debt, excluding the San Diego financing arrangement,
    matures as follows:

The fair value of our debt is disclosed in Note 7,  Fair
    Value Measurements  to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-37

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Preferred
    Stock   

The following table describes the number of shares authorized,
    issued and outstanding of our preference stock as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009:

We have 8,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock authorized, of
    which 1,750,000 shares have been designated as
    Series A Preferred Stock and 1,000,000 shares have
    been designated as Series X Junior Participating Preferred
    Stock. The shares may be issued without a vote or action of
    stockholders from time to time in classes or series with the
    designations, powers, preferences, and the relative,
    participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of
    each such class or series and any qualifications, limitations or
    restrictions thereon as set forth in the instruments governing
    such shares. Any such Preferred Stock may rank prior to common
    stock as to dividend rights, liquidation preference or both, and
    may have full or limited voting rights and may be convertible
    into shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2010, 2009
    and 2008, there were 8,221 shares of Series A
    Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. These shares carry a
    liquidation preference of $67 per share and are convertible into
    60 shares of common stock per share of Preferred Stock. No
    other shares of Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Common
    Stock   

The following table describes the number of shares authorized,
    issued and outstanding of our common stock as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009:

Share
    Repurchases   

During 2010, we repurchased approximately 40.3 million
    shares of common stock at a cost of approximately
    $2.1 billion under our 2010 and 2009 share repurchase
    authorizations. We retired all of these shares as they were
    acquired. In connection with this retirement, in accordance with
    our policy, we recorded an approximately $2.1 billion
    reduction in additional
     paid-in-capital. 
    The 2010 and 2009 share repurchase programs were completed
    during the third and first quarters of 2010, respectively.

Stockholder
    Rights Plan   

In January 2009, we terminated our stockholders rights plan. The
    plan was adopted in 1997 and scheduled to expire in 2011. Under
    the rights plan, each share of our common stock had one
     right  attached to it that entitled the holder to
    purchase our Series X Junior Participating Preferred Stock
    under the circumstances specified in the rights plan. No rights
    are outstanding or exercisable following termination of the plan.

F-38

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

13.    

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the
    following:

Unrealized holding gains on securities available for sale is
    shown net of tax of $7.3 million and $6.6 million as
    of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Unrealized
    gains (losses) on foreign currency forward contracts are shown
    net of tax of $1.3 million, and $0.3 million as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The unfunded
    status of pension and retirement benefit plans is shown net of
    tax as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Tax amounts in both
    years were immaterial. For discussion of the unfunded status of
    pension and retirement benefit plans, please read Note 23,
     Employee Benefit Plans  to these consolidated financial
    statements.

Amounts comprising noncontrolling interests, as reported in our
    consolidated statements of equity as of December 31, 2010
    and 2009 included accumulated translation adjustments of
    $0.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively.

Comprehensive income (loss) and its components are presented in
    the consolidated statements of equity.

Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows:

F-39

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following amounts were not included in the calculation of
    net income per basic and diluted share because their effects
    were anti-dilutive:

Earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2010
    and 2009 reflects, on a weighted average basis, the repurchase
    of 40.3 million shares and 16.0 million shares,
    respectively of our common stock under our share repurchase
    authorizations.

15.    

Share-based
    Compensation  

Share-based
    Compensation Expense   

The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense
    included within our consolidated statements of income:

F-40

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense
    associated with each of our share-based compensation programs:

Windfall tax benefits from vesting of stock awards, exercises of
    stock options and ESPP participation were $13.1 million,
    $3.4 million and $28.0 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. These amounts have been calculated under the
    alternative transition method in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

As of December 31, 2010, unrecognized compensation cost
    related to unvested share-based compensation was approximately
    $130.5 million, net of estimated forfeitures. We expect to
    recognize the cost of these unvested awards over a
    weighted-average period of 1.3 years.

Share-Based
    Compensation Plans   

We have three share-based compensation plans pursuant to which
    awards are currently being made: (1) the Biogen Idec Inc.
    2006 Non-Employee Directors Equity Plan (2006 Directors
    Plan); (2) the Biogen Idec Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan
    (2008 Omnibus Plan); and (3) the Biogen Idec Inc. 1995
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). We have six share-based
    compensation plans pursuant to which outstanding awards have
    been made, but from which no further awards can or will be made:
    (i) the IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation 1993 Non-Employee
    Directors Stock Option Plan; (ii) the IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation 1988 Stock Option Plan; (iii) the Biogen, Inc.
    1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan; (iv) the Biogen, Inc.
    1987 Scientific Board Stock Option Plan; (v) the Biogen
    Idec Inc. 2003 Omnibus Equity Plan (2003 Omnibus Plan); and
    (vi) the Biogen Idec Inc. 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan (2005
    Omnibus Plan). We have not made any awards pursuant to the 2005
    Omnibus Plan since our stockholders approved the 2008 Omnibus
    Plan and do not intend to make any awards pursuant to the 2005
    Omnibus Plan in the future, except that unused shares under the
    2005 Omnibus Plan have been carried over for use under the 2008
    Omnibus Plan.

Directors
    Plan  

In May 2006, our stockholders approved the 2006 Directors
    Plan for share-based awards to our directors. Awards granted
    from the 2006 Directors Plan may include stock options,
    shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock
    appreciation rights and other awards in such amounts and with
    such terms and conditions as may be determined by a committee of
    our Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of the plan.
    We have reserved a total of 1.6 million shares of common
    stock for issuance under the 2006 Directors Plan. The
    2006 Directors Plan provides that awards other than stock
    options and stock appreciation rights will be counted against
    the total number of shares reserved under the plan in a 1.5-to-1
    ratio.

F-41

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Omnibus
    Plans  

In June 2008, our stockholders approved the 2008 Omnibus Plan
    for share-based awards to our employees. Awards granted from the
    2008 Omnibus Plan may include stock options, shares of
    restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares,
    shares of phantom stock, stock appreciation rights and other
    awards in such amounts and with such terms and conditions as may
    be determined by a committee of our Board of Directors, subject
    to the provisions of the plan. Shares of common stock available
    for issuance under the 2008 Omnibus Plan consist of
    15.0 million shares reserved for this purpose, plus shares
    of common stock that remained available for issuance under the
    2005 Omnibus Plan on the date that our stockholders approved the
    2008 Omnibus Plan, plus shares that are subject to awards under
    the 2005 Omnibus Plan which remain unissued upon the
    cancellation, surrender, exchange or termination of such awards.
    The 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan provides that awards other than
    stock options and stock appreciation rights will be counted
    against the total number of shares available under the plan in a
    1.5-to-1 ratio.

Stock
    Options   

All stock option grants to employees are for a ten-year term and
    generally vest one-fourth per year over four years on the
    anniversary of the date of grant, provided the employee remains
    continuously employed with us. Stock option grants to directors
    are for ten-year terms and generally vest as follows:
    (1) grants made on the date of a director s initial
    election to our Board of Directors vest one-third per year over
    three years on the anniversary of the date of grant and
    (2) grants made for service on our Board of Directors vest
    on the first anniversary of the date of grant, provided in each
    case that the director continues to serve on our Board of
    Directors through the vesting date. Options granted under all
    plans are exercisable at a price per share not less than the
    fair market value of the underlying common stock on the date of
    grant. The estimated fair value of options, including the effect
    of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the options 
    vesting periods. The fair value of the stock options granted in
    2010, 2009 and 2008 was estimated as of the date of grant using
    a Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the following
    weighted-average assumptions:

The expected life of options granted is derived using assumed
    exercise rates based on historical exercise patterns and
    represents the period of time that options granted are expected
    to be outstanding. Expected stock price volatility is based upon
    implied volatility for our exchange-traded options and other
    factors, including historical volatility. After assessing all
    available information on either historical volatility, implied
    volatility, or both, we have concluded that a combination of
    both historical and implied volatility provides the best
    estimate of expected volatility. The risk-free interest rate
    used is determined by the market yield curve based upon
    risk-free interest rates established by the Federal Reserve, or
    non-coupon bonds that have maturities equal to the expected
    term. The dividend yield of zero is based upon the fact that we
    have not historically granted cash dividends, and do not expect
    to issue dividends in the foreseeable future. Stock options
    granted prior to January 1, 2006 were valued based on the
    grant date fair value of those awards, using the Black-Scholes
    option pricing model, as previously calculated for pro-forma
    disclosures.

F-42

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes our stock option activity:

Of the options outstanding, 6.0 million were exercisable as
    of December 31, 2010. The exercisable options had a
    weighted-average exercise price of $55.68. The aggregate
    intrinsic value of options exercisable as of December 31,
    2010 was $69.4 million. The weighted average remaining
    contractual term for options exercisable as of December 31,
    2010 was 3.6 years.

A total of 6.9 million vested and expected to vest options
    were outstanding as of December 31, 2010. These vested and
    expected to vest options had a weighted average exercise price
    of $55.48 and an aggregated intrinsic value of
    $81.3 million. The weighted average remaining contractual
    term of vested and expected to vest options as of
    December 31, 2010 was 4.2 years.

The total intrinsic values of options exercised in 2010, 2009
    and 2008 were $50.5 million, $6.7 million and
    $85.1 million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic values
    of options outstanding as of December 31, 2010 totaled
    $84.9 million. The weighted average remaining contractual
    term for options outstanding as of December 31, 2010 was
    4.3 years.

The following table summarizes the amount of tax benefit
    realized for stock options and cash received from the exercise
    of stock options:

Market
    Stock Units (MSUs) and Cash Settled Performance Shares
    (CSPSs)   

Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, we revised our long term
    incentive program to include two new forms of equity-based
    compensation awards to certain employees: restricted stock units
    which will vest based on stock price performance, referred to as
    MSUs, and performance-vested restricted stock units which will
    be settled in cash, referred to as CSPSs. We will apply
    forfeiture rate assumptions to these types of awards similar to
    those utilized by us when accounting for our other share-based
    compensation programs.

F-43

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Market
    Stock Units  

During 2010, approximately 405,000 MSUs were granted with a
    weighted average grant date fair value of $61.87. MSU awards
    vest in four equal annual increments beginning on the
    anniversary of the grant date. The vesting of these awards is
    subject to the respective employee s continued employment.
    The number of MSUs reflected as granted represents the target
    number of units that are eligible to be earned based on the
    attainment of certain market-based criteria involving our stock
    price. The number of MSUs earned is calculated at each annual
    anniversary from the date of grant over the respective vesting
    periods, resulting in multiple performance periods. Participants
    may ultimately earn between 0% and 150% of the target number of
    units granted based on actual stock performance. Accordingly,
    additional MSUs may be issued or currently outstanding MSUs may
    be cancelled upon final determination of the number of awards
    earned.

We have valued the granted MSUs using a lattice model with a
    Monte Carlo simulation. This valuation methodology utilizes
    several key assumptions, including the 60 calendar day average
    closing stock price on grant date, expected volatility of our
    stock price, risk-free rates of return and expected dividend
    yield. The assumptions used in our valuation are summarized as
    follows:

Cash
    Settled Performance Shares  

During 2010, approximately 380,000 CSPSs were granted. CSPS
    awards vest in three equal annual increments beginning on the
    anniversary of the grant date. The vesting of these awards is
    subject to the respective employee s continued employment.
    The number of CSPSs reflected as granted in 2010 represents the
    target number of units that are eligible to be earned based on
    the attainment of certain performance measures established at
    the beginning of the performance period, which ended
    December 31, 2010. Participants may ultimately earn between
    0% and 200% of the target number of units granted based on the
    degree of actual performance metric achievement. Accordingly,
    additional CSPSs may be issued or currently outstanding CSPSs
    may be cancelled upon final determination of the number of units
    earned. CSPSs are settled in cash based on the 60 calendar day
    average closing stock price through each vesting date once the
    actual vested and earned number of units is known.

Time-Vested
    Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)   

RSUs awarded to employees generally vest no sooner than
    one-third per year over three years on the anniversary of the
    date of grant, or upon the third anniversary of the date of the
    grant, provided the employee remains continuously employed with
    us, except as otherwise provided in the plan. Shares of our
    common stock will be delivered to the employee upon vesting,
    subject to payment of applicable withholding taxes. RSUs awarded
    to directors for service on our Board of Directors vest on the
    first anniversary of the date of grant, provided in each case
    that the director continues to serve on our Board of Directors
    through the vesting date. Shares of our common stock will be
    delivered to the director upon vesting and are not subject to
    any withholding taxes. The fair value of all RSUs is based on
    the market value of our stock on the date of grant. Compensation
    expense, including the effect of forfeitures, is recognized over
    the applicable service period.

F-44

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes our RSU activity:

Performance-Vested
    Restricted Stock Units (PVRSUs)   

The following table summarizes our PVRSU activity:

F-45

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Grant
    Activity  

In 2009, approximately 325,000 PVRSUs were granted with a
    weighted average grant date fair value of $49.42 per share. The
    number of PVRSUs reflected as granted represents the target
    number of shares that are eligible to vest in full or in part
    and are earned subject to the attainment of certain performance
    criteria established at the beginning of the performance period,
    which ended December 31, 2009. Participants may ultimately
    earn up to 200% of the target number of shares granted in the
    event that the maximum performance thresholds are attained.
    Accordingly, additional PVRSUs may be issued upon final
    determination of the number of awards earned.

Once the earned number of performance-vested awards has been
    determined, the earned PVRSUs will then vest in three equal
    increments on (1) the later of the first anniversary of the
    grant date or the date of results determination; (2) the
    second anniversary of the grant date; and (3) the third
    anniversary of the grant date. The vesting of these awards is
    also subject to the respective employees  continued
    employment. Compensation expense associated with these PVRSUs is
    initially based upon the number of shares expected to vest after
    assessing the probability that certain performance criteria will
    be met and the associated targeted payout level that is
    forecasted will be achieved, net of estimated forfeitures.
    Cumulative adjustments are recorded quarterly to reflect
    subsequent changes in the estimated outcome of
    performance-related conditions until the date results are
    determined.

Restricted
    Stock Awards (RSAs)   

In 2005, we awarded restricted common stock to our employees
    under the 2005 Omnibus Plan and the 2003 Omnibus Plan. The RSAs
    granted under the 2003 Omnibus Plan vested in full on the third
    anniversary of the date of grant for employees that remained
    continuously employed with us through the vesting dates. The
    RSAs granted under the 2005 Omnibus Plan vested at a rate of
    approximately one-third per year over three years on the
    anniversary of the date of grant for employees that remained
    continuously employed with us through the vesting dates.

The fair value of all time-vested RSAs is based on the market
    value of our stock on the date of grant. Compensation expense,
    including the effect of forfeitures, is recognized over the
    applicable service period. All awards of restricted stock were
    fully vested as of December 31, 2008.

Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP)   

The following table summarizes our ESPP activity:

Other   

As part of the employee severance and benefits packages offered
    to employees affected by our recent workforce reduction, we
    agreed to settle certain existing equity awards in cash, which
    resulted in an incremental charge of approximately $6.8 million
    recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010. This charge is
    reflected within our consolidated statement of income as a
    component of our total restructuring charge incurred in 2010.

CEO
    Agreements   

On June 30, 2010, we announced that George A.
    Scangos, Ph.D., was appointed Chief Executive Officer and a
    member of the Board of Directors, effective July 15, 2010.
    Under the terms of his employment agreement with the

F-46

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Company, Dr. Scangos received a grant of 63,165 RSUs and a
    grant of 56,905 MSUs which are included within the total award
    grants described above. Awards made to Dr. Scangos are
    subject to the same terms and conditions as other grants except
    that if Dr. Scangos retires from the Company after reaching
    the age of 65, any outstanding and unvested RSUs and CSPSs, if
    granted, will continue to vest as if Dr. Scangos continued
    to be employed by the Company.

Dr. Scangos succeeded James C. Mullen, who retired as our
    President and Chief Executive Officer on June 8, 2010.
    Under the terms of the transition agreement we entered into with
    Mr. Mullen dated January 4, 2010, we agreed, amongst
    other provisions, to vest all of Mr. Mullen s
    then-unvested equity awards on the date of his retirement and
    allow Mr. Mullen to exercise his vested stock options until
    June 8, 2013 or their expiration, whichever is earlier. The
    modifications to Mr. Mullen s existing stock options,
    RSUs and PVRSUs resulted in an incremental charge of
    approximately $18.6 million, which was recognized evenly
    over the service period from January 4, 2010 to
    June 8, 2010, as per the terms of the transition agreement.

Income
    Tax Expense   

Income before income tax provision and the income tax expense
    consist of the following:

F-47

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Deferred
    Tax Assets and Liabilities   

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are summarized as follows:

Tax
    Rate   

Reconciliation between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate
    and our effective tax rate is summarized as follows:

As of December 31, 2010, we had net operating losses and
    general business credit carry forwards for federal income tax
    purposes of approximately $55.8 million and
    $14.8 million, respectively, which begin to expire in 2020.
    Additionally, for state income tax purposes, we had net
    operating loss carry forwards of approximately
    $184.7 million, which began to expire in 2010. For state
    income tax purposes, we also had research and investment credit
    carry forwards of approximately $56.8 million, of which
    approximately $53.4 million begin to expire in 2011, with
    the remainder having no prescribed expiration date.

In assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets, we
    have considered whether it is more likely than not that some
    portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
    The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent
    upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods
    in which those temporary differences

F-48

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

become deductible. In making this determination, under the
    applicable financial reporting standards, we are allowed to
    consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities,
    projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies.
    Our estimates of future taxable income take into consideration,
    among other items, our estimates of future income tax deductions
    related to the exercise of stock options. Based upon the level
    of historical taxable income and income tax liability and
    projections for future taxable income over the periods in which
    the deferred tax assets are utilizable, we believe it is more
    likely than not that we will realize the benefits of the
    deferred tax assets of our wholly owned subsidiaries. At
    December 31, 2010, we have a partial valuation allowance on
    the deferred tax assets of a variable interest entity which we
    consolidate, based on uncertainties related to the realization
    of some of those assets. In the event that actual results differ
    from our estimates or we adjust our estimates in future periods,
    we may need to establish a valuation allowance, which could
    materially impact our financial position and results of
    operations.

As of December 31, 2010, undistributed foreign earnings of
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    and other basis differences included in consolidated retained
    earnings aggregated approximately $2.4 billion. We intend
    to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in operations outside
    the U.S. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of
    additional tax that might be payable if such earnings were
    remitted to the U.S.

Accounting
    for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of our
    unrecognized tax benefits is summarized as follows:

We and our subsidiaries are routinely examined by various taxing
    authorities. We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal
    jurisdiction, and various states and foreign jurisdictions. With
    few exceptions, we are no longer subject to U.S. federal
    tax examination for years before 2007 or state, local, or
     non-U.S. income 
    tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2001.

Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits as of
    December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 are $26.2 million,
    $42.8 million and $155.1 million (net of the federal
    benefit on state issues), respectively, of unrecognized tax
    benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective income
    tax rate in future periods.

We do not anticipate any significant changes in our positions in
    the next twelve months other than expected settlements which
    have been classified as current liabilities within the
    accompanying balance sheet and the potential resolution of our
    litigation with the Massachusetts Department of Revenue, as
    described below.

We recognize potential interest and penalties accrued related to
    unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. During 2010, we
    recognized net interest expense of $0.7 million. In 2009,
    as we settled certain uncertain tax positions, we recognized a
    net interest benefit of approximately $3.1 million. During
    2008, we recognized approximately $16.1 million in interest
    expense. We have accrued approximately $29.4 million and
    $33.1 million for the payment of interest as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

F-49

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Contingency  

In 2006, the Massachusetts Department of Revenue (DOR) issued a
    Notice of Assessment against Biogen Idec MA Inc. (BIMA), one of
    our wholly-owned subsidiaries, for $38.9 million of
    corporate excise tax for 2002, which includes associated
    interest and penalties. The assessment asserts that the portion
    of sales attributable to Massachusetts (sales factor), the
    computation of BIMA s research and development credits and
    certain deductions claimed by BIMA were not appropriate,
    resulting in unpaid taxes for 2002. In December 2006, we filed
    an abatement application with the DOR seeking abatement for
    2001, 2002 and 2003, which was denied. In July 2007, we filed a
    petition with the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board (the
    Massachusetts ATB) seeking, among other items, abatements of
    corporate excise tax for 2001, 2002 and 2003 and adjustments in
    certain credits and credit carryforwards for 2001, 2002 and
    2003. Issues before the Board include the computation of
    BIMA s sales factor for 2001, 2002 and 2003, computation of
    BIMA s research credits for those same years, and the
    availability of deductions for certain expenses and partnership
    flow-through items. We anticipate that the hearing on our
    petition will take place in the second quarter of 2011.

On June 8, 2010, we received Notices of Assessment from the
    DOR against BIMA for $103.5 million of corporate excise
    tax, including associated interest and penalties, related to our
    2004, 2005 and 2006 tax filings. The asserted basis for these
    assessments is consistent with that for 2002. Including
    associated interest and penalties, assessments related to
    periods under dispute totaled $142.4 million. In August
    2010, we filed an abatement application with the DOR seeking
    abatement for 2004, 2005 and 2006, which the DOR denied in
    December 2010. We intend to appeal the denial to the
    Massachusetts ATB. For all periods under dispute, we believe
    that positions taken in our tax filings are valid and believe
    that we have meritorious defenses in these disputes. We intend
    to contest these matters vigorously. Our tax filings for 2007
    and 2008 have not yet been audited by the DOR but have been
    prepared in a manner consistent with prior filings which may
    result in an assessment for those years. Due to tax law changes
    effective January 1, 2009, the computation and deductions
    at issue in previous tax filings will not be part of our tax
    filings in Massachusetts starting in 2009.

We believe that these assessments do not impact the level of
    liabilities for income tax contingencies. However, there is a
    possibility that we may not prevail in defending all of our
    assertions with the DOR. If these matters are resolved
    unfavorably in the future, the resolution could have a material
    adverse impact on our future effective tax rate and our results
    of operations.

Settlements  

During 2009, the IRS completed its examination of our
    consolidated income tax returns for our fiscal years 2005 and
    2006. We then reached an agreement to pay an amount to settle
    all matters related to the 2005 and 2006 years and resolve
    those matters under appeal related to 2003 and 2004. There are
    no remaining U.S. federal income tax contingencies for the
    periods prior to tax year 2007.

As a result of the 2009 completion of several domestic audits,
    we made payments totaling approximately $13.8 million
    during 2010 and $118.0 million during 2009. In addition, we
    expect that we will make additional payments totaling
    approximately $76.1 million in the first half of 2011
    related to these audits, which have been accrued as of
    December 31, 2010. We also reduced our net unrecognized tax
    benefits during 2009 by approximately $123.5 million, of
    which approximately $28.0 million was recorded as a benefit
    in our consolidated statement of income in 2009.

F-50

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

17.    

Other
    Consolidated Financial Statement Detail  

Supplemental
    Cash Flow Information   

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 is as follows:

In December 2010, upon completion of our acquisition of Panima,
    we recorded $110.9 million of in process research and
    development and $25.6 million of goodwill. In addition, we
    also assumed a contingent consideration liability of
    $81.2 million and a deferred tax liability of
    $23.7 million.

Other
    Income (Expense), Net   

Components of other income (expense), net, are summarized as
    follows:

Other
    Current Assets   

Other current assets consist of the following:

F-51

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Accrued
    Expenses and Other   

Accrued expenses and other consists of the following:

For a discussion of restructuring charges accrued as of
    December 31, 2010, please read Note 3,
     Restructuring  to these consolidated financial statements.

Gain
    on Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment, net   

In 2008, we sold the development rights on a parcel of land in
    Cambridge, MA for $11.4 million in a non-monetary
    transaction and we recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately
    $9.2 million on the sale.

18.    

Investments
    in Variable Interest Entities  

Consolidated
    Variable Interest Entities   

Our consolidated financial statements include the financial
    results of variable interest entities in which we are the
    primary beneficiary.

Investments
    in Joint Ventures  

We consolidate the operations of Biogen Domp  SRL and
    Biogen Domp  Switzerland GmbH, our respective sales
    affiliates in Italy and Switzerland, as we retain the
    contractual power to direct the activities of these entities
    which most significantly and directly impact their economic
    performance. The activity of each of these joint ventures is
    significant to our overall operations. The assets of these joint
    ventures are restricted, from the standpoint of Biogen Idec, in
    that they are not available for our general business use outside
    the context of each joint venture. The holders of the
    liabilities of each joint venture, including the credit line
    from Domp  have no recourse to Biogen Idec.

Included within our consolidated balance sheet at
    December 31, 2010 are total joint venture assets and
    liabilities of $159.2 million and $63.3 million,
    respectively. The joint venture s most significant assets
    are accounts receivable from the ordinary course of business of
    $124.2 million.

Other than the line of credit from us and Domp 
    Farmaceutici SpA to Biogen-Domp  SRL, as described in
    Note 11,  Indebtedness , we have provided no financing
    to these joint ventures. In addition, Biogen-Domp  SRL has
    an operating lease for office space as well as a contract for
    the provision of administrative services with Domp 
    Farmaceutici SpA.

F-52

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Knopp  

In August 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Knopp
    Neurosciences, Inc. (Knopp), a subsidiary of Knopp Holdings,
    LLC, for the development, manufacture and commercialization of
    dexpramipexole, an orally administered small molecule in
    clinical development for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral
    sclerosis (ALS). Under the terms of the license agreement we
    made a $26.4 million upfront payment and agreed to pay
    Knopp up to an additional $265.0 million in development and
    sales-based milestone payments, as well as royalties on future
    commercial sales. In exchange, we will be responsible for all
    development activities and, if successful, we will also be
    responsible for the manufacture and global commercialization of
    dexpramipexole. Royalties are payable to Knopp on a country by
    country basis until the later of 10 years from the first
    commercial sale of a dexpramipexole product or the loss of
    exclusivity in such country. In addition, we also purchased
    30.0% of the Class B common shares of Knopp for
    $60.0 million.

Due to the terms of the license agreement with Knopp, we have
    determined that we are the primary beneficiary of Knopp as we
    have the power to direct the activities that most significantly
    impact Knopp s economic performance. As such, we
    consolidate the results of Knopp. The assets and liabilities of
    Knopp are not significant to our financial position or results
    of operations.

As the license agreement with Knopp only gives us access to the
    underlying intellectual property of dexpramipexole and we did
    not acquire any employees or other processes, we have determined
    that this transaction was an acquisition of an asset rather than
    a business. Therefore, we have recorded an IPR D charge of
    approximately $205.0 million upon the initial consolidation
    of Knopp, which is included within our consolidated statement of
    income for 2010. The amount allocated to IPR D represents
    the fair value of the intellectual property of Knopp, which as
    of the effective date of the agreement, had not reached
    technological feasibility and had no alternative future use.
    This charge was determined using internal models based on
    projected revenues and development costs and adjusted for
    industry-specific probabilities of success. Estimated revenues
    from dexpramipexole are expected to be recognized beginning in
    2014. A discount rate of 14% was used in the valuation of this
    asset, which we believe to be commensurate with the stage of
    development and level of risk associated with the underlying
    biologic compound. Within the hierarchy of fair value
    measurements, this IPR D charge is classified as having a
    Level 3 fair value. We have attributed approximately
    $145.0 million of the IPR D charge to the
    noncontrolling interest.

Future development and sales-based milestone payments will be
    reflected within our consolidated statements of income as a
    charge to the noncontrolling interest, net of tax, when such
    milestones are achieved. Although we have assumed responsibility
    for the development of dexpramipexole, we may also be required
    to reimburse certain Knopp expenses directly attributable to the
    license agreement. Any additional amounts incurred by Knopp that
    we reimburse will be reflected within total cost and expenses in
    our consolidated statements of income.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration, excluding
    the initial accounting for the consolidation of Knopp, is as
    follows:

For the Years Ended December 31, 

(In millions) 

2010 

2009 

2008 

Total upfront payments made to Knopp

$

26.4

$

$

Total development expense incurred by the collaboration
    excluding upfront and milestone payments

$

5.0

$

$

Biogen Idec s share of expense reflected within our
    consolidated statements of income

$

31.4

$

$

Collaboration expense attributed to noncontrolling interests,
    net of tax

$

$

$

F-53

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Neurimmune
    SubOne AG   

In 2007, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Neurimmune SubOne AG (Neurimmune), a subsidiary of Neurimmune
    AG, for the development and commercialization of antibodies for
    the treatment of Alzheimer s disease. Neurimmune conducts
    research to identify potential therapeutic antibodies and we are
    responsible for the development, manufacturing and
    commercialization of all products. Based upon our current
    development plans, we may pay Neurimmune up to
    $360.0 million in remaining milestone payments, as well as
    royalties on sales of any resulting commercial products.

We have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of
    Neurimmune because we have the power through the collaboration
    to direct the activities that most significantly impact
    SubOne s economic performance and are required to
    fund 100% of the research and development costs incurred in
    support of the collaboration agreement.

The assets and liabilities of Neurimmune are not significant as
    it is a research and development organization. Amounts that are
    incurred by Neurimmune for research and development expenses
    incurred in support of the collaboration that we reimburse are
    reflected in research and development expense in our
    consolidated statements of income. Future milestone payments
    will be reflected within our consolidated statements of income
    as a charge to the noncontrolling interest, net of tax, when
    such milestones are achieved.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expenses expected to be incurred by us, is as
    follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2010 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Neurimmune

$

20.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec excluding
    upfront and milestone payments

$

31.0

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of the lead compound

$

539.5

We have provided no financing to Neurimmune other than
    previously contractually required amounts.

In December 2010, we completed our acquisition of Panima from
    Neurimmune AG, a related party to this collaboration. For a more
    detailed description of this transaction, please read
    Note 2,  Acquisitions  to these consolidated financial
    statements.

Cardiokine   

On October 28, 2010, we agreed to terminate our
    collaboration with Cardiokine Biopharma, LLC (Cardiokine), a
    subsidiary of Cardiokine Inc., for the development of lixivaptan
    effective November 1, 2010. Under the terms of the
    agreement, we have funded our share of the development costs
    through the effective date and made a

F-54

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

final payment of $25.0 million to Cardiokine, the costs of
    which have been reflected within noncontrolling interest. The
    termination triggered the return of all rights to lixivaptan to
    Cardiokine.

We had previously determined that we were the primary
    beneficiary of Cardiokine because we had the power through the
    collaboration to direct the activities that most significantly
    impact Cardiokine s economic performance and were required
    to fund 90% of the development costs. Upon terminating our
    development interest, we have ceased consolidating the results
    of Cardiokine. As such, we consolidated the results of
    Cardiokine through October 31, 2010. The assets and
    liabilities of Cardiokine were not significant as it is a
    research and development organization. Amounts that are incurred
    by Cardiokine for research and development expense incurred in
    support of the collaboration that we reimbursed are reflected in
    research and development expense in our consolidated statements
    of income.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

In addition to the $25.0 million termination payment we
    made in November 2010, we have made upfront and milestone
    payments to Cardiokine totaling approximately $70.0 million
    since the inception of this collaboration. Additionally,
    excluding termination, upfront and milestone payments, we have
    incurred development expense totaling approximately
    $173.9 million under this collaboration agreement.

Unconsolidated
    Variable Interest Entities   

We have relationships with other variable interest entities
    which we do not consolidate as we lack the power to direct the
    activities that significantly impact the economic success of
    these entities. These relationships include investments in
    certain biotechnology companies and research collaboration
    agreements. For additional information related to our
    significant collaboration arrangements with unconsolidated
    variable interest entities, please read Note 19,
     Collaborations  to these consolidated financial statements.

As of December 31, 2010 the total carrying value of our
    investments in biotechnology companies that we have determined
    to be variable interest entities is $22.9 million. Our
    maximum exposure to loss related to these variable interest
    entities is limited to the carrying value of our investments.

We have entered into research collaborations with certain
    variable interest entities where we are required to share or
    fund certain development activities. These development
    activities are included in research and development expense
    within our consolidated statements of income, as they are
    incurred. Depending on the collaborative arrangement, we may
    record funding receivables or payable balances with our
    partners, based on the nature of the cost-sharing mechanism and
    activity within the collaboration. As of December 31, 2010,
    we have no significant receivables or payables related to cost
    sharing arrangements with unconsolidated variable interest
    entities.

We have provided no financing to these variable interest
    entities other than previously contractually required amounts.

In connection with our business strategy, we have entered into
    various collaboration agreements which provide us with rights to
    develop, produce and market products using certain know-how,
    technology and patent rights

F-55

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

maintained by our collaborative partners. Terms of the various
    collaboration agreements may require us to make milestone
    payments upon the achievement of certain product research and
    development objectives and pay royalties on future sales, if
    any, of commercial products resulting from the collaboration.

Genentech
    (Roche Group)   

We collaborate with Genentech, Inc., a wholly-owned member of
    the Roche Group, on the development and commercialization of
    RITUXAN and other anti-CD20 products. Our collaboration rights
    are limited to the U.S. and our rights to products licensed
    by Genentech are dependent upon Genentech s underlying
    license rights.

Our collaboration agreement does not have a fixed term and will
    continue in effect until we mutually agree to terminate the
    collaboration, except that if we undergo a change in control, as
    defined in the collaboration agreement, Genentech has the right
    to present an offer to buy the rights to RITUXAN and we must
    either accept Genentech s offer or purchase
    Genentech s rights on the same terms as its offer.
    Genentech will also be deemed concurrently to have purchased our
    rights to the other anti-CD20 products now in development in
    exchange for a royalty. Our collaboration with Genentech was
    created through a contractual arrangement and not through a
    joint venture or other legal entity.

In October 2010, we amended our collaboration agreement with
    Genentech with regard to the development of ocrelizumab and
    agreed to terms for the development of GA101, as summarized
    below. This amendment did not have an impact on our share of the
    co-promotion operating profits of RITUXAN in 2010.

Ocrelizumab   

Genentech is now solely responsible for the further development
    and commercialization of ocrelizumab and funding future costs.
    Genentech cannot develop ocrelizumab in CLL, NHL or RA without
    our consent. We will receive tiered royalties between 13.5% and
    24% on U.S. sales of ocrelizumab. Commercialization of
    ocrelizumab will not impact the percentage of the co-promotion
    profits we receive for RITUXAN.

GA101   

We will pay 35% of the development and commercialization
    expenses of GA101 and will receive between 35% and 39% of the
    profits of GA101 based upon the achievement of certain sales
    milestones. Before the October 2010 amendment and restatement of
    our collaboration agreement, we had paid 30% of the GA101
    development expenses. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we paid
    approximately $10.0 million to compensate Genentech for our
    increased share of such previously incurred expenses.
    Commercialization of GA101 will impact our percentage of the
    co-promotion profits for RITUXAN, as summarized in the table
    below.

RITUXAN   

While Genentech is responsible for the worldwide manufacturing
    of RITUXAN, development and commercialization rights and
    responsibilities under this collaboration are divided as follows:

U.S.    

We share with Genentech co-exclusive rights to develop,
    commercialize and market RITUXAN in the U.S. For 2010, 2009 and
    2008, we contributed to the marketing and continued development
    of RITUXAN by maintaining a limited sales force dedicated to
    RITUXAN and performing limited development activity. However,
    during the fourth quarter of 2010, we agreed with Genentech to
    eliminate our current RITUXAN oncology and rheumatology sales
    force, with Genentech assuming sole responsibility for the
    U.S. sales and marketing of RITUXAN. For 2010, 2009 and
    2008, we were reimbursed $58.3 million, $65.6 million
    and $59.7 million, respectively, for sales and marketing
    activities performed in support of RITUXAN.

F-56

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Canada    

We and Genentech have assigned our rights under our
    collaboration agreement with respect to Canada to Roche.

Outside
    the U.S. and Canada    

We have granted Genentech exclusive rights to develop,
    commercialize and market RITUXAN outside the U.S. and
    Canada. Under the terms of separate sublicense agreements
    between Genentech and Roche, development and commercialization
    of RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada is the
    responsibility of Roche and its sublicensees. We do not have any
    direct contractual arrangements with Roche or it sublicensees.

Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, we will be paid
    royalties between 10% and 12% on sales of RITUXAN outside the
    U.S. and Canada, with the royalty period lasting
    11 years from the first commercial sale of RITUXAN on a
     country-by-country 
    basis. The royalty period for sales of RITUXAN has expired in
    the majority of European countries. For substantially all of the
    remaining royalty-bearing sales of RITUXAN in the rest of world,
    the royalty period will expire through 2012.

Co-promotion
    Profit-sharing Formula   

Our current pretax co-promotion profit-sharing formula for
    RITUXAN, which resets annually, provides for a 30% share of
    co-promotion profits on the first $50.0 million of
    co-promotion operating profit with our share increasing to 40%
    if co-promotion operating profits exceed $50.0 million.
    Under the amended agreement, our share of the co-promotion
    profits for RITUXAN will change, as summarized in the table
    below, upon the following events:

First New Product FDA Approval :  the FDA s
    first approval of an anti-CD20 product other than ocrelizumab
    and GA101 that is acquired or developed by Genentech and is
    subject to the collaboration agreement (New Product).

First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval :  the FDA s
    first approval of GA101 in an indication other than CLL.

GA101 CLL Sales Trigger :  the first day of the
    quarter after U.S. gross sales of GA101 in any consecutive
    12 month period reach $500.0 million.

Our share of the co-promotion operating profits for RITUXAN is
    calculated as follows:

F-57

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

First GA101 Threshold Date  means the earlier of
    (1) the date of the First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval if
    U.S. gross sales of GA101 for the preceding consecutive
    12 month period were at least $150.0 million or
    (2) the first day of the calendar quarter after the date of
    the First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval that U.S. gross sales of
    GA101 within any consecutive 12 month period have reached
    $150.0 million. 

Second GA101 Threshold Date  means the first day of the
    calendar quarter after U.S. gross sales of GA101 within any
    consecutive 12 month period have reached
    $500.0 million. 

First Threshold Date  means the earlier of (1) the
    GA101 CLL Sales Trigger, (2) the Second GA101 Threshold
    Date and (3) the later of (a) the first date that U.S.
    gross sales of New Products in any calendar year reach
    $150.0 million and (b) January 1 of the calendar year
    following the calendar year in which the First New Product FDA
    Approval occurs if gross sales of New Products reached
    $150.0 million within the same calendar year in which the
    First New Product FDA Approval occurred. 

Second Threshold Date  means the later of (1) the
    first date that U.S. gross sales of New Products in any calendar
    year reach $350.0 million and (2) January 1 of the
    calendar year following the calendar year in which the First
    Threshold Date occurs. 

Our collaboration agreement also provides that we will be paid
    low single digit royalties on sales outside the U.S. and Canada
    of new anti-CD20 products developed or licensed by Genentech or
    controlled by us. These royalties will be payable for a period
    of 11 years from the first commercial sale of such products
    on a
     country-by-country 
    basis.

Unconsolidated
    Joint Business Revenues   

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consists of
    (1) our share of pretax co-promotion profits in the
    U.S. (2) reimbursement of our selling and development
    expenses in the U.S.; and (3) revenue on sales of RITUXAN
    in the rest of world, which consist of our share of pretax
    co-promotion profits in Canada and royalty revenue on sales of
    RITUXAN outside the U.S. and Canada by Roche, and its
    sublicensees. Pre-tax co-promotion profits are calculated and
    paid to us by Genentech in the U.S. and by Roche in Canada.
    Pre-tax co-promotion profits consist of U.S. and Canadian
    sales of RITUXAN to third-party customers net of discounts and
    allowances less the cost to manufacture RITUXAN, third-party
    royalty expenses, distribution, selling, and marketing expenses,
    and joint development expenses incurred by Genentech, Roche and
    us. We record our share of the pretax co-promotion profits in
    Canada and royalty revenues on sales of RITUXAN outside the U.S.
    on a cash basis. Additionally, our share of the pretax
    co-promotion profits in the U.S. includes estimates supplied by
    Genentech. Actual results may ultimately differ from our
    estimates.

Revenues from unconsolidated joint business consist of the
    following:

In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the 40% co-promotion profit-sharing
    threshold was met during the first quarter.

Currently, we record our share of the expenses incurred by the
    collaboration for the development of anti-CD20 products in
    research and development expense in our consolidated statements
    of income. We incurred $50.6 million, $62.5 million
    and $43.6 million in development expense for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.
    After an anti-CD20 product is approved, we will record our share
    of the development expenses related to

F-58

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

that product as a reduction of our share of pretax co-promotion
    profits in revenues from unconsolidated joint business. As a
    result of the October 2010 amendment of our collaboration
    agreement with Genentech, we are no longer  responsible for any
    development costs for ocrelizumab.

Elan   

We collaborate with Elan on the development, manufacture and
    commercialization of TYSABRI. Under the terms of our
    collaboration agreement, we manufacture TYSABRI and collaborate
    with Elan on the product s marketing, commercial
    distribution and ongoing development activities. The agreement
    is designed to effect an equal sharing of profits and losses
    generated by the activities of our collaboration. Under the
    agreement, however, once sales of TYSABRI exceeded specific
    thresholds, Elan was required to make milestone payments to us
    in order to continue sharing equally in the collaboration s
    results. As of December 31, 2010, Elan has made milestone
    payments to us of $75.0 million in the third quarter of
    2008 and $50.0 million in the first quarter of 2009. These
    amounts were recorded as deferred revenue upon receipt and are
    recognized as revenue in our consolidated statements of income
    based on the ratio of units shipped in the current period over
    the total units expected to be shipped over the remaining term
    of the collaboration. No additional milestone payments are
    required under the agreement to maintain the current profit
    sharing split. The term of our collaboration agreement extends
    until November 2019. Each of Biogen Idec and Elan has the option
    to buy the other party s rights to TYSABRI upon expiration
    of the term or if the other party undergoes a change of control
    (as defined in the collaboration agreement). In addition, each
    of Biogen Idec and Elan can terminate the agreement for
    convenience or material breach by the other party, in which
    case, among other things, certain licenses, regulatory approvals
    and other rights related to the manufacture, sale and
    development of TYSABRI are required to be transferred to the
    party that is not terminating for convenience or is not in
    material breach of the agreement.

In the U.S., we sell TYSABRI to Elan who sells the product to
    third party distributors. Our sales price to Elan in the
    U.S. is set prior to the beginning of each quarterly period
    to effect an approximate equal sharing of the gross margin
    between Elan and us. We recognize revenue for sales in the
    U.S. of TYSABRI upon Elan s shipment of the product to
    the third party distributors, at which time all revenue
    recognition criteria have been met. As of December 31, 2010
    and 2009, we had deferred revenue of $20.8 million and
    $23.6 million, respectively, for shipments to Elan that
    remained in Elan s ending inventory pending shipment of the
    product to the third party distributors. We incur manufacturing
    and distribution costs, research and development expenses,
    commercial expenses, and general and administrative expenses
    related to TYSABRI. We record these expenses to their respective
    line items within our consolidated statements of income when
    they are incurred. Research and development and sales and
    marketing expenses are shared equally with Elan and the
    reimbursement of these expenses is recorded as reductions of the
    respective expense categories. During the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded
    $49.8 million, $25.3 million and $23.6 million,
    respectively, as reductions of research and development expense
    for reimbursements from Elan. In addition, for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded
    $68.5 million, $62.5 million and $33.7 million,
    respectively, as reductions of selling, general and
    administrative expense for reimbursements from Elan.

In the rest of world, we are responsible for distributing
    TYSABRI to customers and are primarily responsible for all
    operating activities. Generally, we recognize revenue for sales
    of TYSABRI in the rest of world at the time of product delivery
    to our customers. Payments are made to Elan for their share of
    the rest of world net operating profits to effect an equal
    sharing of collaboration operating profit. These payments also
    include the reimbursement for our portion of third-party
    royalties that Elan pays on behalf of the collaboration relating
    to rest of world sales. As rest of world sales of TYSABRI
    increase, our collaboration profit sharing expense is expected
    to increase. These amounts are reflected in the collaboration
    profit sharing line in our consolidated statements of income.
    For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    $258.1 million, $215.9 million and
    $136.0 million, respectively, was reflected in the
    collaboration profit sharing line for our collaboration with
    Elan.

F-59

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Acorda   

On June 30, 2009, we entered into a collaboration and
    license agreement with Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. (Acorda) to
    develop and commercialize products containing fampridine in
    markets outside the U.S. The transaction represents a
    sublicensing of an existing license agreement between Acorda and
    Elan. The parties have also entered into a related supply
    agreement. The $110.0 million upfront payment made on
    July 1, 2009 to Acorda was recorded as research and
    development expense during the second quarter 2009 as the
    product candidate had not received regulatory approval.
    Fampridine was approved in the U.S. on January 22,
    2010 under the trade name AMPYRA (dalfampridine) Extended
    Release Tablets, 10mg. AMPYRA is indicated to improve walking in
    patients with MS. This was demonstrated by an increase in
    walking speed. Acorda is developing and marketing AMPYRA in the
    U.S.

Under the terms of the agreement, we will commercialize FAMPYRA
    and any aminopyridine products developed in our territory and
    will also have responsibility for regulatory activities and
    future clinical development of FAMPYRA in those markets. We may
    incur additional milestone payments of up to $400.0 million
    based upon the successful achievement of regulatory and
    commercial sales milestones. We will also make tiered royalty
    payments to Acorda on sales outside of the U.S.

Elan will continue to manufacture commercial supply of FAMPYRA
    based upon its existing supply agreement with Acorda. Under the
    existing agreements with Elan, Acorda will pay Elan 7% of the
    upfront and milestone payments that Acorda receives from us.

In January 2011, the EMA s Committee for Medicinal Products
    for Human Use (CHMP) issued a negative opinion recommending
    against approval of FAMPYRA to improve walking ability in adult
    patients with multiple sclerosis in the European Union. We
    intend to appeal this opinion and request a re-examination of
    the decision by the CHMP. We also received a Notice of
    Deficiency from Health Canada for our application to sell
    FAMPYRA in Canada.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

(In millions) 

As of December 31, 2010 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Acorda

$

110.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec, excluding
    upfront and milestone payments

$

27.5

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of FAMPYRA

$

89.0

Swedish
    Orphan Biovitrum   

We have a collaboration agreement with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum
    (Biovitrum) to jointly develop and commercialize long-lasting
    recombinant Factor VIII and Factor IX for the treatment of
    hemophilia. In February 2010, we restructured our collaboration
    agreement with Biovitrum and assumed full development
    responsibilities and costs, as well as manufacturing rights for
    the Factor VIII and Factor IX programs in exchange for increased
    marketing rights for rest of world territories which was
    previously shared between the two companies. These

F-60

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

territories are in addition to our existing commercial rights in
    North America. Biovitrum will retain commercial rights in
    Europe, Russia, Turkey and the Middle East.

Amounts incurred by us in the development of long-lasting
    recombinant Factor VIII and Factor IX are reflected as research
    and development expense in our consolidated statements of
    income, reduced by amounts due from Biovitrum. A summary of
    collective activity related to these programs is as follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of  

December 31,  

(In millions) 

2010 

Total upfront and milestone payments received from Biovitrum

$

5.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec excluding
    upfront and milestone payments

$

133.1

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of Factors VIII and IX

$

314.3

Abbott
    Biotherapeutics Corp (formerly Facet Biotech)   

We have a collaboration agreement with Abbott Biotherapeutics
    Corp (Abbott) aimed at advancing the development and
    commercialization of daclizumab in MS. Under the agreement,
    development and commercialization costs and profits are shared
    equally. We may incur up to an additional $180.0 million of
    payments upon achievement of development and commercial
    milestones.

In January 2010, we agreed with our collaborator, Abbott, to
    assume the manufacture of daclizumab and began the process of
    transferring from Abbott the manufacturing technology necessary
    for us to manufacture daclizumab.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2010 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Abbott

$

80.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec excluding
    upfront and milestone payments

$

159.9

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of current indications of daclizumab

$

456.0

F-61

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

UCB   

In June 2009, UCB, S.A. (UCB) and we announced the
    discontinuation of a Phase 2 clinical trial of MS patients for
    this collaboration s only product candidate due to the
    absence of clinically relevant efficacy. Since the inception of
    our collaboration agreement with UCB, we have incurred a total
    of $102.6 million in research and development expenses for
    this product candidate.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2010 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to UCB

$

30.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec excluding
    upfront and milestone payments

$

72.6

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of the compound in this indication

$

Vernalis   

We have a collaboration agreement with Vernalis plc (Vernalis)
    aimed at advancing the development and commercialization of an
    adenosine A2a receptor antagonist for treatment of
    Parkinson s disease. Under the agreement, we received
    exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize the
    compound. We are responsible for funding all development costs
    and may incur up to an additional $85.0 million of
    milestone payments upon achievement of certain objectives, as
    well as royalties on commercial sales.

A summary of activity related to this collaboration is as
    follows:

A summary of activity related to this collaboration since
    inception, along with an estimate of additional future
    development expense expected to be incurred by us, is as follows:

As of 

December 31, 

(In millions) 

2010 

Total upfront and milestone payments made to Vernalis

$

13.0

Total development expense incurred by Biogen Idec Inc.,
    excluding upfront and milestone payments

$

85.9

Estimate of additional amounts to be incurred by us in
    development of the compound in this indication

$

323.5

F-62

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our investment in
    Vernalis had a fair value of approximately $0.2 million and
    $0.5 million, respectively.

In 2006, the Massachusetts Department of Revenue (DOR) issued a
    Notice of Assessment against BIMA for $38.9 million of
    corporate excise tax for 2002, which includes associated
    interest and penalties. The assessment asserts that the portion
    of sales attributable to Massachusetts (sales factor), the
    computation of BIMA s research and development credits and
    certain deductions claimed by BIMA were not appropriate,
    resulting in unpaid taxes for 2002. On December 6, 2006, we
    filed an abatement application with the DOR seeking abatements
    for 2001, 2002 and 2003. The abatement application was denied on
    July 24, 2007. On July 25, 2007, we filed a petition
    with the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board (the Massachusetts
    ATB) seeking, among other items, abatements of corporate excise
    tax for 2001, 2002 and 2003 and adjustments in certain credits
    and credit carry forwards for 2001, 2002 and 2003. Issues before
    the Board include the computation of BIMA s sales factor
    for 2001, 2002 and 2003, computation of BIMA s research
    credits for those same years, and the availability of deductions
    for certain expenses and partnership flow-through items. We
    anticipate that the hearing on our petition will take place in
    the second quarter of 2011.

On June 8, 2010, we received Notices of Assessment from the
    DOR against BIMA for $103.5 million of corporate excise
    tax, including associated interest and penalties, related to our
    2004, 2005 and 2006 tax filings. The asserted basis for these
    assessments is consistent with that for 2002. On August 5,
    2010, we filed an abatement application with the DOR seeking
    abatements for 2004, 2005, and 2006, which the DOR denied on
    December 15, 2010. We intend to appeal the denial to the
    Massachusetts ATB. For all periods under dispute, we believe
    that positions taken in our tax filings are valid and believe
    that we have meritorious defenses in these disputes. We intend
    to contest these matters vigorously.

On October 24, 2008, Hoechst GmbH filed with the ICC
    International Court of Arbitration (Paris) a request for
    arbitration against Genentech, relating to a terminated license
    agreement (the  Hoescht License ) between
    Hoechst s predecessor and Genentech granting Genentech
    certain rights with respect to U.S. Patents 5,849,522
    ( 522 patent) and 6,218,140 ( 140 patent) and related
    patents outside the U.S. Although we are not a party to the
    arbitration, any damages awarded to Hoechst based on
    U.S. net sales of RITUXAN may be a cost charged to our
    collaboration with Genentech. The license was entered as of
    January 1, 1991 and was terminated by Genentech on
    October 27, 2008. We understand that Hoechst seeks payment
    of royalties on sales of Genentech products, including RITUXAN,
    damages for breach of contract, and other relief. We estimate,
    based solely on our understanding of Hoechst s claims and
    not on any evaluation of the merits of the claims, that
    royalties and interest, if awarded in connection with
    U.S. net sales of RITUXAN, could total $100 million
    based on the 0.5% royalty rate set forth in the agreement and
    historical RITUXAN net sales.

On October 27, 2008, Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH
    (Sanofi), successor to Hoescht, filed suit against Genentech and
    Biogen Idec in federal court in Texas (E.D. Tex.) (Texas Action)
    claiming that RITUXAN and certain other Genentech products
    infringe the  522 patent and the  140 patent. The
    patents are due to expire in December 2015. Sanofi seeks
    preliminary and permanent injunctions, compensatory and
    exemplary damages, and other relief. The same day Genentech and
    Biogen Idec filed a complaint against Sanofi in federal court in
    California (N.D. Cal.) (California Action) seeking a declaratory
    judgment that RITUXAN and other Genentech products do not
    infringe the  522 patent or the  140 patent and a
    declaratory judgment that those patents are invalid. The Texas
    Action was ordered transferred to the federal court in the
    Northern District of California and consolidated with the
    California Action and we refer to the two actions together as
    the Consolidated Actions. We have not formed an opinion that an
    unfavorable outcome in the Consolidated Actions is either
     probable  or  remote.  We believe that we
    have good and valid defenses and are vigorously defending
    against the allegations. In the event that we and Genentech are
    found liable we estimate that the range of any potential loss
    could extend to a royalty of up to 0.5% of net sales of RITUXAN,
    based on, among other things, the royalty rate set forth in the
    terminated Hoescht License

F-63

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

and an analysis of royalty rates charged for comparable
    technologies. We believe that Sanofi would seek a substantially
    higher royalty rate, and we will continue to vigorously oppose
    its claims and position. One of the issues to be resolved in the
    California Action is whether any award of reasonable royalty
    damages would begin running from October 27, 2008, when
    Genentech terminated the Hoescht License, or from
    October 27, 2002, six years before Sanofi filed the Texas
    Action, the statutory limitations period for damages in patent
    cases. In the event that Genentech is ordered in the arbitration
    described above to pay royalties on RITUXAN sales under the
    Hoescht License up to the date of the termination of the Hoescht
    License (October 27, 2008), we do not anticipate that
    either we or Genentech would be subject to any damages award in
    the California Action for any period before October 27,
    2008. Any damages awarded to Sanofi based on U.S. net sales
    of RITUXAN may be a cost charged to our collaboration with
    Genentech.

On September 15, 2009, we were issued U.S. patent
    No. 7,588,755 ( 755 Patent), which claims the use of
    beta interferon for immunomodulation or treating a viral
    condition, viral disease, cancers or tumors. This patent, which
    expires in September 2026, covers, among other things, the
    treatment of MS with our product AVONEX. On May 27, 2010,
    Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Bayer) filed a lawsuit
    against us in federal court in the District of New Jersey
    seeking a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity and
    noninfringement and seeking monetary relief in the form of
    attorneys  fees, costs and expenses. On May 28, 2010,
    BIMA filed a lawsuit in federal court in the District of New
    Jersey alleging infringement of the  755 Patent by EMD
    Serono, Inc. (manufacturer, marketer and seller of REBIF),
    Pfizer, Inc. (co-marketer of REBIF), Bayer (manufacturer,
    marketer and seller of BETASERON and manufacturer of EXTAVIA),
    and Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp. (marketer and seller of
    EXTAVIA) and seeking monetary damages, including lost profits
    and royalties. The court has consolidated the two lawsuits. On
    August 16, 2010, BIMA amended its complaint to add Ares
    Trading S.A. (Ares), an affiliate of EMD Serono, as a defendant,
    and to seek a declaratory judgment that a purported
     nonsuit and option agreement  between Ares and BIMA
    dated October 12, 2000, that purports to provide that Ares
    will have an option to obtain a license to the  755 Patent,
    is not a valid and enforceable agreement or, alternatively, has
    been revoked
     and/or 
    terminated by the actions of Ares or its affiliates. Ares has
    answered the amended complaint and has moved to compel
    arbitration of the claims against it, which we have opposed, and
    Ares  motion is pending. Bayer, Pfizer, Novartis and EMD
    Serono have all filed counterclaims seeking declaratory
    judgments of patent invalidity and noninfringement, and seeking
    monetary relief in the form of costs and attorneys  fees,
    and EMD Serono has filed a counterclaim seeking a declaratory
    judgment that the  755 Patent is unenforceable based on
    alleged inequitable conduct.

On March 23, 2010, we and Genentech were issued
    U.S. Patent No. 7,682,612 ( 612 patent) relating
    to a method of treating CLL using an anti-CD20 antibody. The
    patent which expires in November 2019 covers, among other
    things, the treatment of CLL with RITUXAN. On March 23,
    2010, we filed a lawsuit in federal court in the Southern
    District of California against Glaxo Group Limited and
    GlaxoSmithKline LLC (collectively, GSK) alleging infringement of
    that patent based upon GSK s manufacture, marketing and
    sale, offer to sell, and importation of ARZERRA. We seek
    damages, including a royalty and lost profits, and injunctive
    relief. GSK has filed a counterclaim seeking a declaratory
    judgment of patent invalidity, noninfringement,
    unenforceability, and inequitable conduct, and seeking monetary
    relief in the form of costs and attorneys  fees.

On January 26, 2011, Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics,
    Inc. (Novartis V D) filed suit against us in federal
    district court in Delaware, alleging that TYSABRI infringes
    U.S. Patent No. 5,688,688 ( Vector for Expression
    of a Polypeptide in a Mammalian Cell ), which was granted
    in November 1997 and expires in November 2014. Novartis V D
    seeks a declaration of infringement, a finding of willful
    infringement, compensatory damages, treble damages, interest,
    costs and attorneys  fees. We have not formed an opinion
    that an unfavorable outcome is either  probable  or
     remote , and do not express an opinion at this time
    as to the likely outcome or the magnitude or range of any
    potential loss. We believe that we have good and valid defenses
    to the complaint and will vigorously defend against it.

We are also involved in product liability claims and other legal
    proceedings generally incidental to our normal business
    activities. While the outcome of any of these proceedings cannot
    be accurately predicted, we do not

F-64

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

believe the ultimate resolution of any of these existing matters
    would have a material adverse effect on our business or
    financial conditions.

21.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Leases   

We rent laboratory and office space and certain equipment under
    non-cancelable operating leases. These lease agreements contain
    various clauses for renewal at our option and, in certain cases,
    escalation clauses typically linked to rates of inflation. In
    addition to rent, the leases may require us to pay additional
    amounts for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating
    expenses. Amounts reflected within the table below details
    future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating
    leases as of December 31 for each of the years presented. Rental
    expense under these leases, which terminate at various dates
    through 2025, amounted to $44.8 million in 2010,
    $36.4 million in 2009 and $36.0 million in 2008.

As of December 31, 2010, minimum rental commitments under
    non-cancelable leases, net of income from subleases, for each of
    the next five years and total thereafter were as follows:

Financing
    Arrangement   

As described in Note 10  Property, Plant  
    Equipment  to these consolidated financial statements, on
    October 1, 2010, we sold the San Diego facility and
    agreed to lease back the facility for a period of
    15 months. We have accounted for these transactions as a
    financing arrangement and recorded an obligation of
    $127.0 million on that date. As of December 31, 2010,
    our remaining obligation was $125.9 million, which is
    reflected as a component of current portion of notes payable,
    line of credit and other financing arrangements within our
    consolidated balance sheet.

In January 2011, we entered into an agreement to terminate our
    15 month lease of the San Diego facility. Under the terms
    of this agreement, we will continue to make monthly rental
    payments through August 31, 2011 and will have no
    continuing involvement or remaining obligation after that date.
    Once the lease arrangement has concluded we will account for the
    San Diego facility as a sale of property. We are scheduled to
    incur debt service payments and interest totaling approximately
    $6.9 million over the term of the revised leaseback period.

Other
    Funding Commitments   

As of December 31, 2010, we have funding commitments of up
    to approximately $19.0 million as part of our investment in
    biotechnology oriented venture capital funds.

As of December 31, 2010, we have several ongoing clinical
    studies in various clinical trial stages. Our most significant
    clinical trial expenditures are to clinical research
    organizations (CROs). The contracts with CROs are generally
    cancellable, with notice, at our option. We have recorded
    accrued expenses of $16.1 million on our consolidated
    balance sheet for expenditures incurred by CROs as of
    December 31, 2010. We have approximately
    $326.9 million in cancellable future commitments based on
    existing CRO contracts as of December 31, 2010.

Contingent
    Milestone Payments   

Based on our development plans as of December 31, 2010, we
    have committed to make potential future milestone payments to
    third parties of up to approximately $1,334.3 million as
    part of our various collaborations, including licensing and
    development programs. Payments under these agreements generally
    become due and

F-65

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

payable only upon achievement of certain development, regulatory
    or commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these
    milestones had not occurred as of December 31, 2010, such
    contingencies have not been recorded in our financial statements.

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we did not have
    significant liabilities recorded for guarantees.

We enter into indemnification provisions under our agreements
    with other companies in the ordinary course of business,
    typically with business partners, contractors, clinical sites
    and customers. Under these provisions, we generally indemnify
    and hold harmless the indemnified party for losses suffered or
    incurred by the indemnified party as a result of our activities.
    These indemnification provisions generally survive termination
    of the underlying agreement. The maximum potential amount of
    future payments we could be required to make under these
    indemnification provisions is unlimited. However, to date we
    have not incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle
    claims related to these indemnification provisions. As a result,
    the estimated fair value of these agreements is minimal.
    Accordingly, we have no liabilities recorded for these
    agreements as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.

23.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

401(k)
    Savings Plan   

We maintain a 401(k) Savings Plan which is available to
    substantially all regular employees in the U.S. over the
    age of 21. Participants may make voluntary contributions. We
    make matching contributions according to the 401(k) Savings
    Plan s matching formula. Beginning in January 2008, all
    past and current matching contributions will vest immediately.
    Previously, the matching contributions vested over four years of
    service by the employee. Participant contributions vest
    immediately. The 401(k) Savings Plan also holds certain
    transition contributions on behalf of participants who
    previously participated in the Biogen, Inc. Retirement Plan. The
    expense related to our 401(k) Savings Plan primarily consists of
    our matching contributions.

Expense related to our 401(k) Savings Plan totaled
    $26.3 million, $27.9 million and $22.8 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Deferred
    Compensation Plan   

We maintain a non-qualified deferred compensation plan, known as
    the Supplemental Savings Plan (SSP), which allows a select group
    of management employees in the U.S. to defer a portion of
    their compensation. The SSP also provides certain credits to
    highly compensated U.S. employees, which are paid by the
    company. These credits are known as the Restoration Match. The
    deferred compensation amounts are accrued when earned. Such
    deferred compensation is distributable in cash in accordance
    with the rules of the SSP. Deferred compensation amounts under
    such plan as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 totaled
    approximately $62.2 million and $63.6 million,
    respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities
    within the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The SSP
    also holds certain transition contributions on behalf of
    participants who previously participated in the Biogen, Inc.
    Retirement Plan. Beginning in 2008, the Restoration Match vests
    immediately. Previously, the Restoration Match and transition
    contributions vested over four and seven years of service,
    respectively, by the employee. Participant contributions vest
    immediately. Distributions to participants can be either in one
    lump sum payment or annual installments as elected by the
    participants.

Pension
    Plan   

We currently maintain retiree benefit plans which include, a
    defined benefit plan for employees in our German affiliate and
    other insignificant defined benefit plans in certain other
    countries in which we have an operating presence.

F-66

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The obligations under the German plan totaled $8.2 million
    and $5.7 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. Net periodic pension cost relate to the German
    plan totaled $1.1 million, $1.1 million and
    $1.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

24.    

Segment
    Information  

We operate as one business segment, which is the business of
    discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products
    for the treatment of serious diseases with a focus on
    neurological disorders and therefore, our chief operating
    decision-maker manages the operations of our Company as a single
    operating segment. Enterprise-wide disclosures about product
    revenues, other revenues and long-lived assets by geographic
    area and information relating to major customers are presented
    below. Revenues are primarily attributed to individual countries
    based on location of the customer or licensee.

Revenue by product is summarized as follows:

Geographic
    Information   

The following tables contain certain financial information by
    geographic area:

F-67

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Revenues
    from Unconsolidated Joint Business   

Approximately 23%, 25% and 28% of our total revenues in 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, are derived from our joint business
    arrangement with Genentech. For a more detailed discussion of
    our collaboration with Genentech, please read Note 19,
     Collaborations  to these consolidated financial statements.

Significant
    Customers   

We recorded revenue from two wholesale distributors accounting
    for 18% and 11% of gross product revenue in 2010, 18% and 12% of
    gross product revenues in 2009, and 16% and 13% of gross product
    revenues in 2008.

Other   

As of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately
    $644.7 million, $665.8 million and
    $611.5 million, respectively, of our long-lived assets were
    related to our manufacturing facilities in Denmark.

25.    

Quarterly
    Financial Data  (Unaudited)  

F-68

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Full year amounts may not sum due to rounding.

(a)  

Included within total cost and expenses and income tax expense
    for the first quarter of 2010 is a charge to acquired IPR D
    of $40.0 million related to the achievement of a milestone
    by Biogen Idec Hemophilia, Inc. (formerly Syntonix
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.). 

(b)  

Included within total cost and expenses and income tax expense
    for the third quarter of 2010 is a charge to acquired IPR D
    of $205.0 million incurred in connection with the license
    agreement entered into with Knopp Neurosciences Inc. (Knopp),
    which we consolidated as we determined that we are the primary
    beneficiary of the entity. The $205.0 million charge was
    partially offset by an attribution of $145.0 million to the
    noncontrolling interest. 

(c)  

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest in the fourth
    quarter of 2010 includes a charge of $25.0 million related
    to the payment made in 2010 to Cardiokine Biopharma, LLC
    pursuant to the termination of our lixivaptan collaboration. 

(d)  

Included in total cost and expenses and income tax expense for
    the fourth quarter of 2010 are charges totaling
    $75.2 million related to our restructuring plan announced
    November 3, 2010. 

(e)  

Changes in tax law in certain state jurisdictions in which we
    operate during the first quarter of 2009 resulted in a
    $30.2 million reduction to our first quarter 2009 income
    tax expense. 

(f)  

Included within total cost and expenses and income tax expense
    for the second quarter of 2009 is the $110.0 million
    upfront payment made to Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. pursuant to
    our June 30, 2009 collaboration and license agreement to
    develop and commercialize products containing fampridine in
    markets outside the U.S. 

(g)  

Resolution of federal, state and foreign tax audits, including
    the effective settlement of several uncertain tax positions
    during the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in a
    $34.0 million reduction to our fourth quarter 2009 income
    tax expense. 

F-69

Table of Contents   

BIOGEN
    IDEC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

We did not have any material recognizable subsequent events.
    However, we did have the following nonrecognizable subsequent
    events:

On January 26, 2011, Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics,
    Inc. filed suit against us alleging that TYSABRI infringes
    U.S. Patent No. 5,688,688. For information about legal
    proceedings related to this matter please read Note 20,
     Litigation  to these consolidated financial statements.

On January 31, 2011, we entered into an agreement to
    terminate our 15 month lease of the San Diego facility.
    Under the terms of this agreement, we will continue to make
    monthly rental payments through August 31, 2011 and will
    have no continuing involvement or remaining obligation after
    that date. For additional information related to our lease of
    the San Diego facility please read Note 10,  Property,
    Plant and Equipment  to these consolidated financial
    statements.

F-70

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the
    Board of Directors and Shareholders of Biogen Idec
    Inc.  

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
    the related consolidated statements of income, equity and cash
    flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
    position of Biogen Idec Inc. and its subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their
    operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended December 31, 2010 in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2010 based on criteria
    established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
    responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting, included in Management s Annual Report
    on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility
    is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance
    with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
    Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
    statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
    supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

February 4, 2011

F-71

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX  

A-1

Table of Contents   

A-2

Table of Contents   

A-3

Table of Contents   

Exhibit No. 

Description 

21+

Subsidiaries.

23+

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm.

31.1+

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2+

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1++

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
    Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

101++

The following materials from Biogen Idec Inc. s Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2010, formatted in XBRL
    (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the
    Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii) the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash
    Flows, (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Equity and
    (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

References to  our  filings mean filings made by
    Biogen Idec Inc. and filings made by IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation prior to the merger with Biogen, Inc. Unless
    otherwise indicated, exhibits were previously filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission under Commission File Number
    0-19311 and are incorporated herein by reference. 

*  

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

Confidential treatment has been granted or requested with
    respect to portions of this exhibit. 

+  

Filed herewith. 

++  

Furnished herewith. 

A-4

<EX-10.5>
 2
 b83162exv10w5.htm
 EX-10.5

exv10w5 

Exhibit 10.5 

Confidential Materials omitted and filed separately with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. Asterisks denote omissions. 

SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED 
COLLABORATION AGREEMENT 

GENENTECH, INC. AND 
BIOGEN IDEC INC. 

-1- 

COLLABORATION AGREEMENT 

THIS SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED COLLABORATION AGREEMENT  (this  Agreement) is made effective as of
the 18th day of October, 2010 (the  Second Restated Effective Date ) by and between Biogen Idec
Inc. (formerly IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation), a Delaware corporation having its principal place
of business at 133 Boston Post Road, Weston, Massachusetts 02493 ( IDEC ) and  GENENTECH, INC.,  a
Delaware corporation having its principal place of business at 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080 ( Genentech ), each on behalf of itself and its Affiliates. IDEC and Genentech
are sometimes referred to herein individually as a  Party  and collectively as the  Parties,  and
references to  IDEC  and  Genentech  shall include their respective Affiliates.

RECITALS 

1. Genentech and IDEC entered into that certain Collaboration Agreement dated as of March 16,
1995 related to the development and commercialization of Licensed Products, including without
limitation C2B8 (the  Original Agreement ).

2. In the Original Agreement, IDEC granted to Genentech, and Genentech obtained, rights to
co-promote Licensed Products in the United States and Canada and to develop and market Licensed
Products in the rest of the world (excluding certain Asian countries, which were added to the
Original Agreement by amendment at a later date).

3. Simultaneously with the execution of the Original Agreement, IDEC and Genentech entered
into a Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ) of even date therewith,
pursuant to which Genentech purchased $5 million of Preferred Stock of IDEC in accordance with the
terms and conditions thereof.

4. Simultaneously with the execution of the Original Agreement, IDEC and Genentech entered
into the Expression Technology License of even date therewith granting Genentech rights to certain
enabling technology (the  Expression Technology License ).

5. Following the execution of the Original Agreement, the Parties entered into a first
amendment to the Collaboration Agreement of November 30, 1995 (the  First Amendment ) expanding
Genentech s rights to develop and market Licensed Products in the world to include certain Asian
countries.

6. Following the execution of the Original Agreement, the parties entered into an amendment of
June 15, 1998 (the  Second Amendment ) approving the assignment of certain rights of Genentech in
Canada with respect to C2B8 to F. Hoffmann La Roche Ltd.

7. On June, 19 2003 (the  Restated Effective Date ), the Parties amended and restated the
Original Agreement to include certain additional products ( New Products , as defined below) whose
mechanism of action is initiated by interaction with the CD20 B-cell determinant, including

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-2- 

without limitation the humanized molecule created by Genentech known as G2H7 (the  2003 Restated
Agreement ).

8. In an effort to be efficient in the drafting of this Agreement, the Parties have elected to
preserve substantial portions of the historical content of the Original Agreement, the First
Amendment, the Second Amendment, and the 2003 Restated Agreement in this Agreement (with the
expressed understanding that such content is not given any renewed or additional meaning by its
inclusion herein).

9. The Parties desire to change certain aspects of their collaboration, including (i)
adjusting certain financial terms applicable to Licensed Products, and (ii) providing Genentech the
sole right to develop and market OCR throughout the world, and the sole right to make decisions
with respect thereto, and to modify the financial and other terms that apply to the sale of OCR in
the Co-Promotion Territory.

NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is
hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

ARTICLE 1. 
DEFINITIONS 

Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning given them in the Schedule of
Master Definitions attached hereto as Appendix 1.

ARTICLE 2. 
SCOPE OF COLLABORATION; DEVELOPMENT COSTS 

2.1 Initial Licensed Product . The Parties will focus their initial efforts on the development
of C2B8 in the Field.

2.2 Y2B8 and In2B8 Option and Phase II Trial . If IDEC decides, or the Parties mutually agree,
to commence a Phase II Clinical Trial of IDEC s   **   ( Y2B8 ) and IDEC s   **   ( In2B8 ) (the
 Y2B8 Phase II Trial ), IDEC shall give notice, including the number of evaluable patients, of such
proposed Y2B8 Phase II Trial (the  Y2B8 Phase II Notice ) to Genentech. If Genentech notifies IDEC
within sixty (60) days of receipt of the Y2B8 Phase II Notice that it intends to participate with
IDEC in the Y2B8 Phase II Trial, then Genentech shall bear   **   of the costs of the Y2B8 Phase II
Trial up to a maximum Genentech contribution of   **  . Once Genentech has reached its maximum
contribution,   **   for the Y2B8 Phase II Trial in excess of this amount shall be borne 100% by
IDEC. If IDEC does not receive timely notice from Genentech of its intention to participate in the
Y2B8 Phase II Trial, then IDEC may proceed with the Y2B8 Phase II Trial provided that IDEC shall
bear the cost of the Y2B8 Phase II Trial. Upon completion of the Y2B8 Phase II Trial and delivery
to Genentech of a final report with respect thereto, Genentech shall have 120 days to exercise an
option to include Y2B8 and In2B8 as Licensed Products (the  Y2B8 Option ). The Y2B8 Option shall
be exercisable by written notice to IDEC ( Notice of Y2B8/In2B8

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-3- 

Exercise ) together with payment in the amount of   **   (the  Option Fee ). Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if Genentech shall have elected to participate with IDEC in the Y2B8 Phase II Trial and
contribute up to   **   toward the costs of such Y2B8 Phase II Trial, then the Option Fee shall be
reduced to   **  . Within 60 days of the Notice of Y2B8/1n2B Exercise, the Parties shall agree upon
the terms and conditions governing the development and commercialization of products derived from
Y2B8 and In2B8, taking into account the commercial value of Y2B8 and In2B relative to C2B8. In any
event, no later than publication of the Pivotal Phase III Clinical Trial results of C2B8, the
Parties shall discuss in good faith the initiation of the Y2B8 Phase II Trial.

2.3 Development Costs for C2B8 .

(a)  Except as set forth below, or unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Genentech, IDEC
shall bear all costs for development and obtaining Regulatory Approval of C2B8 in the Field in the
Co-Promotion Territory through the date of Regulatory Approval of C2B8 in the United States,
including but not limited to certain manufacturing process improvements for the current production
process and using the existing cell line. Genentech agrees, however, that it shall bear the costs
of the following development activities incurred in connection with C2B8 through the date of the
first Regulatory Approval in the United States:

(i) accelerated product stability studies conducted by Genentech as set forth in Appendix I of
the Development Plan and, if a replacement formulation is deemed necessary by the JDC, reasonable
assistance for development of such formulation and attendant studies;

(ii) assistance with assays as set forth in Appendix I to the Development Plan;

(iii) assistance provided by   **   or equivalents from Genentech, deployed at the direction of
the persons designated by the JDC to supervise the Pivotal Phase III Clinical Trial; and

(iv) the process development and manufacturing approvals of a reamplified cell-line or the
current cell-line if a reamplified cell-line scale-up is not feasible as specified in Section 8.1.

(b)  Subject to Section 2.7 and Section A.11 of Exhibit A, all Development Costs for Licensed
Products incurred by the Parties for development or marketing in the Co-Promotion Territory after
the first Regulatory Approval for C2B8 in the United States shall be charged against Operating
Profits (or Losses).

(c)  Subject to Section A.11 of Exhibit A, Genentech shall bear all Development Costs for
Licensed Products for development or marketing in the Field in the Licensed Territory, unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the Parties.

2.5 IDEC s Rights Regarding New Products Other Than G2H7 .

(a) Opt-in Notice for New Products Other Than G2H7 . For so long as the Parties are entitled
to receive a share of Operating Profits or Losses on any Franchise Product hereunder,

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-4- 

Genentech agrees to keep IDEC informed as to the existence of research and/or development
activities regarding Potential New Products other than G2H7. With respect to   **   Potential New
Products and Genentech Potential New Products, within thirty (30) days of the date that
Genentech s portfolio planning committee (or successor committee or process thereto,  PPC ) makes a
formal decision, as recorded in the minutes of the relevant PPC meeting, to commence clinical
development of such a Potential New Product (or a similar development decision is made as part of
any successor process), Genentech shall provide IDEC with the same development assessment package
that was provided to the PPC as the basis of its development decision (or otherwise reviewed in
connection with such decision), including an identification as to whether such product is a   **  
Potential New Product   **   Potential New Product. Without limiting the foregoing, such development
assessment package shall include a summary of the preclinical data and the proposed Development
Plan including proposed clinical study designs, manufacturing cost estimates, timelines, program
cost, target product profile(s), and market forecast. With respect to   **   Potential New
Products,   **  , Genentech will provide to IDEC a summary of Genentech s rights (and IDEC s
potential rights) to develop and commercialize such   **   Potential New Product, as well as relevant
information about the product, including preclinical and clinical data and reports   **  .

(b) Exercise of Opt-In by IDEC.  IDEC shall have sixty (60) days from the date of Genentech s
notice to IDEC of the availability of a Potential New Product to provide written notice to
Genentech that it elects to participate in the development and commercialization of such Potential
New Product.  In order for IDEC to preserve any rights under Section 2.  5(c)   with respect to
Genentech Potential New Products, notice of an election to    not    opt-in with respect to such
product under this Section 2.  5(b)   must be provided to Genentech within such sixty (60) day period. 

(i)  Genentech Potential New Products.  Within ten (10) days following an election to
participate in a Genentech Potential New Product, IDEC shall pay Genentech the opt-in fee set forth
in Section 7.1(b)(ii) or (iii), as the case may be. From and after the date of the payment of such
fee, such Genentech Potential New Product shall be deemed a New Product under this Agreement, and
IDEC shall have the right to participate with Genentech with respect to such product   **   New
Product.

(ii)   **  Potential New Products.  For a period of thirty (30) days following an election by
IDEC to participate in an   **   Potential New Product, Genentech and IDEC shall use good faith
efforts to agree upon the amount of the opt-in fee IDEC shall pay in order to obtain the right to
include such   **   Potential New Product as a New Product hereunder; such amount to be in any event
  **   cost of such product attributable to rights in the United States. In determining such cost,
the Parties shall take into consideration   **   in developing such product to such stage, including
without limitation   **  . If the Parties are unable to agree upon the amount of the opt-in fee for
such   **   Potential New Product, either Party may, by written notice to the other, have such matter
referred to an independent investment banker, mutually agreeable to both Parties, to determine the
amount of such opt-in fee; such determination to be binding upon both Parties. Within ten (10)
days following the Parties agreement upon, or the independent investment banker s determination of,
such opt-in fee, IDEC shall pay Genentech such amount. From and after the date

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-5- 

of the payment of such fee, such Potential New Product shall be deemed a New Product under
this Agreement, and:

(1) IDEC shall have the right to participate with Genentech with respect to such product in
the United States   **  ; or

(2) to the extent that Genentech was able at the time of Genentech s   **   in the development
and commercialization activities with   **   to participate in the development and commercialization
  **  .

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, it is understood and agreed that, with
respect to   **   Potential New Products for which IDEC has timely opted-in and paid the opt-in fee
hereunder, Genentech is under no obligation under this Agreement to offer or grant to IDEC any
rights to such   **   Potential New Products outside the United States, or make any payments to IDEC
with respect to Genentech s development and commercialization of such   **   Potential New Products
outside the United States.

Failure by IDEC under this Section 2.5(b) to provide a timely election notice or to timely pay the
opt-in fee, or rejection by IDEC of a independent investment banker s determination of the amount
of the opt-in fee (when provided in the manner set forth above with respect to   **   Potential New
Products), will be deemed to be an election not to participate in such Potential New Product (and
following any such failure or rejection, Genentech shall (except as provided in Section 2.5(c) with
respect to Genentech Potential New Products) have no further obligation to offer such Potential New
Product to IDEC and IDEC shall have no further rights under this Agreement with respect to such
Potential New Product).

(c)  **   With respect to each Genentech Potential New Product for which IDEC was provided the
opportunity to opt-in pursuant to Section 2.5(a) before the same shall have   **  , and for which
IDEC pursuant to Section 2.5(b) timely elected to not opt-in (but not including a failure to elect
to opt-in), promptly following   **   for such Genentech Potential New Product, Genentech shall
provide IDEC with   **   data package for such Genentech Potential New Product that summarizes the
clinical data and the proposed Development Plan going forward, including proposed clinical study
designs, timelines and program costs .  IDEC shall have sixty (60) days from the date of Genentech s
notice to IDEC of such development assessment package to provide written notice to Genentech that
it elects to participate in the development and commercialization of such Genentech Potential New
Product. Within ten (10) days following an election to participate in such Genentech Potential New
Product, IDEC shall pay Genentech the opt-in fee set forth in Section 7.1(b)(iv). From and after
the date of the payment of such fee, such Genentech Potential New Product shall be deemed a New
Product under this Agreement, and the Parties shall   **   New Product as provided herein. Failure
by IDEC under this Section 2.5(c) to provide a timely election notice or to timely pay the opt-in
fee will be deemed to be an election not to participate in such Genentech Potential New Product,
and following any such failure, Genentech shall have no further obligation to offer such Genentech
Potential New Product to IDEC and IDEC shall have no further rights under this Agreement with
respect to such Genentech Potential New Product.

2.6 IDEC Right of Negotiation for Third Party Anti-CD20 Products .

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-6- 

(a)  Right of Negotiation.  If Genentech decides to seek a license to develop and/or
commercialize a Third Party Anti-CD20 Product, Genentech shall promptly notify IDEC of such
decision in writing (such occurrence to  seek a license  shall be deemed to have occurred no later
than the date that   **  . IDEC shall have thirty (30) days to elect in writing to participate in
negotiations, and a failure to timely so elect shall be deemed a decision not to participate in
such negotiations (and following any such failure, Genentech shall have no further obligation to
offer such Third Party Anti-CD20 Product to IDEC and IDEC shall have no further rights under this
Agreement with respect to such Third Party Anti-CD20 Product). In the event that IDEC timely
notifies Genentech of its desire to participate in such negotiations, then for a period of ninety
(90) days, Genentech and IDEC shall use good faith efforts to agree upon terms with the Third Party
for a license to such Third Party Anti-CD20 Product that includes the participation of IDEC and
Genentech, vis- -vis each other, in the United States   **  ; provided, at Genentech s reasonable
discretion, Genentech may choose to negotiate with such Third Party alone (but to the extent
reasonably possible, on terms and conditions reasonably acceptable to IDEC). In the event that
IDEC and Genentech have not agreed upon terms with such Third Party within ninety (90) days of
IDEC s election to participate, or if the Parties have not entered into a definitive agreement with
such Third Party within one hundred and eighty (180) days of IDEC s election to participate, then
Genentech may enter into a definitive agreement on its own and at its sole discretion with such
Third Party for such Third Party Anti-CD20 Product; provided, Genentech will use its commercially
reasonable and diligent efforts to obtain the right for IDEC to participate with Genentech with
respect to such product in the United States.

(b)  Third Party Anti-CD20 Product In-licensed After the Restated Effective Date. 

(i)  Notice.  If, following IDEC s timely notification to Genentech pursuant to Section 2.6(a)
to participate in negotiations with a Third Party for a Third Party Anti-CD20 Product, Genentech
enters into a definitive agreement with such Third Party for such Third Party Anti-CD20 Product
without IDEC, then Genentech shall promptly notify IDEC of the existence of such definitive
agreement and provide IDEC with a summary of the terms, including any data package provided by such
Third Party to Genentech, under which IDEC may participate with Genentech in the United States for
such Third Party Anti-CD20 Product (such terms, vis- -vis each other, other than the amount of the
opt-in fee to be paid by IDEC to Genentech pursuant to this Section 2.6(b), to the extent
reasonably possible under such Third Party agreement, to be on   **  .

(ii)  Opt-in Fee.  The opt-in fee under Section 2.6(b)(i) above, to be determined by Genentech
  **  , shall be based on the terms of the agreement with such Third Party attributable to rights in
the United States, and shall be intended to compensate Genentech for   **   of Genentech s costs in
acquiring the rights in the United States to such product under such agreement with such Third
Party   **  . The Parties shall seek to agree on the amount of such opt-in fee, and to the extent
the Parties are unable to agree within a twenty (20) day period, such dispute shall be subject to
Section 17.2.

(c)  Third Party Anti-CD20 Product In-licensed Prior to the Restated Effective Date. 

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-7- 

(i)  Notice.  With respect to any Third Party Anti-CD20 Products for which Genentech obtained a
license to develop and commercialize such product from a Third Party prior to the Restated
Effective Date, within thirty (30) days of the date that Genentech s PPC makes a formal decision,
as recorded in the minutes of the relevant PPC meeting,   **  , Genentech shall provide IDEC with the
same development assessment package that was provided to the PPC as the basis of its   **  ,
including a summary of the terms of the license from such Third Party under which IDEC may
participate with Genentech in the United States for such Third Party Anti-CD20 Product, (such
terms, other than the amount of the opt-in fee to be paid by IDEC to Genentech pursuant to this
Section 2.6(c)(i), to the extent reasonably possible under such Third Party agreement, to be on
  **  . Without limiting the foregoing, such development assessment package shall include a summary
of the preclinical data and the proposed Development Plan including proposed clinical study
designs, manufacturing cost estimates, timelines, program cost, target product profile(s), and
market forecast, and any data package provided by such Third Party to Genentech.

(ii)  Opt-in Fee.  The opt-in fee under Section 2.6(c)(i) above, to be determined by Genentech
  **  , shall be   **   cost of such product attributable to rights in the United States.   **  . The
Parties shall seek to agree on the amount of such opt-in fee, and to the extent the Parties are
unable to agree within a twenty (20) day period, such dispute shall be subject to Section 17.2.

(d)  Election.  IDEC shall have thirty (30) days from the date of Genentech s notice under
Section 2.6(b)(i) or 2.6(c)(i) above to elect in writing to participate with Genentech on such
terms under such definitive agreement, including without limitation the opt-in fee (and to the
extent the amount of the opt-in fee is not agreed upon at the time of such election, the amount of
the opt-in fee as determined by the arbitration panel under Section 17.2; such amount to be paid
upon the earlier of agreement by the Parties on such amount, or final determination by such
arbitration panel of such amount), and a failure to so elect shall be deemed a decision not to
participate with Genentech with respect to such Third Party Anti-CD20 Product, and following any
such failure, Genentech shall have no further obligation to offer such Third Party Anti-CD20
Product to IDEC and IDEC shall have no further rights under this Agreement with respect to such
Third Party Anti-CD20 Product.

(e) Any agreement which IDEC and Genentech enter into under this Section 2.6 to develop and
commercialize a Third Party Anti-CD20 Product in the United States shall provide for licenses from
each Party to the other Party necessary to develop and commercialize such product under such
agreement; such licenses, to the extent permissible under the terms of the license from such
related Third Party, to be commensurate in scope with the licenses granted under Section 9.2.

(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, it is understood and agreed
that Genentech is under no obligation to offer or grant to IDEC any rights to any Third Party
Anti-CD20 Product outside the United States, or make any payments to IDEC with respect to
Genentech s development and commercialization of any Third Party Anti-CD20 Product outside the
United States.

(g) Genentech represents and warrants that, to the best of its knowledge, it has not, prior to
the Restated Effective Date initiated clinical development with (i) any proteins or peptides that
meet the definition of Potential New Products (other than G2H7), or (ii) any Third Party Anti-CD20

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-8- 

Product for which Genentech obtained a license to develop and commercialize such product from a
Third Party prior to the Restated Effective Date, in each case as recorded in the minutes of its
PPC.

2.7 Development Costs for New Products . Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Parties,
from and after the Restated Effective Date, and notwithstanding a Party s share in Operating
Profits (or Losses), all Development Costs for New Products for development or marketing in the
Co-Promotion Territory shall be shared by the Parties,   **   by Genentech and   **   by IDEC until
  **  . After   **  , the Parties will share in the Development Costs for New Products for development
or marketing in the Co-Promotion Territory commensurate with the profit/loss sharing relationship
specified in Section A.9.3 and the guidelines for charging costs specified in Section A.11 of
Exhibit A for such products. Genentech shall bear   **   Development Costs for New Products for
development or marketing in the Licensed Territory, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the
Parties.

ARTICLE 3. 
MANAGEMENT OF THE COLLABORATION 

3.1 Management Committee .

(a) Within thirty (30) days of the Original Effective Date, the Parties will establish a
Management Committee to oversee and manage the collaboration in the Co-Promotion Territory
contemplated by this Agreement. The Management Committee will be composed of three representatives
appointed and replaced by IDEC and three representatives appointed and replaced by Genentech. All
such representatives will be senior officers and/or managers of IDEC or Genentech. Either Party
may replace any or all of its representatives at any time upon prior written notice to the other
Party. The Management Committee will meet at least once each calendar quarter, or more frequently,
as agreed by the Management Committee, and will operate by consensus, except as expressly set forth
herein. If the Management Committee is unable to resolve a dispute regarding any issue presented
to it, such dispute shall be resolved in accordance with Article 17 below.

(b) The Management Committee shall perform the following functions:

(i) determine the overall strategy for the collaboration in the manner contemplated by this
Agreement, including without limitation, overseeing and determining the strategy for the
coordination, development and commercialization of Licensed Products and New Products so as to
maximize the Operating Profits of all Franchise Products subject to and in accordance with Section
4.1.

(ii) coordinate the activities of the Parties hereunder;

(iii) establish a governance structure for the collaboration including overseeing the
establishment and organization of one or more Operating Committees, or other structure to implement
this Agreement. The establishment of certain Operating Committees is provided for in Sections 3.2,
3.3 and 3.4 of this Agreement. Each Operating Committee contemplated by this

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-9- 

Agreement shall be subordinate to the Management Committee. If any Operating Committee
contemplated by this Agreement is not constituted or continued, any reference to such Committee in
this Agreement shall be deemed to be a reference to the Management Committee or such other
committees or structures to which the Management Committee may delegate responsibility;

(iv) settle disputes or disagreements that are unresolved by an Operating Committee unless
otherwise indicated in this Agreement; and

(v) perform such other functions as appropriate to further the purposes of this Agreement as
determined by the Parties.

(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, or anything else in this agreement to the contrary, the
Management Committee shall have no oversight of, involvement in or authority over any aspect of
OCR.

3.2 Joint Development Committee .

(a) Within thirty (30) days of the Original Effective Date, the Parties will establish the
Joint Development Committee to oversee and control all development of Franchise Products in the
Co-Promotion Territory, in the Field, including pre-clinical research, clinical research,
manufacturing, regulatory filings and post-approval development studies. The JDC will be composed
of three representatives appointed by each of IDEC and Genentech. Each representative will have
one vote on all matters within the JDC s purview. Such representatives will include individuals
with expertise and responsibilities in the areas of preclinical development, clinical development,
process sciences, manufacturing or regulatory affairs. Either Party may replace any or all of its
representatives at any time upon written notice to the other Party. The JDC will meet at least
once each calendar quarter, or more frequently, as agreed by the JDC. The JDC will operate by
consensus, except as expressly set forth herein. If the JDC is unable to resolve a dispute
regarding any issue presented to it, such dispute shall be resolved in accordance with Article 17
below.

(b) The JDC shall coordinate, expedite and guide the development of Franchise Products,
including review and approval of Development Plans for New Products, to obtain Regulatory Approvals
in the Co-Promotion Territory, and in a manner consistent with maximizing the Operating Profits for
all Franchise Products subject to and in accordance with Section 4.1. The JDC will update the
Development Plans from time to time as it deems necessary.

(c) The JDC shall also be the forum for exchange of information on Genentech s substantive
development of Franchise Products in the Licensed Territory, unless an IDEC representative is
permitted to attend meetings of a Genentech development committee as set forth in Section 6.4.
While the IDEC representatives may comment on such development, Genentech shall have the final say.

(d) If any Genentech European development partner so requests, IDEC will consider in good
faith allowing a representative of such partner to attend the JDC meetings.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-10- 

(e) The term of the JDC will be determined by the Management Committee.

(f) For clarity, the JDC shall have no oversight of, involvement in or control over any aspect
of the development of OCR, which shall reside solely with and in the discretion of Genentech.

3.3 Joint Commercialization Committee .

(a) Within thirty (30) days of the Original Effective Date, the Parties will establish the
Joint Commercialization Committee. When established, the JCC shall be composed of two
representatives appointed by each of IDEC and Genentech. Either Party may replace any or all of
its representatives at any time upon prior written notice to the other Party. The JCC will be an
operational committee made up of individuals with expertise and responsibilities in the areas of
product development and marketing, sales management or market research. The JCC will meet on a
quarterly basis, except that from submission of a BLA for a Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion
Territory until the end of the second year of sales for such Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion
Territory, the JCC shall meet more frequently in order to prepare for and oversee the launch of
such Franchise Product. The JCC will operate by consensus, except as expressly set forth herein.
Each representative will have one vote. If the JCC is unable to resolve a dispute regarding any
issue presented to it, such dispute shall be resolved in accordance with Section 17.1.

(b) The purposes of the JCC shall be to (i) monitor, review and approve commercialization
plans with regard to the commercialization of Franchise Products in the Co-Promotion Territory,
including, in accordance with Section 5.4, top-line annual marketing and sales budgets (as
described in Section A.1(a) of Exhibit A), annual forecasts of sales and production requirements,
the annual marketing plan, broad product positioning, initial product pricing, and Phase IV
clinical strategy (e.g. overall plans for investigator sponsored trials and publication studies) as
well as (ii) select trademarks for Franchise Products.

(c) The JCC shall have no involvement in the commercialization of Licensed Products in the
Licensed Territory or of OCR in either the Licensed Territory or Co-Promotion Territory, which
shall be solely the responsibility of Genentech at its expense.

(d) The term of the JCC will be determined by the Management Committee.

(e) For clarity, the JCC shall have no oversight of, involvement in or control over any aspect
of the commercialization of OCR, which shall reside solely with and in the discretion of Genentech.

3.4 Joint Finance Committee .

(a) Within thirty (30) days of the Original Effective Date, the Parties will establish the
Joint Finance Committee to be composed of two representatives appointed by each of IDEC and
Genentech. Either Party may replace any or all of its representatives at any time upon prior
written

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-11- 

notice to the other Party. Such representatives will include individuals with expertise and
responsibilities in the areas of accounting, cost allocation, budgeting and financial reporting.
The JFC will operate by consensus, except as expressly set forth herein. If the JFC is unable to
resolve a dispute regarding any issue presented to it, such dispute shall be resolved in accordance
with Article 17.

(b) The JFC shall operate under the direction of the Management Committee to provide services
to and consult with the JDC and the JCC in order to address the financial, budgetary and accounting
issues which arise in connection with the Development Plans and updates thereto as described in
Exhibit A, as well as commercialization plans and updates thereto.

(c) The JFC shall have no involvement in the development of Licensed Products in the
Licensed Territory or of OCR in either the Licensed Territory or Co-Promotion Territory, which
shall be the responsibility of Genentech, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

(d) The JFC will cease operating and have no further function hereunder on the date on which
the Parties are no longer sharing Operating Profits or Losses with respect to any Franchise Product
in the Co-Promotion Territory.

(e) For clarity, the JFC shall have no oversight of, involvement in or control over any aspect
of OCR, including any financial, budgetary and accounting issues in connection with OCR, which
shall reside solely with and in the discretion of Genentech.

3.5 Collaboration Co-Chairpersons . Within sixty (60) days of the Restated Effective Date,
each Party shall designate a Collaboration Co-Chairperson. Each such Collaboration Co-Chairperson
shall be a vice president, unless otherwise agreed, and shall serve as a member or an ex-officio
member of the Management Committee and each Operating Committee and shall be responsible (together,
or as the Collaboration Co-Chairpersons may elect to divide responsibilities) to set the agenda of,
call and take minutes of meetings of each Committee. In the event of any reasonable dispute
between the Collaboration Co-Chairpersons as to any matter to include in the agenda of a meeting,
such matter shall by default be included in the agenda.

ARTICLE 4. 
DEVELOPMENT IN THE CO-PROMOTION TERRITORY 

4.1 Development Efforts for C2B8 . IDEC and Genentech each agree to collaborate diligently in
the development of C2B8 in the Field and to use commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to
develop and bring C2B8 to market in the Field as soon as practicable. The Parties further agree to
execute and substantially perform the Development Plan for C2B8 and to cooperate with the other in
carrying out such Development Plan. It is anticipated that the Parties may develop and
commercialize one or more New Products, and Genentech may develop and commercialize GA101 and/or
OCR, each in a manner that might adversely affect the development and commercialization of C2B8,
but in any event such efforts shall be directed towards maximizing the Operating Profits of
Franchise Products and GA101 in the aggregate; provided that Genentech

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential
treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-12- 

shall remain free, in its sole discretion, but subject to the limitations enumerated in Section
4.8, to determine how to develop OCR. As used in this Agreement, the term commercially reasonable
and diligent efforts will mean those efforts consistent with the exercise of prudent scientific and
business judgment, as applied to other pharmaceutical products of similar potential and market size
by the Party in question. IDEC acknowledges and agrees that Genentech s failure to agree to the
development of C2B8 in an indication for which OCR is then currently being developed is not a
breach of any obligation to diligently develop C2B8, use commercially reasonable and diligent
efforts to develop and bring C2B8 to market, or to direct efforts toward maximizing the Operating
Profits of Franchise Products and GA101 in the aggregate.

4.2 Drug Approval Applications for C2B8 . Consistent with the Development Plan, IDEC (or
Genentech, if appropriate) shall file Drug Approval Applications and seek Regulatory Approvals for
C2B8 in the Co-Promotion Territory. Prior to submitting any Drug Approval Application, the
Parties, through the JDC, shall consult, cooperate in preparing and mutually agree on such
Applications and their content and scope. Each Party shall own all regulatory submissions
including all Drug Approval Applications for C2B8 that such Party files in the Co-Promotion
Territory. The Parties will endeavor to include on all package labels and inserts for C2B8 sold in
the Co-Promotion Territory, where appropriate (i.e., to the extent such materials identify or
otherwise make reference to either of the Parties), the names and logos of each of IDEC and
Genentech with equal prominence, to the extent permitted by the applicable regulatory authorities.

4.3. Development Efforts for New Products . IDEC and Genentech each agree to collaborate
diligently in the development of New Products in the Co-Promotion Territory in the Field and to use
commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to develop and bring each New Product to market in the
Co-Promotion Territory in the Field as soon as practicable so as to maximize the potential
Operating Profits as to Franchise Products in the aggregate in the Co-Promotion Territory subject
to and in accordance with Section 4.1. The Parties further agree to execute and substantially
perform the Development Plan for each New Product and to cooperate with the other in carrying out
each such Development Plan.

4.4 Drug Approval Applications for New Products . Consistent with the Development Plans for
New Products, unless otherwise agreed in writing, Genentech shall file Drug Approval Applications
and seek Regulatory Approvals for New Products in the Co-Promotion Territory. Prior to submitting
any Drug Approval Application, the Parties, through the JDC, shall consult, cooperate in preparing
and mutually agree upon such Application and its content and scope. Each Party shall own all
regulatory submissions including all Drug Approval Applications for New Products that such Party
files in the Co-Promotion Territory. The Parties will endeavor to include on all package labels
and inserts for New Products sold in the Co-Promotion Territory, when appropriate (i.e., to the
extent such materials identify or otherwise make reference to either of the Parties), the names and
logos of each of IDEC and Genentech with equal prominence, to the extent permitted by the
applicable regulatory authorities.

4.5 Development Activities for Franchise Products . With regard to the development of New
Products, including, without limitation, G2H7, and with regard to all Franchise Products
(including, without limitation, C2B8)   **  , Genentech will be responsible for proposing strategic

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-13- 

plans (including plans to initiate a company sponsored trial), as well as Development Plans, for
such Franchise Products. Such Development Plans shall include, where appropriate and without
limitation, clinical development plans, timelines, and overall budgets (consisting of aggregate
estimated annual expenditures and top line expenses for clinical development) for such Franchise
Products. Such strategic plans and Development Plans and other materials shall be delivered to the
JDC for review and approval by unanimous consent. Once a Development Plan has been approved by the
JDC, Genentech shall be responsible for implementing such Development Plans, except to the extent
that the JDC allocates particular activities, by unanimous consent, to IDEC. In addition, and
notwithstanding the dispute resolution provisions of Sections 3.1 through 3.4, with regard to the
development of New Products, including without limitation G2H7, and with regard to all Franchise
Products (including without limitation C2B8)   **  , Genentech shall have final decision-making
control over the implementation of each such Development Plan, including without limitation,
clinical development, provided, however, that Genentech shall not have the right to (i) exceed the
annual aggregate budget approved with a Development Plan by   **   without the unanimous approval of
the JDC, (ii) assign tasks to IDEC that were not otherwise approved by unanimous consent of the
JDC, or (iii) materially amend a Development Plan without the unanimous approval of the JDC. For
the avoidance of doubt, it is understood and agreed that Genentech s implementation of a
Development Plan shall not be deemed a material amendment to such Development Plan, unless such
implementation would (x) materially modify the strategic direction agreed upon by the Parties
thereunder, or (y) result in an agreed upon timeline thereunder being   **  .

4.6 Clinical Trials Not Approved by the JDC . In the event that Genentech proposes a
particular clinical trial as part of a Development Plan (other than a clinical trial proposed for
C2B8 prior to the First New Product FDA Approval) and such trial is not approved by the JDC within
thirty (30) days of the date that such trial was proposed to the JDC (or in the event such trial
was proposed to the JDC other than at a meeting of the JDC, within thirty (30) days of the date
that the JDC first meets (whether in person or by teleconference) following the date such trial was
proposed to the JDC), then Genentech shall have the right to conduct such trial at its own expense.
During such thirty (30) day period, Genentech shall timely provide all information reasonably
requested by any member of the JDC that would be material to making a determination as whether such
proposed clinical trial should be approved. If in such circumstance, Genentech elects to conduct
such trial within a reasonable period of time thereafter, and such trial meets all of its primary
endpoints, then IDEC shall reimburse Genentech for   **   of the Development Costs related to such
trial that IDEC would otherwise have been responsible for if the JDC had approved such trial (i.e.,
  **   the total Development Costs).

4.7 Development of OCR . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, but
except as specifically set forth in Section 4.8, as between the Parties, Genentech shall be solely
responsible for and shall have sole control over, at its sole expense (except for IDEC s share of
the costs and losses specified in Sections 12.10(e) and 16.2), the development (including, but not
limited to, the initiation and conduct of clinical trials) of OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory and
the Licensed Territory. As between the Parties, Genentech shall have the sole authority to file,
in its own name, at its sole expense, all regulatory submissions and filings, including all Drug
Approval Applications, for OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory and the Licensed Territory.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-14- 

Genentech shall have the sole authority and control over communications with any regulatory
authority (including FDA) regarding any development activities (including any clinical trials)
related to a OCR, Drug Approval Application for a OCR, or any Regulatory Approval of OCR once
granted. Promptly following the Second Restated Effective Date, the Parties  regulatory
departments shall review the existing agreements between the Parties regarding pharmacovigilance
and global safety reporting for OCR, and make amendments to such agreements to account for the fact
that Genentech has sole control over the development of OCR and sole authority and control of
communications with regulatory authorities with respect to OCR.

4.8 Restrictions on Genentech s Development of OCR . Neither Genentech nor any Genentech
sublicensee of rights under this Agreement shall conduct in the Co-Promotion Territory a clinical
trial in humans of OCR in the following indications: chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkin s
lymphoma and rheumatoid arthritis. In addition , neither Genentech nor any Genentech sublicensee
of rights under this Agreement shall file a Drug Approval Application in the Co-Promotion Territory
or seek Regulatory Approval in the Co-Promotion Territory for OCR in rheumatoid arthritis.

ARTICLE 5. 
COMMERCIALIZATION IN THE CO-PROMOTION TERRITORY 

5.1 Commercialization Efforts 

(a)  Commercialization Efforts for Licensed Products.  IDEC and Genentech each agree to (i)
collaborate diligently in the commercialization of C2B8 and (ii) use commercially reasonable and
diligent efforts to commercialize C2B8 promptly and in such a manner as to maximize Operating
Profits as to Franchise Products in the aggregate in the Co-Promotion Territory subject to and in
accordance with Section 4.1. The Parties agree that Genentech will play the primary role and IDEC
the secondary role in all sales, marketing and product launch activities and tactical execution of
marketing and sales promotional programs in the Co-Promotion Territory. The Parties shall be
guided by a standard of reasonableness in economic terms and of fairness to each of the Parties,
striving to balance as best they can the legitimate interests and concerns of the Parties and to
realize the economic potential of C2B8.

(b)  Commercialization Efforts for New Products . IDEC and Genentech each agree to (i)
collaborate diligently in the commercialization of New Products in the Co-Promotion Territory and
(ii) use commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to commercialize New Products promptly and in
such a manner as to maximize Operating Profits as to Franchise Products in the aggregate in the
Co-Promotion Territory subject to and in accordance with Section 4.1. The Parties agree that, as
to New Products, Genentech will be responsible for all marketing and product launch activities and
tactical execution of marketing and sales promotional programs in the Co-Promotion Territory.
Genentech and IDEC shall deploy a co-promotion sales force according to section 5.2 below. The
Parties shall be guided by a standard of reasonableness in economic terms and of fairness to each
of the Parties, striving to balance as best they can the legitimate interests and concerns of the
Parties and to realize the economic potential of New Products in the Co-Promotion Territory.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-15- 

5.2 Sales Efforts in the Co-Promotion Territory .

(a) Although Genentech has the primary marketing role, IDEC shall have the right to deploy a
co-promotion sales force in the Co-Promotion Territory; such IDEC sales force shall comprise   **  
Sales Representatives consistent with   **   between IDEC and Genentech, or as otherwise determined
by the unanimous consent of the JCC. As of   **  , such sales forces deployed by Genentech and/or
IDEC shall be solely dedicated to selling (i) Franchise Products and (ii) products that are not
Franchise Products   **  .

(b) In addition, Genentech shall have the right, at its election, to   **   as follows:

(i) Genentech shall provide written notice to IDEC of the specific date upon which   **   (such
notice to be provided at least   **  );

(ii) To the extent   **  ; and

(iii) To the extent   **  .

IDEC shall timely provide Genentech with invoices for any   **   incurred under this Section 5.2(b),
and Genentech shall pay such invoices within sixty (60) days thereof. Genentech shall have the
right to audit such invoiced   **   no more than once a calendar year, such audit to be conducted in
accordance with Section A.6 of Exhibit A.

As used herein:

**  ;

IDEC Sales Force FTEs  means that number of additional incremental IDEC FTEs actually
allocated by IDEC to its sales force in a given calendar year to convert a portion of such sales
force to a sales force dedicated to selling   **   ( Y2B8 ) (and to the extent IDEC elects to
allocate any of such sales force dedicated to selling   **   to also selling non-Franchise Products
  **  , it is understood that   **  ; provided such FTE s shall not include that portion of any FTEs
allocated by IDEC to selling   **   prior to the date of Genentech s written notice to IDEC under
Section 5.2(b)(i) above nor as of the Restated Effective Date;

FTE  means the equivalent of a full-time employee (or   **  ) assigned to selling, supporting
or overseeing the sale activity of   **   in the Co-Promotion Territory over a calendar year
(including normal vacation, sick days and holidays), and in the case of less than a full-time
employee (or   **  ), the portion of an FTE year devoted by an employee (or   **  ) to the   **   sales
force shall be determined by dividing the number of days (or partial days) during any calendar year
devoted by such employee (or   **  ) to the   **   sales force by the total number of working days of a
full-time employee (or   **  ) during such calendar year; and

FTE Rate  means   **   per FTE per calendar year.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-16- 

(c) Unless the JCC shall otherwise unanimously agree: (i) each Party shall be entitled to
assign its respective sales force to such markets and accounts as it shall determine in its
reasonable discretion, and (ii) there shall be no prohibition on the sales forces of both Parties
calling on any individual customer; provided in each case, such sales force shall conduct such
activities in accordance with coordinated messages approved by the JCC.

(d) The Parties shall recover their Sales Costs in accordance with Exhibit A.

5.3 Sales and Distribution . Unless otherwise agreed in writing, Genentech shall have the sole
responsibility with respect to the following:

(a) Booking sales for and distributing Franchise Products. If IDEC receives any orders for
Franchise Products, it shall refer such orders to Genentech.

(b) Handling all returns of Franchise Products. If Franchise Products are returned to IDEC,
it shall promptly be shipped to the facility responsible for shipment of Franchise Products in the
country in question to the attention of the Returned Goods Department or another location as may be
designated by Genentech.

(c) Handling all recalls of Franchise Products. IDEC will make available to Genentech, upon
request, all of its pertinent records which Genentech may reasonably request to assist Genentech in
effecting any recall.

(d) Handling all aspects of order processing, invoicing and collection, Franchise Products
distribution, warehousing, inventory and receivables, and collection of data of sales to hospitals
and other end users (e.g., DDD data).

(e) Handling all other customer service related functions.

5.4 Commercialization Plans and Materials .

(a)  Marketing and Promotional Materials for Licensed Products . All marketing and promotional
materials related to Licensed Products shall be prepared by Genentech, and all marketing and
promotional strategies and campaigns for Licensed Products shall be subject to review and approval
by the JCC. Genentech shall be entitled to select any Third Parties involved in the preparation of
such materials. With respect to written and visual promotional or educational materials, to the
extent such materials identify or otherwise make reference to either of the Parties, IDEC and
Genentech shall both be presented and described with equal prominence and emphasis as having joined
and participated in the development and joint commercialization of Licensed Products, as permitted
by the applicable laws and regulations of each country in which such materials are to be presented.
All documentary information, promotional materials and oral presentations (where practical)
regarding the detailing and promoting of Licensed Products shall maximize the brand equity of the
products and state this arrangement and display, where appropriate (i.e., to the extent such
materials identify or otherwise make reference to either of the Parties), the names and logos of
each of IDEC and Genentech, with equal prominence.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-17- 

(b)  Commercialization Plans and Materials for Franchise Products . With regard to the
commercialization of New Products, including without limitation G2H7, and with regard to all
Franchise Products (including, without limitation, C2B8)   **  , Genentech will be responsible for
proposing strategic plans and strategies, as well as commercialization plans, for such Franchise
Products. Such commercialization plans shall include, where appropriate and without limitation,
life cycle plans, long range plans, three year brand plans, pricing strategies and Annual
Commercial Operating Budgets for such Franchise Products. Such commercialization plans shall be
delivered to the JCC for review and approval by unanimous consent (such delivery to take place upon
completion of such plan or upon completion of an updated plan, as the case may be, regardless of
when such completion occurs during the calendar year). Once a commercialization plan has been
approved by the JCC, Genentech shall be responsible for implementing such commercialization plan,
except to the extent that the JCC allocates particular activities, by unanimous consent, to IDEC.
In addition, and notwithstanding the dispute resolution provisions of Sections 3.1 through 3.4,
with regard to the commercialization of New Products, including without limitation G2H7, and with
regard to all Franchise Products (including, without limitation, C2B8)   **  , Genentech shall have
final decision-making control over the implementation of each such commercialization plan,
including without limitation, marketing and promotional activities and materials (e.g., medical
education, medical information, public relations, investigator sponsored studies, publication
planning, sales resource analysis and key opinion leader development), provided, however, that
Genentech shall not have the right to (i) exceed (in the aggregate) the Annual Commercial Operating
Budget approved with such commercialization plan by   **   without the unanimous approval of the JCC,
(ii) assign tasks to IDEC that were not otherwise approved by unanimous consent of the JCC, (iii)
assign an initial pricing for a Franchise Product, unless such initial pricing is within   **   of
the current price for C2B8, or (iv) materially amend a commercialization plan without the unanimous
approval of the JCC. For the avoidance of doubt, it is understood and agreed that Genentech s
implementation of a commercialization plan shall not be deemed a material amendment to such
commercialization plan, unless such implementation would materially modify the strategic direction
agreed upon by the Parties thereunder. All documentary information, promotional materials and oral
presentations (where practical) regarding the detailing and promoting of New Products shall
maximize the brand equity of the products and display, where appropriate (i.e., to the extent such
materials identify or otherwise make reference to either of the Parties), the names and logos of
each of IDEC and Genentech with equal prominence.

5.5 Training Program . Genentech shall develop training programs relating to Franchise
Products for the sales forces of each respective Party and for any Third Parties engaged in selling
or promotion, and shall assign responsibility to itself, IDEC or a Third Party for the preparation
of materials and conduct of training. The Parties agree to utilize such training programs on an
ongoing basis to assure a consistent, focused promotional strategy. The initial training as to any
Franchise Product shall be carried out at a time which is mutually acceptable to the Parties, and
which is prior to but reasonably near the date on which the first Regulatory Approval for such
Franchise Product is expected in the Co-Promotion Territory. As additional members are added to
the Parties  respective sales forces, training will be given to groups of the newly selected
members.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-18- 

5.6 Commercialization of OCR.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, as
between the Parties, Genentech shall be solely responsible for (except for IDEC s share of the
costs and losses specified in Sections 12.10(e) and 16.2), and shall have sole control over, the
commercialization (including sales, pricing, marketing and distribution) of OCR in the Co-Promotion
Territory and the Licensed Territory.

ARTICLE 6. 
DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION IN LICENSED TERRITORY 

6.1 Development Efforts . Genentech will use commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to
develop C2B8, including pursuing preclinical development and clinical development of C2B8 and
obtaining Regulatory Approvals therefor in all countries in the Licensed Territory, taking into
account the scientific and commercial potential of C2B8, including, without limitation, each of the
potential indications in the Field for C2B8. Within ninety (90) days of the Original Effective
Date, Genentech agrees to provide IDEC with a written development strategy for C2B8 in the Licensed
Territory indicating (i) whether Genentech will develop C2B8 alone or with a partner in Europe,
(ii) the identity of its European partner (if any), and (iii) a list of clinical trials which
Genentech would conduct for C2B8 approval in Europe assuming adequate quantities of C2B8 are
available.

6.2 Marketing Efforts . Genentech will use commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to
commercialize C2B8 in each country in which Regulatory Approval is granted, taking into account the
scientific and commercial potential for C2B8, including without limitation each of the potential
indications therefor.

6.3 Development Costs and Marketing Costs . Genentech shall bear all Development Costs and
Marketing Costs for C2B8 for development or marketing in the Licensed Territory. Genentech shall
have the sole responsibility for, and right to make all decisions regarding, all development and
marketing activities in the Licensed Territory.

6.4 Cooperation on Development Efforts . To facilitate cooperation between the Parties on the
worldwide development and marketing of C2B8, Genentech shall keep IDEC informed of all substantive
development activities in the Licensed Territory, and agrees to use its good faith efforts to have
an IDEC representative attend meetings of any development committee or similar body governing
development activities of Licensed Products in the Licensed Territory. Genentech shall consider in
good faith any comments made by such IDEC representative. The Parties agree that they will do
nothing during C2B8 development activities to imperil early Regulatory Approvals in any country in
any territory. Genentech further agrees that its European development plan for Licensed Products
will not specify clinical trials on a time line that would delay or slow Regulatory Approval in the
United States.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-19- 

ARTICLE 7. 
MILESTONES, PROFIT SHARING, ROYALTIES AND OTHER PAYMENTS 

7.1 (a) Payments by Genentech upon Execution of Original Agreement . Genentech made the
following payments to IDEC at the times set forth herein or in the operative agreement:

(i) 
       
         **  , within 10 days of the Original Effective Date; 

(ii) 
       
         **  ; and 

(iii) 
       
     $5,000,000 to purchase shares of IDEC Preferred Stock as set forth in the Stock
Purchase Agreement. 

(b) Payment by IDEC upon Execution of this Agreement; Opt-in Fees . IDEC shall make the
following payments to Genentech at the times set forth herein:

(i) 
       
       **  , within 10 days of the Restated Effective Date; 

(ii) 
       
       **  , within 10 days of making an opt-in election pursuant to Section 2.5(b) for the
first New Product other than G2H7 for which such an election is made, provided, however,
that if a fee is paid under Section 7.1(b)(iv) before any fee is paid under this Section
7.1(b)(ii), then this Section 7.1(b)(ii) shall be deemed void  ab initio  and the word
 second  in Section 7.1(b)(iii) shall be deemed changed to  first  

(iii) 
       
       **  , within 10 days of making an opt-in election pursuant to Section 2.5(b) for the
second and each subsequent New Product other than G2H7 for which such an election is made. 

(iv) 
       
       **  , within 10 days of making an opt-in election pursuant to Section 2.5(c) for the
first and each subsequent New Product other than G2H7 for which such an election is made. 

7.2 Additional Equity Purchases . Genentech shall make certain additional equity purchases in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Stock Purchase Agreement.

7.3 Special Pre-Approval Debt or Equity Purchase . Genentech shall, at the election of IDEC,
make an additional investment or loan in accordance with the terms and conditions of an Option
Agreement of even date of the Original Effective Date between IDEC and Genentech (the  Option
Agreement ).

7.4 Milestone Payments . Subject to the terms of the equity purchases set forth in the Stock
Purchase Agreement and the credit as provided in the Option Agreement, Genentech made or shall make
the following payments to IDEC, within 30 days after the first achievement of each of the following
milestones for C2B8:

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-20- 

MILESTONE   
       
       Payment   

(a) Upon Regulatory Approval in the United States

**   

(b) Upon Regulatory Approval in the First
Major European Country

**   

(c) Patent Milestone Event

**   

7.5 Share of Operating Profits or Losses . Upon the first Regulatory Approval in the United
States, IDEC and Genentech shall share in Operating Profits or Losses from sales of Franchise
Products other than OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory as provided in Exhibit A.

7.6 Term of Operating Profits or Loss es. The Parties shall share Operating Profits or Losses
hereunder in the Co-Promotion Territory until the earlier of the date the Parties mutually agree to
terminate the collaboration in the Co-Promotion Territory, or as provided in Section 15.2.

7.7 Royalties. 

(a)  OCR in Co-Promotion Territory.  Genentech shall pay IDEC a royalty on Royalty-Bearing
Sales in the Co-Promotion Territory of OCR as follows:

(i) a 13.5% royalty on the portion of annual Royalty-Bearing Sales of OCR in the
Co-Promotion Territory up to and including   **  ;

(ii) a   **   royalty on the portion of annual Royalty-Bearing Sales of OCR in the
Co-Promotion Territory above   **   and up to and including   **  ;

(iii) a
  **   royalty on the portion of annual Royalty-Bearing Sales of OCR in the
Co-Promotion Territory above   **   and up to and including   **  ;

(iv) a   **   royalty on the portion of annual Royalty-Bearing Sales of OCR in the
Co-Promotion Territory above   **   and up to and including   **  ;

(v) a   **   royalty on the portion of annual Royalty-Bearing Sales of OCR in the
Co-Promotion Territory above   **   and up to and including   **  ;

(vi) a   **   royalty on the portion of annual Royalty-Bearing Sales of OCR in the
Co-Promotion Territory above   **   and up to and including   **  ; and

(vii) a 24% royalty on the portion of annual Royalty-Bearing Sales of OCR in the
Co-Promotion Territory above   **  .

Upon the first entry in the Co-Promotion Territory of a biosimilar for OCR, the foregoing
royalty rates shall be reduced by   **  . For the purposes of the preceding sentence, a  biosimilar 

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-21- 

for OCR means a product developed by an entity other than Genentech, a Genentech Affiliate or
F. Hoffman-La Roche AG, which product either: (i) has been deemed a biosimilar or interchangeable
product pursuant to  Section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act or Section 505(b)(2) of the
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or successor provisions of either,  or any implementing legislation or
regulations thereof, wherein OCR was the reference product relied upon in making such
determination; or (ii) has been approved for marketing in the Co-Promotion Territory as a
biosimilar or generic version of OCR pursuant to similarly purposed legislation as described in (i)
above which may be enacted following the Second Restated Effective Date.

(b)  Licensed Products.  Genentech shall pay IDEC a royalty on Royalty-Bearing Sales of
Licensed Products in the Licensed Territory as follows: (i) the royalty rate shall be   **   of
Royalty-Bearing Sales in the Licensed Territory in any calendar year, and (ii) the royalty rate
shall be   **   of Royalty-Bearing Sales in the Licensed Territory in any calendar year.

(c)  New Products and OCR in Licensed Territory.  Genentech shall pay IDEC a   **   royalty on
Royalty-Bearing Sales in the Licensed Territory of (i) G2H7 and each other New Product and (ii)
OCR; provided however, that no such royalty shall be due on any   **   Potential New Product that was
deemed a New Product pursuant to Section 2.5(b)(ii), nor on any Third Party Anti-CD20 Product for
which IDEC enters into a written agreement with Genentech pursuant to Section 2.6.

(d)  Third Party Royalties on Franchise Products in Co-Promotion Territory.  Royalties owed to
any Third Party on account of sales of Franchise Products in the Co-Promotion Territory will be
charged against Co-Promotion Profits, except that IDEC will pay any payments owed to ML/MS Partners
on account of any sales of Licensed Products in any territory.

(e)  Third Party Royalties on Franchise Products and on OCR in the Licensed Territory. 
Genentech shall pay any Third Party royalties (except to ML/MS Partners) owed on account of sales
of Franchise Products and OCR in the Licensed Territory, including royalties owed due to the
manufacture of Franchise Products by Genentech or IDEC. Genentech shall receive a credit of   **  
of the royalties it pays on account of the manufacture, use or sale of Licensed Products against
royalties it owes to IDEC. Prior to the Original Effective Date, Genentech discussed with IDEC the
significant Third Party royalties that it believed at such time would be payable on sales of
Licensed Products. In addition, Genentech shall receive a credit of   **   of the royalties it pays
on account of the manufacture, use or sale of G2H7 and each other New Product and OCR in the
Licensed Territory against royalties it owes to IDEC; provided, however that the royalty that would
otherwise be due under Section 7.7(c) shall not be reduced below a   **   royalty.

(f)  Third Party Royalties on OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory.  Genentech shall pay any Third
Party royalties owed on account of sales of OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory, which shall not be
creditable against any royalty or other payment owed by Genentech to IDEC.

(g) The Parties (i) shall, within ninety (90) days following the Original Effective Date,
amend the Cabilly license dated December 7, 1993 between Genentech and IDEC (the  Cabilly

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-22- 

License ) to waive any royalties owed by IDEC to Genentech on manufacture, use or sale of Licensed
Products covered by the Cabilly License in the Co-Promotion Territory, and (ii) to the extent IDEC
would be obligated to pay royalties (if any) under the Cabilly License in order to manufacture, use
or sell any New Products in the Co-Promotion Territory, Genentech agrees to amend such license to
waive any such royalties; provided, however, that any payment Genentech must make to any Third
Party on account of the development, manufacture, use or sale of Franchise Products covered by the
patents included in the Cabilly License shall be included in Cost of Sales of such Franchise
Products.

(h) If the Parties mutually agree to develop an anti-CD19 protein under this Agreement covered
by a claim of a Patent included in the Cabilly License, Genentech will make available a license for
CD19 antigens to Patents included in the Cabilly License as part of the commercial terms for the
development of such product.

7.8 Royalty Payment Reports . Royalty payments under this Agreement shall be made to IDEC or
its designee quarterly within sixty (60) days following the end of each calendar quarter for which
royalties are due. Each royalty payment shall be accompanied by a report summarizing the
Royalty-Bearing Sales during the relevant three-month period.

7.9 Term of Royalty Obligations. 

(a) Genentech shall pay royalties hereunder with respect to Franchise Products and OCR in each
country in the Licensed Territory for eleven (11) years from the date of first commercial sale of
such Franchise Product or OCR, respectively, in such country. Genentech shall pay royalties
hereunder with respect to OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory until   **  .

(b) Upon expiration of the royalty term for a Licensed Product in a country as described
above, Genentech shall thereafter have an exclusive, fully paid-up, irrevocable license under the
IDEC Patents, IDEC Know-how and IDEC regulatory submissions to make, use, sell, offer for sale,
have sold and import that Licensed Product in that country. Upon expiration of the royalty term
for a New Product or OCR in a country as described above, Genentech shall thereafter have an
non-exclusive, fully paid-up, irrevocable license under the IDEC Patents, IDEC Know-how and IDEC
regulatory submissions to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have sold and import OCR and/or that New
Product, as applicable, in that country.

7.10 Taxes . IDEC shall pay any and all taxes levied on account of, or measured exclusively
by, any payment including royalties it receives under this Agreement. If laws or regulations
require that taxes be withheld, Genentech will (i) deduct those taxes from the remittable royalty,
(ii) timely pay the taxes to the proper taxing authority, and (iii) send proof of payment to IDEC
within sixty (60) days following that payment.

7.11 Blocked Currency . In each country where the local currency is blocked and cannot be
removed from the country, at the election of Genentech, royalties accrued in that country shall be
paid to IDEC in the country in local currency by deposit in a local bank designated by IDEC.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-23- 

7.12 Foreign Exchange . For the purpose of computing Royalty-Bearing Sales for Franchise
Products sold in a currency other than United States Dollars, such currency shall be converted into
United States Dollars in accordance with Genentech s customary and usual translation procedures
consistently applied.

7.13 Payments to or Reports by Affiliates . Any payment required under any provision of this
Agreement to be made to either Party or any report required to be made by any Party shall be made
to or by an Affiliate of that Party if designated by that Party as the appropriate recipient or
reporting entity.

7.14 Sales By Sublicensees . In the event Genentech grants licenses or sublicenses to others
to make or sell Franchise Products in the Licensed Territory, or OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory
or in the Licensed Territory, such licenses or sublicenses shall include an obligation for the
licensee or sublicensee to account for and report its Royalty-Bearing Sales of such Franchise
Products and/or OCR (as applicable) on the same basis as if such sales were Royalty-Bearing Sales
by Genentech, and Genentech shall pay royalties to IDEC as if the Royalty-Bearing Sales of the
licensee or sublicensee were Royalty-Bearing Sales of Genentech.

ARTICLE 8. 
MANUFACTURE AND SUPPLY 

8.1 Process Development, Manufacturing Approvals of C2B8 . IDEC shall be responsible for, at
its own expense, process development, scale-up, validation and FDA licensure of its existing
C2B8-producing CHO cell line to the 2,750 liter fermenter scale. As soon as practicable after the
Original Effective Date, IDEC will transfer to Genentech a re-amplified CHO C2B8-producing cell
line, and, within 30 days of the Original Effective Date, transfer the technology to be licensed to
Genentech under the terms and conditions of the Expression Technology License of even date
herewith, and provide reasonable training of Genentech personnel as requested by Genentech
necessary to allow Genentech to scale up C2B8 process with the re-amplified cell line. Immediately
after receipt of IDEC s re-amplified CHO C2B8 producing cell line by Genentech, Genentech will
begin work, at its own expense, on the scale-up of a re-amplified cell line in optimal growth media
to produce C2B8 at commercial scale. If Genentech determines that such scale up is not
commercially feasible, it will so notify the JDC. Upon the decision of the JDC to go forward,
Genentech will, at its own expense, attempt to scale up another cell line selected by the JDC or
the cell line used for 2,750 liter fermenter scale production. If Genentech has successfully
scaled up a cell line to its commercial scale and IDEC is then manufacturing C2B8, Genentech will,
at its own expense, transfer the optimized cell line and information sufficient to allow IDEC to
manufacture C2B8 by essentially the same process used by Genentech except for the size of the
fermentation vessel. If bridging or any other studies are required to permit the use or sale of
C2B8 produced by Genentech by the optimized process, the costs of such clinical studies shall be
paid by Genentech, but shall be charged against Operating Profits over the first three years after
the first commercial sale of C2B8 produced by the optimized process. IDEC will otherwise be
responsible, at its own expense, for all expenses incurred in obtaining Regulatory Approvals for
the manufacturing process used to produce C2B8, except that Genentech, at its own expense, will pay
the expenses incurred to receive FDA licensure of Genentech facilities. Notwithstanding

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-24- 

anything to the contrary in this Section 8.1, costs incurred by either Party under this Section 8.1
after Regulatory Approval in the United States shall be charged to Operating Profits.

8.2 Manufacture and Supply of C2B8 . IDEC shall, pursuant to a Supply Agreement to be entered
into between the Parties prior to the date of the first submission of an application or
registration for Regulatory Approval, supply all requirements for C2B8 in final vial form for
commercial sale in all territories for the first two years after the first Regulatory Approval in
the United States or Europe, whichever comes earlier (the  Initial Commercial Period ). The
average annual Cost of Goods Sold of C2B8 packaged in final vial form during the Initial Commercial
Period shall be the lower of (i)   **   or (ii)   **  . IDEC may continue to supply, at its option,
commercial requirements for C2B8 up to the capacity of its current manufacturing plant   **   in San
Diego (the  Supply Option ). The Supply Option shall be exercised, if at all, by written notice on
or before the date of the first Regulatory Approval including a good faith estimate of IDEC s
planned production levels. If the parties determine that the FDA will not grant establishment
licenses to two manufacturing facilities using different scales of production, then the parties
will use best efforts to develop a manufacturing capacity plan by the first Regulatory Approval.
Subsequent to the Initial Commercial Period, if both Parties are manufacturing Licensed Product at
the same time, the Cost of Goods Sold for both Parties used for calculation of Operating Profits
shall be the lower of Genentech s or IDEC s actual cost of Goods Sold for commercial production of
C2B8 packaged in final vial form. After the Initial Commercial Period, Genentech shall manufacture
all requirements of C2B8 for commercial sale in excess of that which IDEC has agreed to produce.

8.3 Transfer of Materials and Know-how for C2B8 .

(a) IDEC shall on Genentech s request at any time transfer to, and fully enable Genentech
with, the then most current version of all biological materials, know-how, reagents and expertise
necessary for Genentech to undertake the manufacture of C2B8. IDEC shall periodically update
biological materials and information related to C2B8 previously transferred to Genentech. All
transfers of materials and information to Genentech shall be free of charge to Genentech; provided,
however, IDEC s obligation to train Genentech personnel in the use of such material and information
shall be limited to   **   person hours.

(b) At the time Genentech completes the commercialization scale-up described in Section 8.1,
if IDEC continues to manufacture commercial quantities of C2B8, Genentech will transfer to, and
fully enable IDEC with, the then most current version of all biological materials, know-how,
reagents and expertise applicable to the actual manufacturing process in use by IDEC necessary for
IDEC to undertake the manufacture of C2B8 provided that IDEC uses such biological materials,
know-how, reagents and expertise solely to manufacture C2B8. Genentech s obligation to train IDEC
personnel in the use of such materials or information shall be limited to   **   person hours.

(c) IDEC agrees to allow Genentech to audit, at its expense, any Regulatory Approval
documentation in the possession of IDEC concerning products other than the Licensed Products to
determine if such products utilize Genentech Patents or Genentech Know-how. Such audit(s) shall

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-25- 

be conducted by an independent party to be mutually agreed upon by Genentech and IDEC, and shall be
limited to one audit during any twelve month period.

8.4 Transfer Price of Products for C2B8 . The transfer price for C2B8 supplied to Genentech
for sale in the Licensed Territory will be   **  . IDEC will invoice Genentech within 10 days after
each shipment of C2B8 to the Licensed Territory on a shipment by shipment basis. Genentech shall
pay each invoice within thirty (30) days of receipt of both of C2B8 and invoice.

8.5 Manufacture of C2B8 for Clinical Trials .

(a) IDEC will supply at no cost all quantities of C2B8 for pre-clinical studies and clinical
trials in the Co-Promotion Territory directed toward obtaining the first Regulatory Approval in the
Co-Promotion Territory.

(b) IDEC shall supply to Genentech, at IDEC s   **   until the beginning of the Initial
Commercial Period and at   **   thereafter, all quantities of C2B8 for preclinical studies and
clinical trials in the Licensed Territory or for expanded needs beyond those set forth in the
original Development Plan.

8.6 Manufacture and Supply of Franchise Products (other than C2B8) . Genentech shall be
responsible, and have complete decision making control for all process development, scale-up,
validation and FDA licensure for the manufacture of all Franchise Products (other than C2B8) in the
Co-Promotion Territory, the cost of which shall be considered Development Costs pursuant to this
Agreement. In addition, Genentech, either itself or through a third party manufacturer, shall be
responsible for the manufacture and supply of clinical and commercial supply of New Products for
the Co-Promotion Territory (Genentech shall use commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to
maintain a reasonable Cost of Goods Sold for manufacture and supply of all Franchise Products).
Genentech shall be responsible, and have complete decision making control, for all process
development, scale-up, validation and FDA licensure for the manufacture of (i) OCR in the
Co-Promotion Territory and Licensed Territory and (ii) all Franchise Products in the Licensed
Territory.

8.7 Right of First Negotiation for Manufacture and Supply of Franchise Products in the
Co-Promotion Territory.  In the event Genentech decides to seek a Third Party (other than F.
Hoffmann La Roche AG) to manufacture and supply a particular Franchise Product, in the Co-Promotion
Territory, Genentech shall promptly notify IDEC in writing. IDEC shall have thirty (30) days from
the date of Genentech s notice to IDEC to provide written notice to Genentech that it elects to
negotiate with Genentech the rights under which it may manufacture and supply such Franchise
Product in the Co-Promotion Territory, and a failure to timely so elect shall be deemed a decision
not to negotiate for such rights. In the event that IDEC timely notifies Genentech of its desire
to engage in such negotiations, then for a period of ninety (90) days, Genentech and IDEC shall use
good faith efforts to agree upon terms under which IDEC would manufacture and supply such Franchise
Product in the Co-Promotion Territory. In the event that IDEC and Genentech have not entered into
a definitive agreement within ninety (90) days of IDEC s election to negotiate, then

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-26- 

Genentech shall be free to grant to any Third Party the right to manufacture and supply such
Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion Territory on any terms that Genentech considers appropriate.

ARTICLE 9. 
LICENSES 

9.1 Licensed Products 

(a) Licenses To Genentech Within The Field . IDEC grants to Genentech a worldwide license
(including Asia, pursuant to the First Amendment) under the IDEC Patents and IDEC Know-how and IDEC
regulatory submissions in the Field to develop, make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, have
sold and import Licensed Products. Such license shall be co-exclusive with IDEC in the
Co-Promotion Territory and exclusive even as to IDEC in the Licensed Territory.

(b) Nonexclusive License To IDEC . Genentech grants IDEC a nonexclusive license in the United
States and Canada to use Genentech Know-how and Genentech Patents in the Field solely for the
purposes of developing, manufacturing, having manufactured, using, selling, offering for sale,
having sold and importing C2B8 and such additional Licensed Products as the Parties mutually agree
to develop in the Co-Promotion Territory. IDEC covenants and agrees not to develop, make, have
made, use, sell, offer for sale, have sold or import any product using any of the Genentech
Know-how or Genentech Patents outside of the Field. If Genentech is sublicensing any Third Party
patents under this grant, IDEC shall pay any royalties owed to any such Third Party on account of
the manufacture, use or sale of any Licensed Products by IDEC. Genentech further grants to IDEC a
co-exclusive (with Genentech) license to use Genentech regulatory submissions in the Field solely
for the purposes of developing, manufacturing, having manufactured, using, selling, offering for
sale, having sold and importing C2B8 and such additional Licensed Products as the Parties mutually
agree to develop in the Co-Promotion Territory.

9.2 New Products 

(a) Nonexclusive License to Genentech . IDEC grants to Genentech a worldwide, nonexclusive
license under the IDEC Patents, IDEC Know-how and IDEC regulatory submissions in the Field to
develop, make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, have sold and import G2H7 and each other New
Product.

(b) License to IDEC in the Co-Promotion Territory . Genentech grants to IDEC a co-exclusive
(with Genentech) license under the Genentech Patents, Genentech NP Patents, Genentech Know-how and
Genentech regulatory submissions in the Field in the United States to develop, use, sell, offer for
sale, have sold and import G2H7 and each other New Product. Genentech does not grant any license
or rights to IDEC regarding development or commercialization of New Products outside the Field or
outside of the United States, and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as granting IDEC any
license or right to control the

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-27- 

development and/or commercialization of New Products outside the Field and outside the United
States.

9.2a OCR.  IDEC hereby grants to Genentech an exclusive (even as to IDEC) license, under the
IDEC Patents, IDEC Know-How, IDEC s interests in Joint Patents and Joint Know-How, and IDEC
regulatory submissions in the Field, to develop, make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, have
sold and import OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory and Licensed Territory.

9.3 Sublicensing . Genentech may grant sublicenses to its rights under this Agreement with the
prior written consent of IDEC, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld; except that the
consent of IDEC is not required for Genentech to grant sublicenses regarding the development or
commercialization of OCR which sublicenses do not also include a sublicense for a Franchise Product
        . IDEC hereby consents to such a sublicense to F. Hoffmann La Roche or any of its affiliates.
Unless otherwise agreed, each sublicensee shall be subject to all of the obligations of Genentech
hereunder applicable to that part of the territory being licensed.

9.4 Inclusion of Asia in the Licensed Territory . If a license in Asia becomes available on an
exclusive basis with respect to C2B8, IDEC shall notify Genentech in writing. If such notification
is prior to or on December 31, 1995, then Genentech shall pay IDEC   **   upon signing of an
amendment to this Agreement to include such territory in the Licensed Territory. After December
31, 1995, Genentech shall have the option to include Asia in the Licensed Territory, if available,
on sixty (60) days written notice, for the   **   license issue fee payable pursuant to this Section.
IDEC agrees to use its best efforts within 90 days of the Original Effective Date to obtain at
least a co-exclusive license for Genentech in the Asian territory. The consideration to IDEC for a
co-exclusive license involving Genentech in the Asian territory shall not be less than   **  , of
which Genentech shall pay no more than   **  . If Asia is added to the Licensed Territory, it shall
be subject to the same terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, provided that Genentech
shall have no obligation to make any additional payments with respect to such added Asian territory
other than royalties as specified in this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this Section 9.4, the Parties acknowledge that Asia, pursuant to the First Amendment, is included
within the Licensed Territory.

9.5 Shared Information . All of the information described in Section 14.1 below shall be
deemed IDEC Know-how and Genentech Know-how for purposes of this Article 9 and the licenses granted
herein.

9.6 Third Party Rights.  In the event that IDEC or Genentech becomes aware of any Third Party
rights that may be relevant to development, manufacture or commercialization of the Franchise
Products in the Co-Promotion Territory, that Party shall promptly notify the other Party. To the
extent that the Parties mutually agree that such rights are necessary to develop, manufacture or
commercialize the Franchise Products in the Co-Promotion Territory, the Parties shall discuss an
appropriate course of action to obtain a license to such rights in order to further the objectives
of the Parties under this Agreement.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-28- 

ARTICLE 10. 
TRADEMARKS 

10.1 (a) Product Trademarks for Licensed Products . All Licensed Products shall be sold in the
Co-Promotion Territory under trademarks selected by the JCC and owned jointly by Genentech and IDEC
in the Co-Promotion Territory and Licensed Territory. The JCC shall use best efforts to select a
worldwide trademark. Each Party hereby grants the other a fully-paid co-exclusive license to use
its trademarks in the Co-Promotion Territory for the Co-Promotion activities provided for in this
Agreement. IDEC shall control preparation, prosecution and maintenance of applications related to
such trademarks and the costs in the Co-Promotion Territory ( Trademark Costs ) shall (i) prior to
Regulatory Approval in the United States, be paid by IDEC, and (ii) after Regulatory Approval in
the United States, be included in Other Operating Income/Expense pursuant to Exhibit A. Genentech
shall control preparation, prosecution, maintenance and applications related to trademarks in the
Licensed Territory and shall pay all costs incurred with respect thereto, and will notify IDEC if
Genentech believes in good faith that sole ownership of the trademark in a particular country in
the Licensed Territory is the best method to protect the trademark, in which case Genentech shall
be the sole owner of such trademark.

(b) Trademarks for New Products . G2H7 and each other New Product shall be sold in the
Co-Promotion Territory under trademarks selected by the JCC and owned jointly by Genentech and IDEC
in the Co-Promotion Territory. The JCC shall use best efforts to select a worldwide trademark.
Each Party hereby grants the other a fully-paid co-exclusive license to use its trademarks in the
Co-Promotion Territory for the Co-Promotion activities provided for in this Agreement. Genentech
shall control preparation, prosecution and maintenance of applications related to such trademarks
and the Trademark Costs associated with New Products in the Co-Promotion Territory shall be
included in Other Operating Income/Expense pursuant to Exhibit A. Genentech shall solely own, and
control preparation, prosecution, maintenance and applications related to such trademarks outside
the United States and shall pay all costs incurred with respect thereto.

(c) Trademarks for OCR.  Genentech shall own all right, title and interest in and to all OCR
Trademarks, and Genentech shall have sole authority and responsibility, at its expense, for the
selection, prosecution and maintenance of, all OCR Trademarks. Any and all right, title or
interest in, to or under any OCR Trademark, including any goodwill which has accrued or may accrue
to the benefit of IDEC shall hereby be assigned to and inure to the sole benefit of Genentech.
IDEC shall not, at any time, apply for any trademarks or other protection that would affect
Genentech s ownership or use of any rights in the OCR Trademarks, or file any document with any
government authority or take any other action that would affect Genentech s ownership or use of the
OCR Trademarks, or assist any Third Party in doing so. The costs and expenses for the preparation,
prosecution and maintaince of OCR Trademarks shall be the sole responsibility of Genentech.

10.2 Infringement of Trademarks . Each Party shall notify the JCC promptly upon learning of
any actual, alleged or threatened infringement of a trademark applicable to a Franchise Product
(the  Trademark ) in the Co-Promotion Territory or of any unfair trade practices, trade dress
imitation, passing off of counterfeit goods, or like offenses in the Co-Promotion Territory. Upon

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-29- 

learning of such offenses from a Party regarding a jointly owned Trademark, the JMC shall confer
with the Parties regarding which Party and counsel should be assigned to defend the Trademark. The
Party defending the Trademark shall take all reasonable and appropriate steps to protect, defend
and maintain the Trademark for use by the Parties in connection with the Franchise Product. Upon
learning of such an offense from a Party regarding a Trademark owned solely by one of the Parties,
and not provided for above in this Section, the JCC shall confer with the Parties regarding the
defense of such Trademark. The decision whether and how to defend such a Trademark owned solely by
one Party will rest with such Party.

10.3 Costs of Defense for Trademarks . All of the costs, expenses and legal fees in bringing,
maintaining and prosecuting any action to maintain, protect or defend a jointly owned Trademark in
the Co-Promotion Territory, and any recovery shall be included in the Other Operating
Income/Expense. All of the costs, expenses and legal, fees in bringing, maintaining and
prosecuting any action to maintain, protect or defend a Trademark in the Licensed Territory or a
OCR Trademark in either the Licensed Territory or Co-Promotion Territory shall be paid by, and any
recovery shall be paid to, Genentech.

ARTICLE 11. 
CONFIDENTIALITY 

11.1 Confidentiality; Exceptions . Except to the extent expressly authorized by this Agreement
or otherwise agreed in writing, the Parties agree that, for the term of this Agreement and for
seven (7) years thereafter, the receiving Party shall keep confidential and shall not publish or
otherwise disclose or use for any purpose other than as provided for in this Agreement any
Information and other information and materials furnished to it by the other Party pursuant to this
Agreement (collectively,  Confidential Information ), except to the extent that it can be
established by the receiving Party that such Confidential Information:

(a) was already known to the receiving Party, other than under an obligation of
confidentiality, at the time of disclosure by the other Party;

(b) was generally available to the public or otherwise part of the public domain at the time
of its disclosure to the receiving Party;

(c) became generally available to the public or otherwise part of the public domain after its
disclosure and other than through any act or omission of the receiving Party in breach of this
Agreement;

(d) was disclosed to the receiving Party, other than under an obligation of confidentiality,
by a Third Party who had no obligation to the disclosing Party not to disclose such information to
others; or.

(e) was subsequently developed by the receiving Party without use of the Confidential
Information as demonstrated by competent written records.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-30- 

11.2 Authorized Disclosure . Each Party may disclose Confidential Information hereunder to the
extent such disclosure is reasonably necessary in filing or prosecuting patent applications,
prosecuting or defending litigation, complying with applicable governmental regulations or
conducting preclinical or clinical trials, provided that if a Party is required by law or
regulation to make any such disclosure of the other Party s Confidential Information it will,
except where impracticable for necessary disclosures, for example in the event of medical
emergency, give reasonable advance notice to the other Party of such disclosure requirement and,
except to the extent inappropriate in the case of patent applications, will use its reasonable
efforts to secure confidential treatment of such Confidential Information required to be disclosed.
In addition, each Party shall be entitled to disclose, under a binder of confidentiality
containing provisions as protective as those of this Article 11, Confidential Information to
consultants and other Third Parties only for any purpose provided for in this Agreement. Nothing
in this Article 11 shall restrict any Party from using for any purpose any Information developed by
it during the course of the collaboration hereunder.

11.3 Survival . This Article 11 shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement
for a period of seven (7) years.

11.4 Termination of Prior Agreement . This Agreement supersedes the Confidentiality Agreement
between the Parties dated September 9, 1994. All Information exchanged between the Parties under
that Agreement shall be deemed Confidential Information and shall be subject to the terms of this
Article 11.

11.5 Publications . Prior to the end of Phase II Clinical Trials of each Franchise Product in
the Co-Promotion Territory and subject to the applicable publication provisions of any Clinical
Trial Agreements with investigators, the JDC with appropriate input from the JCC will determine the
overall strategy for publication in support of such Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion
Territory. Except as required by law, each Party agrees that it shall not publish or present the
results of studies carried out as part of the collaboration without the approval of the JDC and the
opportunity for prior review by the other Party. Each Party shall provide to the other the
opportunity to review any proposed abstracts, manuscripts or presentations (including information
to be presented verbally) which relate to any Franchise Product at least thirty (30) days prior to
their intended submission for publication and such submitting Party agrees, upon written request
from the other Party, not to submit such abstract or manuscript for publication or to make such
presentation until the other Party is given a reasonable period of time to seek patent protection
for any material in such publication or presentation which it believes is patentable. Genentech
may, without IDEC s consent or prior review, publish or present the results of studies carried out
with OCR, provided such publication or presentation does not disclose Confidential Information of
IDEC.

ARTICLE 12. 
OWNERSHIP OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PATENT RIGHTS 

12.1 Modified Definitions . For purposes of this Article 12, IDEC Patents, Genentech Patents
and Genentech NP Patents shall not include Patents owned jointly by the Parties.  Joint

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-31- 

Patents  shall mean Patents owned jointly by the Parties which cover the manufacture, use or sale
of Franchise Products or OCR.

12.2 Ownership of Intellectual Property . IDEC shall own all inventions made under this
Agreement solely by it or its employees. Genentech shall own all inventions made under this
Agreement solely by its employees. All inventions made under this Agreement jointly by employees
of IDEC and Genentech will be owned jointly by IDEC and Genentech and each Party shall retain full
ownership under any Patents resulting therefrom, with full ownership rights in any field and
subject to the licenses granted in Article 9, the right to sublicense without the consent of the
other Party, without accounting. The laws of the United States with respect to joint ownership of
inventions shall apply in all jurisdictions giving force and effect to this Agreement. The Parties
shall jointly own Joint Know-how.

12.3 Disclosure of Patentable Inventions . In addition to the disclosures required under
Article 14, each Party shall provide to the other, any written invention disclosure submitted to a
Party s legal department in the normal course which discloses an invention made under this
Agreement that is useful in the Field, except that Genentech shall not be required to disclose to
IDEC inventions made following the Second Restatement Date related solely to OCR made solely by
employees of Genentech and/or its collaboration partners other than IDEC. Such invention
disclosures shall be provided to the other Party within thirty (30) days after the Party commences
preparation of a patent application based on such disclosure.

12.4 Coordination . The Parties intend to prosecute and manage IDEC Patents, Genentech Patents
and Genentech NP Patents for the purpose of providing the broadest protection for Franchise
Products and OCR. The Parties will share information and each Party will consider the views of the
other Party with respect to the scope of claims and decisions regarding the prosecution and
maintenance of such Patents as necessary to achieve such purpose.

12.5 Prosecution of Existing Patents .

(a) IDEC shall disclose to Genentech the complete texts of all IDEC Patents filed by IDEC
prior to the Restated Effective Date which claim the manufacture, use or sale of Franchise Products
as well as all information received concerning the institution or possible institution of any
interference, opposition, reexamination, reissue, revocation, nullification or any official
proceeding involving an IDEC Patent anywhere in the Co-Promotion Territory or Licensed Territory.
Genentech shall have the right to review all such IDEC Patents and all proceedings related thereto
and make recommendations to IDEC concerning them and their conduct and IDEC shall consider in good
faith for the Co-Promotion Territory and take into account for the Licensed Territory Genentech s
reasonable comments related thereto. IDEC agrees to keep Genentech promptly and fully informed of
the course of patent prosecution or other proceedings of such IDEC Patents including by providing
Genentech with copies of substantive communications, search reports and third party observations
submitted to or received from patent offices within the Co-Promotion Territory or Licensed
Territory. Genentech shall provide such patent consultation to IDEC related to such IDEC Patents
at no cost to IDEC. All reasonable costs that IDEC incurs after the Original Effective Date in
filing, prosecuting and maintaining IDEC Patents in the Co-Promotion Territory shall be borne by
IDEC until the date of Regulatory Approval and thereafter

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-32- 

shall be charged to Other Operating Income/Expense. All such reasonable costs which IDEC will
incur in the Licensed Territory shall be reimbursed by Genentech; provided, however, that Genentech
shall have the right to determine which countries within the Licensed Territory in which to file,
prosecute and maintain IDEC Patents. Genentech shall hold all information disclosed to it under
this Article 12 as confidential subject to the provisions of Article 11 of this Agreement.
Genentech shall have the right to assume responsibility for any IDEC Patent or any part of any such
Patent which IDEC intends to abandon or otherwise cause or allow to be forfeited provided that the
claims of such IDEC Patent covers Franchise Product or formulations, methods of manufacture or
methods of use thereof.

(b) Genentech shall have the right, using in-house or outside legal counsel selected at
Genentech s sole discretion, to prepare, file, prosecute, maintain and obtain extensions of
Genentech Patents, Genentech NP Patents or Joint Patents filed prior to the Restated Effective Date
in countries of Genentech s choice throughout the Licensed Territory and in such countries within
the Co-Promotion Territory as agreed by the Parties with appropriate credit to IDEC
representatives, including the naming of such parties as inventors where appropriate. Genentech
shall bear the costs relating to such activities in the Licensed Territory at all times and in the
Co-Promotion Territory until Regulatory Approval in the United States. Such costs in the
Co-Promotion Territory after Regulatory Approval in the United States shall be included in Other
Operating Income/Expense pursuant to Exhibit A. Genentech shall disclose to IDEC the complete text
of, and shall use reasonable efforts to solicit IDEC s advice and review of the nature and text of,
all Genentech Patents, Genentech NP Patents and Joint Patents and material prosecution matters
related thereto in reasonably sufficient time prior to filing thereof, and Genentech shall consider
in good faith for the Co-Promotion Territory and take into account for the Licensed Territory
IDEC s reasonable comments related thereto.

12.6 Prosecution of New Patents .

(a) Genentech shall have the first right, using in-house or outside legal counsel selected at
Genentech s sole discretion, to prepare, file, prosecute, maintain and obtain extensions of
Genentech Patents, Genentech NP Patents or Joint Patents filed after the Restated Effective Date in
countries of Genentech s choice throughout the Licensed Territory and in such countries within the
Co-Promotion Territory as agreed by the Parties with appropriate credit to IDEC
representatives, including the naming of such parties as inventors where appropriate. Genentech
shall bear the costs relating to such activities in the Licensed Territory at all times and in the
Co-Promotion Territory until Regulatory Approval in the United States. Such costs in the
Co-Promotion Territory after Regulatory Approval in the United States shall be included in Other
Operating Income/Expense pursuant to Exhibit A. Genentech shall disclose to IDEC the complete text
of, and shall use reasonable efforts to solicit IDEC s advice and review of the nature and text of,
all Genentech Patents, Genentech NP Patents and Joint Patents and material prosecution matters
related thereto in reasonably sufficient time prior to filing thereof, and Genentech shall consider
in good faith IDEC s reasonable comments related thereto.

(b) IDEC shall have the first right, using in-house or outside legal counsel selected at
IDEC s sole discretion, to prepare, file, prosecute, maintain and obtain extensions of IDEC Patents

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-33- 

filed after the Restated Effective Date in countries agreed to by the Parties within the
Co-Promotion Territory and in countries of Genentech s choice within the Licensed Territory. IDEC
shall disclose to Genentech the complete text of, and shall use reasonable efforts to solicit
Genentech s advice and review of the nature and text of, such IDEC Patents and material prosecution
matters related thereto in reasonably sufficient time prior to filing thereof, and IDEC shall (i)
in the Co-Promotion Territory consider in good faith Genentech s reasonable comments related
thereto and (ii) in the Licensed Territory take into account Genentech s reasonable comments
related thereto. All reasonable costs related to preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and
extending IDEC Patents shall be (i) prior to Regulatory Approval in the United States, paid by IDEC
and (ii) after Regulatory Approval in the United States, included in Other Operating Income/Expense
pursuant to Exhibit A for activities within the Co-Promotion Territory and reimbursed by Genentech
to IDEC for activities within the Licensed Territory.

(c) If Genentech, prior or subsequent to filing any Genentech Patents, Genentech NP Patents or
Joint Patents, elects not to file, prosecute or maintain such Patents or certain claims encompassed
by such Patents, Genentech shall give IDEC notice thereof within a reasonable period prior to
allowing such Patents or certain claims encompassed by such Patents to lapse or become abandoned or
unenforceable, and IDEC shall thereafter have the right, at its sole expense, to prepare, file,
prosecute and maintain Patents or certain claims encompassed by such Patents that claim Franchise
Products or formulations, methods of manufacture or methods of use thereof in countries of its
choice throughout the world. If IDEC, prior or subsequent to filing IDEC Patents, elects not to
file, prosecute or maintain such Patents or certain claims encompassed by such Patents that claim
Franchise Products or OCR, or formulations, methods of manufacture or methods of use thereof, IDEC
shall give Genentech notice thereof within a reasonable period prior to allowing such Patents or
certain claims encompassed by such Patents to lapse or become abandoned or unenforceable, and
Genentech shall thereafter have the right, at its sole expense, to prepare, file prosecute and
maintain such Patents or certain claims encompassed by such Patents in countries of its choice
throughout the world.

(d) The Party filing Joint Patents shall do so in the name of and on behalf of both Genentech
and IDEC. Each of IDEC and Genentech shall hold all information it presently knows or acquires
under this Paragraph which is related to all such Patents as confidential subject to the provisions
of Article 11 of this Agreement.

12.6a Prosecution of Genentech OCR Patents . Genentech shall have the sole right, using
in-house or outside legal counsel selected at Genentech s sole discretion, to prepare, file,
prosecute, maintain and obtain extensions of Genentech OCR Patents in countries of Genentech s
choice throughout the Licensed Territory and the Co-Promotion Territory. Genentech shall bear the
costs relating to such activities in the Licensed Territory and the Co-Promotion Territory
incurred.

12.7 Waiver. 

(a) IDEC on behalf of itself and its directors, employees, officers, shareholders, agents,
successors and assigns hereby waives any and all actions and causes of action, claims and demands

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-34- 

whatsoever, in law or equity of any kind it or they may have against Genentech, its officers,
directors, employees, shareholders, agents, successors and assigns, which may arise in any way
except as a result of Genentech s gross negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct in
performance of its rights or obligations under Section 12.5 or Section 12.6 of this Agreement.

(b) Genentech on behalf of itself and its directors, employees, officers, shareholders,
agents, successors and assigns hereby waives any and all actions and causes of action, claims and
demands whatsoever, in law or equity of any kind it or they may have against IDEC, its officers,
directors, employees, shareholders, agents, successors and assigns, which may arise in any way
except as a result of IDEC s gross negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct in performance
of its rights or obligations under Section 12.5 or Section 12.6 of this Agreement.

12.8 Further Assurances . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.5 or Section 12.6 or
12.6a of this Agreement, each Party shall, at its own expense, provide reasonable assistance to the
other Party to facilitate filing of all Patents covering inventions referred to in Section 12.2 of
this Agreement and shall execute all documents deemed necessary or desirable therefor.

12.9 Initial Filings If Made Outside of the United States . The Parties agree to use
reasonable efforts to ensure that any IDEC Patent, Genentech Patent, Genentech NP Patent or Joint
Patent filed outside of the United States prior to a U.S. filing will be in a form sufficient to
establish the date of original filing as a priority date for the purposes of a subsequent U.S.
filing and that the requisite foreign filing license will be obtained.

12.10 Patent Enforcement .

(a)  Notice . In the event that IDEC or Genentech becomes aware of actual or threatened
infringement of a patent related to Franchise Product, anywhere in the world, that Party shall
promptly notify the other Party in writing.

(b)  IDEC Patents . IDEC shall have the first right but not the obligation to bring an
infringement action or file any other appropriate action or claim directly related to infringement
of an IDEC Patent , wherein such infringement relates to a Franchise Product, against any Third
Party. The costs of patent enforcement and related recoveries associated with the Co-Promotion
Territory incurred by IDEC shall be included in Other Operating Income/Expense. Such patent
enforcement costs in the Licensed Territory shall be borne by IDEC. If IDEC does not commence a
particular infringement action within ninety (90) days after it received such written notice,
Genentech, after notifying IDEC in writing, shall be entitled to bring such infringement action or
any other appropriate action or claim at its own expense. The Party conducting such action shall
consider in good faith the other Party s comments on the conduct of such action. Recovery from any
settlement or judgment from such action in the Licensed Territory shall go first to reimburse the
expenses of the Parties and the remainder shall be shared by the Parties in proportion to their
respective economic interests. In any event, IDEC and Genentech shall assist one another and
reasonably cooperate in any such litigation at the other s request without expense to the
requesting Party.

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-35- 

(c)  Genentech Patents and Genentech NP Patents . Genentech shall have the first right but
not the obligation to bring an infringement action or file any other appropriate action or claim
directly related to infringement of a Genentech Patent or Genentech NP Patent, wherein such
infringement relates to Franchise Product, against any Third Party. The costs of patent
enforcement and related recoveries associated with the Co-Promotion Territory incurred by Genentech
shall be charged to Other Operating Income/Expense. Such patent enforcement costs in the Licensed
Territory shall be borne by Genentech. Recovery from any settlement or judgment from such action
in the Licensed Territory shall go first to reimburse the expenses of the Parties and the remainder
shall be shared by the Parties in proportion to their respective economic interests.

(d)  Joint Patents . Upon notice of an alleged infringement of a Joint Patent, the Parties will
discuss in good faith an appropriate course of action to further the objectives of the Parties
under this Agreement.

(e)  Genentech OCR Patents and OCR Related Infringement . Genentech shall have the sole right,
but not the obligation, to bring an infringement action or file any other appropriate action or
claim directly related to infringement of (i) a Genentech OCR Patent in both the Co-Promotion
Territory and Licensed Territory and (ii) a Genentech Patent or Genentech NP Patent, wherein such
infringement relates to OCR. IDEC shall be responsible for   **   of the costs of enforcement of a
Genentech OCR Patent associated with the Co-Promotion Territory incurred by Genentech, such amounts
to be paid to Genentech within thirty (30) days of receipt by IDEC of an invoice for such amounts.
All monies recovered upon the final judgment or settlement of any patent enforcement of a Genentech
OCR Patent associated with the Co-Promotion Territory shall be used: (i) first, to reimburse each
party for their respective share of out-of-pocket expenses relating to the action; and (ii) second,
any remaining balance shall be shared by the Parties with IDEC receiving   **   and Genentech
receiving   **   of such remaining balance. The costs of patent enforcement of a Genentech OCR
Patent associated with the Licensed Territory incurred by Genentech shall be borne by Genentech.
Recovery from any settlement or judgment from such enforcement in the Licensed Territory shall go
first to reimburse the expenses of the Parties and the remainder shall be shared by the Parties in
proportion to their respective economic interests in OCR in the Licensed Territory.

12.11 Infringement Defens e.

(a)  Defense in the Co-Promotion Territory . If a Third Party asserts that a patent or other
right owned by it is infringed by any Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion Territory, the JMC
shall establish a plan for a common defense and select the Party responsible for managing such
plan. The costs of any such action incurred by one or both of the Parties at the direction of the
JMC (including the costs of any judgment, award, decree or settlement) will be chargeable to the
collaboration as Other Operating Income/Expense pursuant to Exhibit A.

(b)  Defense in the Licensed Territory . If a Third Party asserts that a patent or other right
owned by it is infringed by any Franchise Product in the Licensed Territory, Genentech will be
solely responsible for deciding how and whether to defend against any such assertions at its cost
and expense. If Genentech is required to pay royalties to such Third Party as a result of such
action, it

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-36- 

will be entitled to deduct   **   of such royalties against royalties owing to IDEC under, but only
to the extent permitted by, Section 7.7(e).

(c)  Defense of OCR.  If a Third Party asserts that a patent or other right owned by it is
infringed by OCR, Genentech will be solely responsible for deciding how and whether to defend
against any such assertions at its cost and expense. If Genentech is required to pay royalties to
such Third Party as a result of such action, it will be entitled to deduct a percentage of such
royalties against royalties owing to IDEC under, but only to the extent permitted by, Section
7.7(e).

ARTICLE 13. 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 

13.1 Representations and Warranties . Each of the Parties hereby represents and warrants, as
of the Restated Effective Date, as follows:

(a) This Agreement is a legal and valid obligation binding upon such Party and enforceable in
accordance with its terms. The execution, delivery and performance of the Agreement by such Party
does not conflict with any agreement, instrument or understanding, oral or written, to which it is
a party or by which it is bound, nor violate any law or regulation of any court, governmental body
or administrative or other agency having jurisdiction over it.

(b) Such Party has not, and during the term of the Agreement will not, grant any right to any
Third Party relating to its respective Patents and Know-how in the Field which would conflict with
the rights granted to the other Party hereunder.

(c) Each Party represents and warrants that it has the right to grant the licenses granted
herein.

(d) Except as set forth on Exhibit D of the Original Agreement, IDEC is not obligated under
any agreement as of the Original Effective Date to pay any Third Party royalties with respect to
C2B8

As used in this Section 13.1,  Patents  means IDEC Patent with respect to IDEC, and Genentech
Patents and Genentech NP Patents with respect to Genentech; and  Know-how  means IDEC Know-how with
respect to IDEC, and Genentech Know-how with respect to Genentech.

13.2 Performance by Affiliates . The Parties recognize that each may perform some or all of
its obligations under this Agreement through Affiliates,  provided, however,  that each Party shall
remain responsible and be guarantor of the performance by its Affiliates and shall cause its
Affiliates to comply with the provisions of this Agreement in connection with such performance.

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-37- 

ARTICLE 14. 
INFORMATION AND REPORTS 

14.1 Information . Genentech and IDEC will disclose and make available to each other all
preclinical, clinical, regulatory, commercial and other information with respect to Franchise
Products, including without limitation all information relevant to the joint promotion of Franchise
Products, developed by Genentech or IDEC concerning Franchise Products at any time during the term
of this Agreement. Each Party will use commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to disclose to
the other Party all
such significant information promptly after it is learned or its significance is appreciated. Each
Party shall own and maintain its own database of clinical trial data accumulated from all clinical
trials of Franchise Products for which it was responsible and of adverse drug event information for
all Franchise Products. At the option of the requesting Party, such data shall be provided in a
computer readable format by the providing Party, to the extent available, which shall also assist
in the transfer and validation of such data to the receiving Party.

14.2 Complaints . Each Party shall maintain a record of all complaints it receives with
respect to any Franchise Product. Each Party shall notify the other of any complaint received by
it in respect of a Franchise Product in sufficient detail and within five (5) business days after
the event, and in any event in sufficient time to allow the responsible Party to comply with any
and all regulatory requirements imposed upon it in any country. IDEC shall notify Genentech of any
complaint received by it in respect of OCR in sufficient detail and within five (5) business days
after the event, and in any event in sufficient time to allow Genentech to comply with any and all
regulatory requirements imposed upon it in any country.

14.3 Adverse Drug Events . The Parties recognize that the holder of a Drug Approval
Application may be required to submit information and file reports to various governmental agencies
on compounds under clinical investigation, compounds proposed for marketing, or marketed drugs.
Information must be submitted at the time of initial filing for investigational use in humans and
at the time of a request for market approval of a new drug. In addition, supplemental information
must be provided on compounds at periodic intervals and adverse drug experiences must be reported
at more frequent intervals depending on the severity of the experience. Consequently, each Party
agrees to:

(a) provide to the other for initial and/or periodic submission to government agencies
significant information on the drug from preclinical laboratory, animal toxicology and pharmacology
studies, as well as adverse drug experience reports from clinical trials and commercial experiences
with the compound;

(b) in connection with investigational drugs, report to the other within three (3) days of the
initial receipt of a report of any unexpected or serious experience with the drug, or sooner if
required for either Party to comply with regulatory requirements; and

(c) in connection with marketed drugs, report to the other within five (5) business days of
the initial receipt of a report of any adverse experience with the drug that is serious and
unexpected or sooner if required for either Party to comply with regulatory requirements. Serious
adverse

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-38- 

experiences mean any experience that suggests a significant hazard, contraindication, side
effect or precaution, or any experience that is fatal or life threatening, is permanently
disabling, requires or prolongs inpatient hospitalization, or is a congenital anomaly, cancer, or
overdose. An unexpected adverse experience is one not identified in nature, specificity, severity
or frequency in the current investigator brochure or the U.S. labeling for the drug. Each Party
also agrees that if it contracts with a Third Party for research to be performed by such Third
Party on the drug, that Party agrees to require such Third Party to report to contracting Party the
information set forth in subparagraph (a), (b), and (c) above.

14.4 Records of Net Sales and Costs . Each Party will maintain complete and accurate records
which are relevant to costs, expenses, sales and payments under this Agreement and such records
shall be open during reasonable business hours for a period of three (3) years from creation of
individual records for examination at the other Party s expense, and, with respect to the audit
provisions of Section A.6.1 and A.6.2 of Exhibit A, such examination shall not be conducted more
often than once each year by an independent public accountant selected by the other Party as
described in A.6 of Exhibit A. Any records or accounting information received
from the other Party shall be Confidential Information for purposes of Article 11. Results of any
such audit shall be provided to both Parties, subject to Article 11.

14.5 Publicity Review . The Parties agree that the public announcement of the execution of
this Agreement shall be in the form of a press release to be agreed upon on or before the Restated
Effective Date and thereafter each Party shall be entitled to make or publish any public statement
consistent with the contents thereof. Thereafter, IDEC and Genentech will jointly discuss and
agree, based on the principles of this Section 14.5, on any statement to the public regarding this
Agreement or any aspect of this Agreement subject in each case to disclosure otherwise required by
law or regulation as determined in good faith by each Party. The principles to be observed by IDEC
and Genentech in such public disclosures will be: accuracy, the requirements for confidentiality
under Article 11, the advantage a competitor of IDEC or Genentech may gain from any public
statements under this Section 14.5, and the standards and customs in the biotechnology and
pharmaceutical industries for such disclosures by companies comparable to IDEC and Genentech. The
terms of this Agreement may also be disclosed to (i) government agencies where required by law, or
(ii) Third Parties with the prior written consent of the other Party, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld, so long as such disclosure is made under a binder of confidentiality and so
long as highly sensitive terms and conditions such as financial terms are extracted from the
Agreement or not disclosed upon the request of the other Party.

ARTICLE 15. 
TERM AND TERMINATION 

15.1 Term . This Agreement, which shall commence as of the Second Restated Effective Date,
shall continue the collaboration contemplated by the Parties under the 2003 Restated Agreement, and
the Original Agreement, including the First Amendment and Second Amendment thereto, as modified
hereby. The Parties have specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-39- 

the term during which
certain rights and obligations hereunder shall apply. Unless sooner terminated as provided herein
and except as provided in Section 15.2 below, (a) the remaining provisions of this Agreement
relating to activities in the Co-Promotion Territory shall continue in effect until the date on
which the Parties are no longer entitled to receive a share of Operating Profits or Losses on any
Franchise Product, (b) the remaining provisions of this Agreement relating to activities in the
Licensed Territory, or with respect to OCR, shall continue in effect until the date on which
Genentech is no longer required to pay a royalty on Royalty-Bearing Sales in the Licensed Territory
or on OCR, and (c) the remaining provisions of this Agreement relating to activities with respect
to OCR shall continue in effect until the date on which Genentech is no longer required to pay a
royalty on Royalty-Bearing Sales of OCR. Those provisions shall govern the term of the rights and
obligations specifically covered thereby. Upon the expiration, but not an earlier termination, of
this Agreement, all licenses granted by either Party to the other Party hereunder shall become
fully paid up and irrevocable.

15.2 Sale or Purchase of Co-Promotion Rights on Change of Control .

(a) Purchase Option with respect to all Franchise Products and Third Party Anti-CD20 Products. 
Genentech may, by written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to IDEC (the
 Auction Notice ), indicate a single price (the  Auction Price ) at which Genentech would be
willing to purchase from IDEC all of the rights held by IDEC hereunder with respect to all Licensed
Products in the Co-Promotion Territory (the  Purchase Option ). This right will be exercisable at
any time if (i) a single stockholder or group of affiliated stockholders, other than Genentech or
an Affiliate, who would be required to file a Schedule 13D under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, acquires or obtains the right to acquire voting stock of IDEC so that its total
holdings of such stock equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the then outstanding voting stock of IDEC, or (ii) a Third Party acquires or obtains the right to
acquire all or substantially all of the assets of IDEC, in which case Genentech must exercise such
right within ninety (90) days after the date on which such stockholder or group of stockholders
passes the fifty percent (50%) threshold or the date of such acquisition. Either such event shall
be referred to as a  Change of Control Event.  IDEC shall promptly notify Genentech upon IDEC s
receipt of written notice that such Change of Control Event will be occurring and shall use best
efforts to ensure that such notice is given to Genentech at least ninety (90) days before the
occurrence of such Change of Control Event. The Auction Price may be in the form of (i) cash, (ii)
a royalty on sales of the Licensed Products in the Co-Promotion Territory or (iii) some combination
of the foregoing. Concurrent with the initiation of an Auction Notice by Genentech under this
Section 15.2, a royalty price (the  Royalty Price ) at which Genentech will purchase from IDEC all
of the rights held by IDEC hereunder with respect to all New Products (including G2H7), OCR, and
Third Party Anti-CD20 Products for which IDEC entered into a written agreement with Genentech
pursuant to Section 2.6 prior to such date, in the United States shall be set. The Royalty Price
with respect to such New Products, OCR and Third Party Anti-CD20 Products shall be based on the
  **   of such product at the time of Genentech s written notice to IDEC under this Section 15.2 as
follows:

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-40- 

Stage of Product  
       
      Royalty Price  

Prior to completion of the   **   for
the product:

Compensation equivalent to   **  
of such product in the United
States; provided, IDEC (or its
successor) timely reimburses
Genentech, on a calendar quarter
basis,   **   of its Development
Costs for developing or
marketing such product in the
Co-Promotion Territory through
  **   for such product.
Genentech shall timely provide
IDEC (or its successor) with
quarterly invoices for
Development Costs incurred under
this section, and IDEC (or its
successor) shall pay such
invoices within sixty (60) days
thereof. IDEC (or its
successor) shall have the right
to audit such invoices no more
than once a calendar year, such
audit to be conducted as
provided in accordance with
Section 15.2(c)(iii). 

After completion of the   **   for the
product, but prior to   **   of such
product:

Compensation equivalent to   **  
of such product in the United
States. 

After   **   of the product:

With respect to (i) such New
Products, compensation to IDEC
or payment by IDEC to Genentech
equivalent to   **   for such New
Product in the United States,
(ii) OCR the royalty on
Royalty-Bearing Sales of OCR in
the United States set forth in
Section 7.7(a). 

With respect to such Third Party
Anti-CD20 Products, compensation
to IDEC or payment by IDEC to
Genentech equivalent to the
amount otherwise specified to be
paid on such product in the
United States   **  , as
established pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.6. 

It is understood and agreed that Genentech shall only be required to make Royalty Price payments on
such New Products or Third Party Anti-CD20 Products (which were opted in by IDEC pursuant to
Section 2.6 prior to the Auction Notice) which were under development pursuant to an approved or
proposed
Development Plan or being commercially sold at the time of such Auction Notice, and that subsequent
development of any products incorporating any protein or peptide, other than the proteins or
peptides that were incorporated into such New Products or Third Party Anti-CD20 Products, shall not
be subject to such Royalty Price payments.

(b) Sales Option with respect to all Licensed Products.  Within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the Auction Notice, IDEC shall notify Genentech in writing whether it elects to accept the Auction
Price for its rights with respect to all Licensed Products or pay Genentech the Profit Sharing
Ratio times the Auction Price for such Licensed Products (where  the Profit Sharing Ratio    **  , to
purchase all of the rights held by Genentech hereunder with respect to Licensed Products in the
Co-Promotion Territory (the  Sales Option   provided, however,  if IDEC does not notify Genentech
of its election within such period, IDEC shall be deemed to have sold its rights hereunder with
respect to the Licensed Products in the Co-Promotion Territory at the

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-41- 

Auction Price under the
Purchase Option. If Genentech has not received a response within twenty (20) days after Genentech
sends its initial notice hereunder, Genentech shall on the twentieth (20th) day after sending such
initial notice, deliver a second notice by certified mail, return receipt requested. For the
avoidance of doubt, it is understood and agreed that IDEC shall have no right under this Agreement
to purchase any of the rights held by Genentech hereunder with respect to New Products, and/or
Third Party Anti-CD20 Products for which IDEC entered into a written agreement with Genentech
pursuant to Section 2.6 prior to such date.

(c)  On that date which is thirty (30) days after receipt of the Auction Notice:

(i) all rights held by IDEC (including any successor in interest) under Section 2.5 and 2.6,
other than with respect to New Products and/or Third Party Anti-CD20-Products for which IDEC
entered into a written agreement with Genentech pursuant to Section 2.6 prior to such date, shall
terminate;

(ii) all rights held by IDEC (including any successor in interest) hereunder with respect to
New Products and OCR in the United States, and Third Party Anti-CD20 Products for which IDEC
entered into a written agreement with Genentech pursuant to Section 2.6 prior to such date,
including the right to receive further payments from Genentech shall terminate and Genentech shall
thereafter pay IDEC the Royalty Price for each such product in the United States, without offset of
any kind; such obligation to continue, on a product-by-product basis, for eleven (11) years from
the date of first commercial sale of such product in the United States (for avoidance of doubt, a
sale for  compassionate use  shall not be deemed a first commercial sale);

(iii) Genentech or its designee shall make its Royalty Price payments to IDEC or its designee
quarterly within sixty (60) days following the end of each calendar quarter for which such payments
are due. Each Royalty Price payment shall be accompanied by a report summarizing the Net Sales or
Operating Profits (or Losses), as applicable, for such New Product, OCR or Third Party Anti-CD20
Product, during the relevant calendar quarter. IDEC shall have the right, upon written notice to
Genentech, and not more often than once each calendar year, to have an independent accounting firm,
selected by IDEC and reasonably approved by Genentech, inspect Genentech s books of accounts for
the sole purpose of verifying the correctness of calculations or such costs, expenses or payments
made under this Section 15.2 with respect to sales of such products. Such audits will be conducted
at the expense of IDEC; provided, however, that if the audit results in an adjustment of greater
than   **   of Net Sales or Operating Profits (or Losses), as applicable, in any period, the cost of
the audit will be borne by Genentech. Audit results will be shared with both Parties. Audits are
limited to results in the two (2) years prior to audit notification;

(iv) if the Purchase Option was elected (or deemed to be elected) pursuant to Section 15.2(b)
with respect to all Licensed Products, all rights held by IDEC hereunder with respect to the
Licensed Products in the Co-Promotion Territory including the right to receive further payments
from Genentech shall terminate and Genentech shall pay IDEC   **   of the Auction Price that is
payable in cash on such date;

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-42- 

(v) if the Sales Option was elected pursuant to Section 15.2(b) with respect to all Licensed
Products, all rights held by Genentech hereunder with respect to the Licensed Products in the
Co-Promotion Territory shall terminate and IDEC shall pay Genentech   **   of the price   **   that is
payable in cash on such date;

(vi) the purchasing Party s rights under the selling Party s Patents and Know-how shall become
exclusive (with right of sublicense) and non-revocable with respect to all Licensed Products in the
Field and in the Co-Promotion Territory (and to the extent not already included on such date, such
rights shall include the right to manufacture and have manufactured under the selling Party s
Patents and Know-How), and the selling Party s license under the purchasing Party s Patents and
Know-how with respect to all Licensed Products in the Field and in the Co-Promotion Territory shall
terminate;

(vii) the selling Party shall (x) extend to the purchasing Party the opportunity to acquire a
non-exclusive license under any Third Party rights Controlled by the selling Party as of such date,
such terms, to the extent reasonably practicable, to be on the same financial terms as the selling
Party has with respect to such Third Party rights; and (y) to the extent the selling Party is
licensed under any Third Party rights not Controlled by the selling Party on such date, use its
commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to assist the purchasing Party in obtaining a license
for such Third Party rights under the same financial terms, to the extent reasonably practicable,
as the selling Party has with respect to such Third Party rights, in each case, to the extent such
rights are necessary for the purchasing Party to develop, manufacture or commercialize the
Franchise Products purchased by the purchasing Party as of such date.

(viii) the selling Party shall use commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to transfer to
the purchasing Party any technology, materials, data and regulatory submissions, existing and
utilized in the development, manufacture and commercialization of the Franchise Product as of such
date, so as to fully enable the purchasing Party to develop, manufacture and commercialize the
Franchise Product, with the costs of such transfer to be borne by the purchasing Party;

(ix) the selling Party shall make its personnel and other resources reasonably available to
the purchasing Party as necessary to effect an orderly transition of development, manufacturing and
commercialization responsibilities, with the cost of making such personnel and resources to be
borne by the purchasing Party; and

(x) the remaining   **   of the Auction Price that is payable in cash shall be paid upon the
later to occur of (A) thirty (30) days of the date thereafter on which the purchasing Party
manufactures and sells any Licensed Product in the Co-Promotion Territory or (B) the date on which
such technology transfer (including data and regulatory submissions) is substantially complete.

As used in this Section 15.2(c),  Patents  means IDEC Patent with respect to IDEC, and Genentech
Patents and Genentech NP Patents with respect to Genentech; and  Know-how  means IDEC Know-how with
respect to IDEC, and Genentech Know-how with respect to Genentech.

(d)  In the event of a buy-out of a Franchise Product pursuant to this Sections 15.2:

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-43- 

(i) the Party selling its rights to the Franchise Product shall continue to supply the amounts
of such Franchise Product it was obligated to supply at the time of such buy-out for a   **   to
allow the purchasing Party to obtain an alternate source of supply, if necessary;

(ii) the Party purchasing the rights to the Franchise Product going forward shall also receive
from the selling Party an exclusive license to use any and all jointly-owned trademarks pursuant to
Section 10.1; and

(iii) the Party purchasing the rights to a Franchise Product shall, to the extent Third Party
rights are passed by the selling Party to the purchasing Party, pay any and all Third Party
royalties.

15.3 Accrued Rights, Surviving Obligations . Termination, relinquishment or expiration of the
Agreement for any reason shall be without prejudice to any rights which shall have accrued to the
benefit of either Party prior to such termination (including paid up irrevocable licenses),
relinquishment or expiration, including damages arising from any breach hereunder. Such
termination, relinquishment or expiration shall not relieve either Party from obligations under
Articles 11, 12, 16 and 18 herein, and any other obligations which are expressly indicated to
survive termination or expiration of the Agreement.

ARTICLE 16. 
INDEMNIFICATION 

16.1 Indemnification in the Licensed Territory .

(a) Genentech hereby agrees to save, defend and hold IDEC and its agents and employees
harmless from and against any and all suits, claims, actions, demands, liabilities, expenses and/or
loss, including reasonable legal expense and attorneys  fees ( Losses ) resulting directly from the
manufacture, use, handling, storage, sale or other disposition of chemical agents or Franchise
Products sold or used in the Licensed Territory by Genentech, its Affiliates, agents or
sublicensees except to the extent such Losses result from the negligence of IDEC.

(b) In the event that IDEC is seeking indemnification under Section 16.1(a), it shall inform
Genentech of a claim as soon as reasonably practicable after it receives notice of the claim, shall
permit Genentech to assume direction and control of the defense of the claim (including the right
to settle the claim solely for monetary consideration), and shall cooperate as requested (at the
expense of Genentech) in the defense of the claim.

(c) IDEC hereby agrees to save, defend and hold Genentech and its agents and employees
harmless from and against any and all suits, claims, actions, demands, liabilities, expenses and/or
loss, including reasonable legal expense and attorneys  fees ( Losses ) resulting directly from the
manufacture by IDEC of Licensed Products sold or used in the Licensed Territory by Genentech, its
Affiliates, agents or sublicensees.

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-44- 

(d) In the event Genentech is seeking indemnification under Section 16.1(c), it shall inform
IDEC of a claim as soon as reasonably practicable after it receives notice of the claim, shall
permit IDEC to assume direction and control of the defense of the claim (including the right to
settle the claim solely for monetary consideration), and shall cooperate as requested (at the
expense of IDEC) in the defense of the claim.

16.2 Indemnification in the Co-Promotion Territory .

(a) Each Party hereby agrees to save, defend and hold the other Party and its agents and
employees harmless from and against any and all losses resulting directly or indirectly from the
manufacture, use, handling, storage, sale or other disposition of chemical agents or Franchise
Products and OCR sold or used in the Co-Promotion Territory by the indemnifying Party, its
Affiliates, agents or sublicensees, but only to the extent such losses result from the negligence
or willful misconduct of the indemnifying Party or its employees and agents and do not also result
from the negligence or willful misconduct of the Party seeking indemnification. Any other losses
resulting directly or indirectly from the manufacture, use, handling, storage, sale or other
disposition of (i) chemical agents or Franchise Products in the Co-Promotion Territory shall be
charged to the collaboration as an Other Operating Income/Expense at the time such claim is finally
determined, whether by judgment, award, decree or settlement; and (ii) OCR shall be borne by
Genentech, at the time such claim is finally determined, whether by judgment, award, decree or
settlement, provided that Genentech may deduct   **   of such losses from royalties owed to
IDEC pursuant to Section 7.7(a) as long as such deduction in any given payment period does not
result in IDEC receiving less than   **   of the royalty amount that would otherwise be owed to IDEC
pursuant to Section 7.7(a) for such period. Genentech may carry forward any losses not utilized as
a result of the cap on deductions to future periods, not to exceed   **   from the relevant claim s
final determination, until any such losses not utilized are fully deducted.

(b) In the event that either Party receives notice of a claim with respect to a Franchise
Product in the Co-Promotion Territory, such Party shall inform the other Party as soon as
reasonably practicable. The Parties shall confer how to respond to the claim and how to handle the
claim in an efficient manner.

ARTICLE 17. 
DISPUTE RESOLUTION 

17.1 Disputes . The Parties recognize that disputes as to certain matters may from time to
time arise during the term of this Agreement which relate to either Party s rights and/or
obligations hereunder. It is the objective of the Parties to establish procedures to facilitate
the resolution of disputes arising under this Agreement in an expedient manner by mutual
cooperation and without resort to litigation. To accomplish this objective, the Parties agree to
follow the procedures set forth in this Article 17, if and when a dispute arises under this
Agreement. Unless otherwise specifically recited in this Agreement, disputes among members of each
Operating Committee will be resolved as recited in this Article 17. Any disputes among members of
Operating Committees formed hereunder relating to the collaboration, and which are within the

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-45- 

scope
of such Operating Committee s responsibilities, shall be first referred to the Management Committee
by either Party at any time after such dispute has arisen and such Party believes that there has
been sufficient discussion of the matter at the Operating Committee level. If the Management
Committee is unable to resolve such a dispute within thirty (30) days of being requested by a Party
to resolve an Operating Committee dispute, any Party may, by written notice to the other, have such
dispute referred to their respective chief executive officers, for attempted resolution by good
faith negotiations within fourteen (14) days after such notice is received. In the event the
designated executive officers are not able to resolve such dispute, such dispute shall be resolved
as follows:

(a)   **  , if such dispute relates to issues of commercialization of Franchise Products that
are within the scope of the JCC s responsibilities (including post-marketing and investigator
sponsored trails), Genentech shall have final decision making authority with respect to such
dispute; provided however, that Genentech may not make a final decision which decision would: (i)
establish or amend an Annual Commercial Operating Budget; (ii) result in the Annual Commercial
Operating Budget approved with a commercialization plan being exceeded   **   (and to the extent such
budget is not exceeded   **  , such activities shall not be deemed an amendment to the budget for
purposes of 17.1(a)(i) above); (iii) assign tasks
to IDEC that were not otherwise approved by unanimous consent of the JCC; (iv) restrict a
Party s rights under Section 5.2(c), or with respect to the first sentence of Section 5.2(a)
restrict a Party s rights to deploy a co-promotion sales force in the Co-Promotion Territory as
specified in Section 5.2(a)(except as modified by Section 5.2(b)), in each case, unless the JCC
unanimously agrees otherwise, (v) assign an initial pricing for a Franchise Product, unless such
initial pricing is within   **   of the current price for C2B8; (vi) materially amend a
commercialization plan without the unanimous approval of the JCC (where  materially amend  means to
materially modify the strategic direction agreed upon by the Parties under such commercialization
plan ); or (vii) result in the cessation of development and/or commercialization of a Franchise
Product in the Co-Promotion Territory without the consent of IDEC (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld); and

(b) with respect to all other disputes, either Party may at anytime after the 14-day period
invoke the provisions of Section 17.2 hereinafter.

For clarity, any dispute, controversy or claim relating to OCR, as it is not subject to the
oversight, involvement or control of any Operating Committee or the Management Committee, shall not
be subject Section 17.1, but shall (except as to any issue relating to intellectual property owned
in whole or in part by IDEC or Genentech) be resolved by binding arbitration in accordance with
Section 17.2.

17.2 Arbitration . The parties agree that any dispute, controversy or claim (except as to any
issue relating to intellectual property owned in whole or in part by IDEC or Genentech) arising out
of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach, termination, or invalidity thereof, shall be
resolved through negotiation and/or binding arbitration. If a dispute arises between the parties,
and if said dispute cannot be resolved pursuant to Section 17.1, the Parties agree that any
unresolved controversy or claim between the parties shall be resolved by binding arbitration in
accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association, except as
modified herein. The Company and Buyer shall each select one arbitrator and the two arbitrators

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-46- 

so
selected shall choose a third arbitrator to resolve the dispute. The arbitration decision shall be
rendered in a writing stating the basis on which the decision was made within six months of
conclusion of arbitration and shall be binding and not be appealable to any court in any
jurisdiction. The prevailing Party may enter such decision in any court having competent
jurisdiction. The arbitration proceeding shall be conducted at the location of the Party not
originally requesting the resolution of the dispute. The Parties agree that they shall share
equally the cost of the arbitration filing and hearing fees, and the cost of the arbitrator. Each
Party must bear its own attorney s fees and associated costs and expenses.

17.3 Jurisdiction . For the purposes of this Article 17, the Parties agree to accept the
jurisdiction of the federal courts located in the Northern District of California for the purposes
of enforcing awards entered pursuant to this Article and for enforcing the agreements reflected in
this Article.

17.4 Determination of Patents and Other Intellectual Property . Any dispute relating to the
determination of validity of a Party s Patents or other issues relating solely to a Party s
intellectual property shall be submitted exclusively to the federal court located in the location
of the defendant, and the Parties hereby consent to the jurisdiction and venue of such court.

ARTICLE 18. 
MISCELLANEOUS 

18.1 Assignment .

(a) With respect to: (i) Licensed Products, either Party may assign any of its rights under
this Agreement in any country to any Affiliates and, with the prior written consent of the other
Party, may delegate its obligations under this Agreement in any country to any Affiliates; and (ii)
New Products, IDEC may, with the prior written consent of Genentech, assign and/or delegate any of
its rights under this Agreement in any country to any Affiliates;  provided, however,  that such
assignment shall not relieve the assigning Party of its responsibilities for performance of its
obligations under this Agreement. Genentech may assign and/or delegate its rights with respect to
any New Product or OCR in any country to any Affiliates.

(b) Either Party may assign all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement in
connection with a merger or similar reorganization or the sale of all or substantially all of its
assets, or otherwise with the prior written consent of the other Party; provided, however, that
IDEC may not so assign its rights and obligations if it is in breach of the provisions of Section
7.7. This Agreement shall survive any such merger or reorganization of either Party with or into,
or such sale of assets to, another party and no consent (except as otherwise set forth above) for
such merger, reorganization or sale shall be required hereunder.

(c) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and
permitted assigns of the Parties. Any assignment not in accordance with this Agreement shall be
void.

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-47- 

18.2 Non-Solicitation . The Parties recognize that each Party has a substantial interest in
preserving and maintaining confidential its Confidential Information hereunder. Each Party
recognizes that certain of the other Party s employees, including those engaged in development,
marketing and sale of any Franchise Product, may have access to such Confidential Information of
the other Party. The Parties therefore agree not to solicit or otherwise induce or attempt to
induce for purposes of employment, any employees from the other Party involved in the development,
marketing or sales of any Franchise Product during the period in which any Party is developing or
commercializing a Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion Territory hereunder and for a period of two
years thereafter.

18.3 Consents Not Unreasonably Withheld . Whenever provision is made in this Agreement for
either Party to secure the consent or approval of the other, that consent or approval shall not
unreasonably be withheld, and whenever in this Agreement provision is made for one Party to object
to or disapprove a matter, such objection or disapproval shall not unreasonably be exercised.

18.4 Retained Rights . Nothing in this Agreement shall limit in any respect the right of
either Party to conduct research and development with respect to and market products outside the
Field using such Party s technology.

18.5 Force Majeure . Neither Party shall lose any rights hereunder or be liable to the other
Party for damages or losses on account of failure of performance by the defaulting Party if the
failure is occasioned by government action, war, earthquake, fire, explosion, flood, strike,
 lockout, embargo, mycoplasmal contamination, act of God, or any other cause beyond the control of
the defaulting Party, provided that the Party claiming force majeure has exerted all reasonable
efforts to avoid or remedy such force majeure;  provided however,  that in no event shall a Party be
required to settle any labor dispute or disturbance.

18.6 Further Actions . Each Party agrees to execute, acknowledge and deliver such further
instruments, and to do all such other acts, as may be necessary or appropriate in order to carry
out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.

18.7 No Right to Use Names . Except as otherwise provided herein, no right, express or
implied, is granted by the Agreement to use in any manner the name  IDEC,   Genentech  or any other
trade name or trademark of the other Party or its Affiliates in connection with the performance of
the Agreement.

18.8 Notices . All notices hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given if
delivered personally or by facsimile transmission (receipt verified), telexed, mailed by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested), postage prepaid, or sent by express courier service,
to the Parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a Party as shall be
specified by like notice; provided, that notices of a change of address shall be effective only
upon receipt thereof).

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-48- 

18.9 Waiver.  Except as specifically provided for herein, the waiver from time to time by
either of the Parties of any of their rights or their failure to exercise any remedy shall not
operate or be construed as a continuing waiver of same or of any other of such Party s rights or
remedies provided in this Agreement.

18.10 Severability . If any term, covenant or condition of this Agreement or the application
thereof to any Party or circumstance shall, to any extent, be held to be invalid or unenforceable,
then (i) the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such term, covenant or condition to
Parties or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall
not be affected thereby and each term, covenant or condition of this Agreement shall be valid and
be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law; and (ii) the Parties hereto covenant and agree
to renegotiate any such term, covenant or application thereof in good faith in order to provide a
reasonably acceptable alternative to the term, covenant or condition of this Agreement or the
application thereof that is invalid or unenforceable, it being the intent of the Parties that the
basic purposes of this Agreement are to be effectuated.

18.11 Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with,
the laws of the State of California without giving effect to principles of conflict of laws.

18.12 Ambiguities . Ambiguities, if any, in this Agreement shall not be construed against any
Party, irrespective of which Party may be deemed to have authorized the ambiguous provision.

18.13 Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same
instrument.

18.14 Entire Agreement . This Agreement, including all Exhibits and the Appendix attached
hereto which are hereby incorporated herein by reference, sets forth all the covenants, promises,
agreements, warranties, representations, conditions and understandings between the

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-49- 

Parties hereto
and supersedes and terminates the 2003 Restated Agreement between the Parties; provided, Exhibits B
and D to the Original Agreement and the First Amendment and the Second Amendment shall as of the
Second Restated Effective Date be incorporated herein by reference and deemed Exhibits B and D, the
First Amendment and the Second Amendment, respectively to this Agreement; provided further, with
respect to any conflict between this Agreement and the 2003 Restated Agreement (including Exhibits
B and D, the First Amendment and the Second Amendment thereto), as to any acts or omissions by the
parties that occurred after the Original Effective Date but prior to the Restated Effective Date,
the terms of the Original Agreement shall prevail. There are no covenants, promises, agreements,
warranties, representations, conditions or understandings, either oral or written, between the
Parties other than as set forth herein and therein; provided, to the extent the Parties entered
into any written agreements (other than the 2003 Restated Agreement, Original Agreement, the First
Amendment or the Second Amendment) with respect to Third Party intellectual property rights
regarding the development, manufacture or commercialization of Licensed Products prior to the
Second Restated Effective Date, and to the extent such agreements are in full force and effect
immediately prior to the Second Restated Effective Date, such agreements (including without
limitation, that certain Letter Agreement between the Parties of May 21, 1996 relating to the
Original Agreement) shall continue in full force and effect under their respective terms and not be
deemed to be superseded by this Agreement. No subsequent alteration, amendment, change or addition
to this Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties hereto unless reduced to writing and signed by
the respective authorized officers of the Parties.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the Parties have executed this Agreement in duplicate originals by their
proper officers as of the date and year first above written.

BIOGEN IDEC INC.  
       
      GENENTECH, INC.  

By:

/s/ George Scangos

By:

/s/ Steve Krognes

Title:

Chief Executive Officer

Title:

Chief Financial Officer 

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-50- 

Appendix 1 

Schedule of Master Definitions 

**  
     = 
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request. An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-51- 

APPENDIX 1 

TO THE 

SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED COLLABORATION AGREEMENT 

BETWEEN BIOGEN IDEC INC AND GENENTECH, INC. 

SCHEDULE OF MASTER DEFINITIONS 

1.   Administration Costs   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement.

2.   Affiliate   means an entity that, directly or indirectly, through one or more
intermediaries, is controlled by IDEC or Genentech. As used herein, the term  control  will mean
the direct or indirect ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the stock having the right to
vote for directors thereof or the ability to otherwise control the management of the corporation or
other business entity. For the avoidance of doubt, as of the Restated Effective Date, F. Hoffman-La
Roche AG shall not be considered an Affiliate of Genentech.

3.   Allocable Overhead   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement.

4.   Ancillary Agreements   shall mean the License Agreements, Preferred Stock Purchase
Agreement, Option Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement and Standstill Agreement.

5.   Annual Commercial Operating Budget   means an annual top line budget with respect to
commercialization activities in any one fiscal year in respect of Franchise Products in the form
attached hereto as Section A.1(a) of Exhibit A.

6.   Approvable Process Event   means a determination by the JDC that the formulation of C2B8
and the process for C2B8 recovery are commercially viable as more fully described in Appendix I to
the Development Plan.

7.   Asia   means Japan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Cambodia, Indonesia, People s Republic of China,
Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Republic of China (Taiwan) and Thailand and the territories and possessions of each.

8.   Business Day   means a day on which banking institutions are open for business in
California.

9.   C2B8   means that certain monoclonal antibody to B cells more particularly described on
Exhibit B to the Collaboration Agreement.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-52- 

10.   Certificate of Determination of Preferred Stock   means the Certificate of Determination
of Series A-1 Preferred Stock, Series A-2 Preferred Stock, Series A-3 Preferred Stock, Series A-4
Preferred Stock, Series A-5 Preferred Stock, Series A-6 Preferred Stock and Series A-7 Preferred
Stock, to be filed with the Secretary of State of the State of California.

11.   Collaboration Agreement   shall mean the Collaboration Agreement dated the Restated
Effective Date between IDEC and Genentech.

12.   Combination Product Adjustment   means the following: in the event a Franchise Product or
OCR is sold in the form of a combination product containing one or more active ingredients in
addition to a Franchise Product or OCR, respectively, Royalty-Bearing Sales or Net Sales for such
combination product will be adjusted by multiplying actual Royalty-Bearing Sales, or Net Sales as
applicable, of such combination product by the fraction A/(A   B) where A is the invoice price of
the Franchise Product or OCR, as applicable, if sold separately, and B is the invoice price of any
other active component or components in the combination, if sold separately. If, on a
country-by-country basis, the other active component or components in the combination are not sold
separately in said country, Royalty-Bearing Sales or Net Sales shall be calculated by multiplying
actual Royalty-Bearing Sales or Net Sales of such combination product by the fraction A/C where A
is the invoice price of the Franchise Product or OCR, as applicable, if sold separately, and C is
the invoice price of the combination product. If, on a country-by-country basis, neither the
Franchise Product or OCR, as applicable, nor the other active component or components of the
combination product is sold separately in said country, Royalty-Bearing Sales or Net Sales shall be
determined by the Parties in good faith.

13.   Control   or   Controlled   means possession of the ability to grant a license or sublicense
as provided for herein without violating the terms of any agreement or other arrangement with any
Third Party.

14.   Co-Promote   means to promote jointly Franchise Products through Genentech, IDEC and their
respective sales forces under a single trademark in a given country in the Co-Promotion Territory.

15.   Co-Promotion Profits   shall have the same meaning as Operating Profits or Losses.

16.   Co-Promotion Territory   means, with regard to Licensed Products, the United States and
Canada, and with regard to OCR and New Products, the United States only.

17.   Cost of Goods Sold   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement.

18.   Cost of Sales   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement.

19.   Delay Option   means the option exercisable by IDEC upon written notice to Genentech at
least thirty (30) days prior to the First Anniversary Date that IDEC elects to delay   **   of
Genentech s investment on the First Anniversary Date such that either (i) IDEC shall receive in

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-53- 

lieu of such delayed portion of the investment, a   **   payment upon the occurrence of the
Patent Milestone Event or instead issue shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or if the Patent
Milestone Event does not occur prior to the Third Anniversary Date, then (ii) IDEC shall receive
the delayed investment in accordance with Section 2(d) of the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement;
provided that this Delay Option will not be exercisable by IDEC if the Approvable Process Event
does not occur on or prior to the First Anniversary Date.

20.   Development Costs   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement.

21.   Development Plan   means the comprehensive plan for the development of a Franchise
Product, designed to generate the preclinical, process development, manufacturing scale-up,
clinical and regulatory information required to obtain Regulatory Approval in the Co-Promotion
Territory, and which may be modified from time to time by the JDC. Development shall refer to all
activities related to preclinical testing, toxicology, formulation, process development,
manufacturing scale-up, quality assurance/quality control, clinical studies and regulatory affairs
for a Franchise Product in connection with obtaining Regulatory Approvals of such Franchise
Product.

22.   Distribution Costs   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement.

23.   Drug Approval Application   means an application for Regulatory Approval required for
commercial sale or use of a Franchise Product as a drug in the Field in a regulatory jurisdiction.

24.    Excluded Patent   means the rights under any Patent within the following, as defined in
 Exhibit G : the Cabilly Patents and the Itakura/Riggs Patents.

25.   First Anniversary Date   means the date which is twelve (12) calendar months following the
Original Effective Date.

26.   First New Product FDA Approval   means the date upon which the first approval is received
from the United States Food and Drug Administration with respect to the first New Product
(immediately following which such New Product may be manufactured and commercially sold in the
United States).

27.   First GA101 FDA Approval   means the date upon which the first approval is received from
the United States Food and Drug Administration with respect to GA101 (immediately following which
GA101 may be commercially sold in the United States).

28.   First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval   means the date upon which the first approval is
received from the United States Food and Drug Administration with respect to GA101 in an indication
other than chronic lymphocytic leukemia (immediately following which GA101 may be commercially sold
in the United States).

27.   FDA Approval Date   means the date on which the United States Food and Drug Administration
grants Regulatory Approval of C2B8 for manufacture and sale in the United States.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-54- 

29.   FDA Approval Event   means the FDA Approval Date occurs on or before the Fifty-Four Month
Anniversary Date.

30.   FDA Review Event   means the date on which the relevant United States Food and Drug
Administration public advisory committee meets to determine whether to recommend approval of the
manufacture and sale in the United States of C2B8.

31.   Field   means the use of Franchise Product in humans.

32.   Fifty-Four Month Anniversary Date   means that date which is fifty-four (54) calendar
months following the Original Effective Date.

33.   Franchise Products   means Licensed Products and New Products.

34.   GA101   means  Licensed Products  as defined in the GA101 License and Collaboration
Agreement made and entered on September 23, 2008 by and between F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and
GlycArt Biotechnology AG and Genentech.

35.   GA101 CLL Sales Trigger   means the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
first date cumulative Gross Sales of GA101 (calculated only with respect to GA101 in the United
States) within any consecutive 12 month period reaches $500,000,000.

36.   G2H7   means   **  .

37.   Genentech   means Genentech, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its Affiliates.

38.   Genentech Know-how   means Information which (i) Genentech discloses to IDEC under the
Collaboration Agreement and (ii) is within the Control of Genentech.

39.   Genentech NP Patent   means the rights under any Patent, other than a Genentech Patent or
Excluded Patent, which covers a method, apparatus, material, manufacture, use, treatment, process,
compound, composition, or product-by-process necessary to develop, make, use or sell a New Product
in the Field in the Co-Promotion Territory, which Patent is Controlled by Genentech, including its
interest in any Patents owned jointly by the Parties as provided hereunder.

40.   Genentech OCR Patent   means the rights under any Patent, filed after the Second Restated
Effective Date, other than a Genentech Patent, Genentech NP Patent or Excluded Patent, which covers
a method, apparatus, material, manufacture, use, treatment, process, compound, composition, or
product-by-process necessary to develop, make, use or sell OCR in the Field, which Patent is
Controlled by Genentech, including its interest in any Patents owned jointly by the Parties as
provided hereunder.

41.   Genentech Patent   means the rights under any Patent, other than an Excluded Patent, which
covers a method, apparatus, material, manufacture, use, treatment, process, compound, composition,
or product-by-process necessary to develop, make, use or sell a Licensed Product in the Field,
which Patent is Controlled by Genentech, including its interest in any Patents owned jointly by the
Parties as provided hereunder.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-55- 

42.   Gross Sales   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement.

43.   IDEC   means IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its Affiliates.

44.   IDEC Know-how   means Information which (i) IDEC discloses to Genentech under the
Collaboration Agreement and (ii) is within the Control of IDEC.

45.   IDEC Patent   means the rights under a Patent which covers a method, apparatus, material,
manufacture, use, treatment, process, compound, composition or product-by-process (i) useful in the
development, manufacture, use or sale of Licensed Products, or (ii) necessary to develop, make, use
or sell a New Product or OCR, in each case which Patent is Controlled by IDEC, including its
interest in any Patents owned jointly by the Parties as provided hereunder.

46.   ln2B8   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2. of the Collaboration Agreement.

47.   Information   means techniques and data relating to the Franchise Products and/or OCR,
including, but not limited to, biological materials, inventions, practices, methods, knowledge,
know-how, skill, experience, test data (including pharmacological, toxicological and clinical test
data), analytical and quality control data, marketing, pricing, distribution, cost, sales,
manufacturing, patent data or descriptions.

48.   Joint Commercialization Committee   or   JCC   means that committee established
pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Collaboration Agreement.

49.   Joint Development Committee   or   JDC   means that committee established pursuant to
Section 3.2 of the Collaboration Agreement.

50.   Joint Finance Committee   or   JFC   means that committee established pursuant to Section
3.4 of the Collaboration Agreement.

51.   Joint Know-how   means Information developed by or on behalf of a Party hereunder and
which is co-funded by the Parties, including without limitation being charged against Operating
Profits (or Losses).

52.   Licensed Product(s)   means any compound or composition of matter   **   (including C2B8,
but excluding Y2B8 and In2B8 unless the option set forth in Section 2.3 of the Collaboration
Agreement is exercised) (a) developed by IDEC or (b) the intellectual property rights to which are
owned or Controlled, in whole or in part, by IDEC, in either (a) or (b) as of the Original
Effective Date or during the term of the Collaboration Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Licensed Products shall not be considered OCR, New Products or Third Party Anti-CD20 Products.

53.   Licensed Territory   means worldwide (including Asia, pursuant to the First Amendment (as
defined in the Collaboration Agreement)), excluding the Co-Promotion Territory.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-56- 

54.   Major European Country   means the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, France or Spain.

55.   Management Committee   means that committee established pursuant to Section 3.1 of the
Collaboration Agreement.

56.   Marketing Costs   shall have the meaning set forth m Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement

57.   ML/MS Agreement   means the Preferred and Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated March 16,
1995 by and between ML/MS Associates, L.P. and IDEC, whereby IDEC reacquired the rights to certain
technologies for the treatment of B-cell lymphomas funded and developed by ML/MS Partners pursuant
to a Development Agreement and related agreements, dated as of February 17, 1988 and October 27,
1988.

58.   ML/MS Partners   shall mean ML Technology Ventures, L.P. and Morgan Stanley Ventures,
L.P., and any assignee or successor to ML/MS Partners.

59.   National Exchange   shall mean the Nasdaq National Market or any other national exchange
on which the Common Stock of IDEC is listed.

60.   Net Sales   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement.

61.   New Product   means (i) G2H7 (from and after the date of payment pursuant to Section
7.1(b)(i) of the Collaboration Agreement) and (ii) any Potential New Product for which IDEC has
exercised an opt-in pursuant to Section 2.5 of the Collaboration Agreement (from and after the date
of payment pursuant to Section 7.1(b)(ii), (iii) or (iv), as applicable, of the Collaboration
Agreement). At the time a Potential New Product becomes a New Product, such New Product shall be
defined to include   **   was (were) the subject of such Potential New Product, as well as (x) any
modifications to   **   which result from   **   are not required to obtain Regulatory Approval, and
(y) modifications or derivatives to   **   which result from activities specified in the Development
Plan   **  .

62.   OCR   means   **  .

63.   OCR Trademarks   means trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, names, slogans and
domain names used or to be used in connection with the marketing and commercialization of OCR (and
all translations, adaptations, derivations, and combinations thereof), together will all goodwill
associated therewith, and all applications, registrations, and renewals in connection therewith.

64.   Operating Committee   means a committee established by the Management Committee, including
but not limited to, the Joint Development Committee, Joint Commercialization Committee and the
Joint Finance Committee.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-57- 

65.   Operating Profits or Losses   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A of the
Collaboration Agreement.

66.   Option Agreement   means the Option Agreement to be dated as of the Original Effective
Date between Genentech and IDEC.

67.   Original Agreement   shall mean that certain collaboration agreement by and between the
Parties dated March 16, 1995.

68.   Original Effective Date   means March 16, 1995.

69.   Party   means IDEC or Genentech, as applicable.

70.   Parties   means IDEC and Genentech.

71.   Patent(s)   means (i) valid and enforceable letters patent, including any extension,
registration, confirmation, reissue, re-examination or renewal thereof and (ii) pending
applications for letters patent, including any continuation, division or continuation-in-part.

72.   Patent Costs   means the fees and expenses paid to outside legal counsel and experts, and
filing and maintenance expenses, (i) incurred after the Original Effective Date in connection with
the establishment and maintenance of rights under Patents covering any Licensed Product, and (ii)
incurred after the Restated Effective Date in connection with the establishment and maintenance of
rights under Patents covering OCR or any New Product, including, in each case, costs of patent
interference, reexamination, reissue, opposition and revocation proceedings.

73.   Patent Milestone Event   means the notice of grant in the European Patent Office or
issuance in a Major European Country of the first valid and enforceable letters patent covering
C2B8.

74.   Phase II Clinical Trial   means such studies in humans of the safety, dose ranging and
efficacy of a Franchise Product which have generated sufficient data to commence a Phase III
Clinical Trial.

75.   Phase III Clinical Trial   means a study in humans of the efficacy and safety of a
Franchise Product which is prospectively designed to demonstrate statistically whether the
Franchise Product is effective for use in a particular indication in a manner sufficient to obtain
Regulatory Approval to market that Franchise Product and which the Joint Development Committee
designates as a Phase III Clinical Trial.

76.   Phase III Milestone Event   means completion of the Pivotal Phase III Clinical Trial and
presentation of the results of the entire Pivotal Phase III Clinical Trial in a peer-reviewed
journal or public forum.

77.   Pivotal Phase III Clinical Trial   means IDEC Protocol #102-05, as amended, and as further
amended by the agreement of the JDC or as otherwise agreed by the JDC.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-58- 

78.   Potential New Product   means any protein(s) or peptide(s) (other than G2H7 and OCR)   **  ,
and such protein(s) or peptide(s):

(a) was (were) acquired by   **   from a Third Party   **   (such Potential New Product a     ** 
Potential New Product   or

(b) was (were) acquired by   **   from a Third Party   **   (such Potential New Product a    ** 
Potential New Product  ) (collectively,   **   Potential New Products and   **   Potential New Products
may be referred to herein as    **  Potential New Products   or

(c) was (were) developed by Genentech (including any protein(s) or peptide(s) acquired by   **  
(such Potential New Product a    **  Potential New Product  )).

As used in this Collaboration Agreement,  protein  or  peptide  means any protein or peptide having
a   **  ; and  acquired  means, in addition to the direct acquisition of rights to a product, the
indirect acquisition of rights to a product through the acquisition of   **  . Notwithstanding the
foregoing,   **  , and Potential New Products and New Products shall not be considered Third Party
Anti-CD20 Products.

79.   Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement   means the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement dated
the Original Effective Date between IDEC and Genentech.

80.   Proceed with Formulation Event   means the affirmative decision by the JDC to proceed with
the current formulation (including modified formulations, if any, not requiring a halt in current
clinical trials) of C2B8 more fully described in Appendix I to the Development Plan.

81.   Product License Application Filing Event   shall mean the date on which the first product
license application is filed with the United States Food and Drug Administration for approval of
the manufacture and sale of C2B8 in the United States.

82.   Regulatory Approval   means any approvals (including pricing and reimbursement approvals),
licenses, registrations or authorizations of any federal, state or local regulatory agency,
department, bureau or other governmental entity, necessary for the manufacture and sale of a
Franchise Product in a regulatory jurisdiction.

83.   Registration Rights Agreement   means the 1995 Registration Rights Agreement dated as of
the Original Effective Date between Genentech, ML/MS Associates, L.P. and IDEC.

84.   Royalty-Bearing Sales   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Licensed Territory or
OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory and Licensed Territory, the gross amount invoiced by Genentech or
its permitted sublicensees for sales to an unrelated Third Party of a Franchise Product in the
Licensed Territory or OCR in the Co-Promotion Territory or Licensed Territory (as applicable), less
(i) trade, cash and quantity discounts or rebates, (ii) credits or allowances given or made for
rejection or return of, and for uncollectible amounts on, previously sold products or for
retroactive price reductions (including rebates similar to Medicare), (iii) taxes, duties or other
governmental charges levied on or measured by the billing amount, as adjusted for rebates and
refunds, (iv) charges for freight and insurance directly related to the distribution of Franchise

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-59- 

Products and OCR, as applicable (to the extent not paid by the Third Party customer), and (v)
credits or allowances given or made for wastage replacement, indigent patient and similar programs
(but only to the extent such amounts were included in the gross amount invoiced). The amount
obtained by deducting (i) through (v) from the gross amount invoiced shall then be adjusted by the
Combination Product Adjustment, if applicable. For the avoidance of doubt, Royalty-Bearing Sales
will, following the Restated Effective Date, be determined in a manner consistent with the practice
immediately prior to the Restated Effective Date, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the
Parties.

85.   Sales Costs   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the Collaboration
Agreement.

86.   Sales Returns and Allowances   shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to the
Collaboration Agreement.

87.   Sales Representative   means an employee of either Party or its Affiliates (i) who is
responsible for contacting customers and others who can buy or influence the buying decision on the
applicable Franchise Product in the applicable country in the Co-Promotion Territory, and (ii)
whose success at such activities is a significant factor in the ongoing employment of the
individual, and shall exclude an employee of either Party or an Affiliate engaged in telemarketing,
professional education, and similar indirect activities in support of direct selling.

88.   Stability Benchmark Date   means the date on which the accelerated stability study has
been completed and data has been reviewed by the JDC as more fully described on Appendix I to the
Development Plan.

89.   Standstill Agreement   means the Standstill Agreement to be dated as of the Original
Effective Date between Genentech and IDEC.

90.   Third Anniversary Date   means that date which is thirty-six months following the Original
Effective Date.

91.   Third Party   means any entity other than IDEC or Genentech.

92.   Third Party Anti-CD20 Products   means any protein or peptide   **   that is controlled
(either before or after Genentech decides to seek a license to the same) by any Third Party. As
used in the previous sentence,  controlled  means that such Third Party had the ability to grant a
license or sublicense to develop and commercialize such product without violating the terms of any
agreement or other arrangement it had with any other Third Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Third Party Anti-CD20 Products shall not be considered Potential New Products or New Products.

93.   Third Party Royalties   means royalties payable by either Party to a Third Party in
connection with the manufacture, use or sale of Franchise Products.

94.   Y2B8   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2 of the Collaboration Agreement.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-60- 

Exhibit A 

Financial Planning, Accounting and Reporting 

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-61- 

EXHIBIT A 

FINANCIAL PLANNING, ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING 
FOR THE 
SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED COLLABORATION AGREEMENT 

This Exhibit A to the Second Amended and Restated Collaboration Agreement (the  Collaboration
Agreement ) dated as of October 18, 2010, between Biogen Idec Inc. ( IDEC ) and Genentech, Inc.
( Genentech ) addresses the financial planning, accounting policies and procedures to be followed
in determining Operating Profits or Losses and related sharing of revenue and expenses in the
Co-Promotion Territory. Terms not defined in this Exhibit shall have the meanings set forth in the
Schedule of Master Definitions which is attached as Appendix 1 to the Collaboration Agreement, or
to the extent not in the Schedule of Master Definitions, in the Collaboration Agreement.

This Exhibit sets forth the principles for reporting actual results and budgeted plans of the
combined operations in the Co-Promotion Territory, the frequency of reporting, the use of a single
functional currency for reporting, and the methods of determining payments to the Parties and
auditing of accounts.

For purposes of this Exhibit only, the consolidated accounting of operations for the
collaboration in the Co-Promotion Territory shall be referred to as GenIDEC. GenIDEC is not a legal
entity and has been defined for identification purposes only.

A.1. Principles of Reporting 

The results of operations of GenIDEC will be presented in the following format (as to
all Franchise Products and also on a product-by-product basis), with the categories as
defined in Section A.4 below:

A.  1(a)   Income Statement  

IDEC 

Genentech 

Total 

Gross Sales

less Sales Returns and Allowances

= Net Sales

less Cost of Sales

= Gross Profits

less Marketing Costs

less Sales Costs

less Development Costs chargeable to GenIDEC

less Other Operating Income/Expense

= Contribution

less Distribution Costs

less Administration Costs

= Operating Profit (Loss)

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-62- 

It is the intention of the Parties that the interpretation of these definitions will be
consistent with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.

A.1(b) Subcomponent Reporting 

For reporting purposes only, expenses will be identified for the budget, forecast, and
quarterly actuals reporting events within this Section A.1 by the following detail sub-components
within the aggregate Income Statement expense components specified
under  Section A.l(a): 

Cost of Sales   cost of goods sold (COGS), cost of sales royalties, freight   other

Marketing   marketing promotion, market research, marketing headcount

Sales   sales headcount, sales promotion   sales operations

Development   by indication label-enabling activities   trials, by indication post-marketing
activities   trials

The requirement defined within Section 4.5, 5.4 (b) and 17.1(a) not to exceed budget by   **  
without unanimous JDC or JCC approval, as applicable, shall not apply to these reporting detail
sub-components, but shall only apply to the aggregate expense components specified within the
Income Statement format specified within Section A.l(a).

A.2. Frequency of Reporting 

The fiscal year of GenIDEC will be a calendar year.

Reporting by each Party for GenIDEC revenues and expenses will be performed as follows (with
copies provided to the JFC and to the other Party):

Reporting Event 
       
     Frequency 
       
     Timing of Submission 

Actuals

Quarterly

Q1-Q3:

30 days 

Q4:

45 days 

Forecasts

Quarterly

Mid Quarter 

(rest of year   by month)

Budgets

Annually

October 31 

(one year   by month)

Long Range Plan

Annually

July 31 

(current year plus 5 years)

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-63- 

Genentech will be responsible for the preparation of consolidated reporting (actuals, budgets,
forecasts, and long range plans), calculation of the profit/loss sharing and determination of the
cash settlement. Genentech will provide the JFC (and IDEC) within five working days of the
submission date shown above, a statement showing the consolidated results (and forecasts) and
calculations of the profit/loss sharing and cash settlement required in a format agreed to by the
Parties.

Reports of actual results compared to budget (as to all Franchise Products and also on a product-
by-product basis) will be made to the Operating Committees on a quarterly basis. After approval by
the JFC as to amounts, the JFC will forward the report to the Management Committee for its
approval. Line item variances from budgets judged to be significant by the JFC will only be
included in calculation of Operating Profit and Loss when approved by the JCC and the Management
Committee.

On a monthly basis Genentech will supply IDEC with Gross Sales (as to all Franchise Products and
also on a product-by-product basis) in units, local currency and U.S. dollars by country of each
month s sales according to Genentech s sales reporting system, which shall be consistent with the
definitions in Section A.4.

The Joint Finance Committee will meet as appropriate to review and approve the following (as to all
Franchise Products and also on a product-by-product basis):

- 
       
     Actual Results 

- 
       
     Forecasts 

- 
       
     Budget 

- 
       
     Inventory Levels 

- 
       
     Sales Returns and Allowances 

- 
       
     Other financial matters, including each Party s methodologies for
charging costs and allocating Sales Representatives to GenIDEC for
actuals, forecasts, budgets and long range plans and the results of
applying such methodologies. 

A.3. Budget and Long Range Plan 

Responsibility for the Budget and Long Range Plan with regard to Licensed Products,   **  , will rest
with the JCC and the JDC, who will develop budgets for development and commercialization in
coordination with the Joint Finance Committee, subject to final approval by the Management
Committee.

Responsibility for the Budget and Long Range Plan with regard to New Products, including, without
limitation, G2H7, and with regard to all Franchise Products (including, without limitation, C2B8)
  **  , will rest with Genentech, who will develop budgets for development and commercialization in
coordination with the Joint Finance Committee, subject to final approval by the Management
Committee.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-64- 

Budgets will be prepared annually for the following full calendar year containing monthly
details/numbers.

Budgets will be supplemented with high level business plans and costs for clinical trials,
registration applications, and plans for product introduction, sales efforts and promotion as
approved by the Joint Development Committee and Joint Commercialization Committee. Budgets, once
ratified by the Management Committee, can only be changed with the approval of the Management
Committee (with the exception of the provisions outlined in Sections 4.5 and 5.4(b) of the
Collaboration Agreement).

A five-year Long Range Plan for GenIDEC will be established on a yearly basis under the direction
of the Management Committee and submitted to Genentech and IDEC by July 31st.

A.4. Definitions 

A.4.1  Administration Costs   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Co- Promotion
Territory, costs chargeable to GenIDEC equal to   **   of the sum of each Party s own Marketing Costs
and Sales Costs and Development Costs (each, only to the extent chargeable to GenIDEC), subject to
a cap for each Party, as to all Franchise Products, in each calendar year of   **   (subject to
annual increases per the PPI).

A.4.2  Allocable Overhead   means costs incurred by a Party or for its account which are
attributable to a Party s supervisory, services, occupancy costs, corporate bonus (to the extent
not charged directly to department), and its payroll, information systems, human relations or
purchasing functions and which are allocated to company departments based on space occupied or
headcount or other activity-based method. Allocable Overhead shall not include any costs
attributable to general corporate activities including, by way of example, executive management,
investor relations, business development, legal affairs and finance.

A.4.3.  Cost of Goods Sold   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Co- Promotion
Territory, the fully burdened cost of such Franchise Product in final therapeutic form as limited
by Section 8.2 or Section 8.6. The fully burdened cost of each Franchise Product will be determined
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as applied by the
Party performing or contracting for each stage of the manufacturing process and will include direct
labor, material, product testing costs and Allocable Overhead.

A.4.4.  Cost of Sales   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion Territory, Cost
of Goods Sold, Third Party Royalties (except to ML/MS Partners) (i.e., any allocable intellectual
property acquisition and licensing costs) and outbound freight on sales if borne by the seller.

A.4.5.  Development Costs   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Co- Promotion Territory,
costs, including Allocable Overhead, required to obtain the authorization and/or ability to
manufacture, formulate, fill, ship and/or sell such Franchise Product in the Field in commercial
quantities in the Co-Promotion Territory. Development Costs shall include but are not limited to
the

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-65- 

cost of studies on the toxicological, pharmacokinetic, metabolic or clinical aspects of such
Franchise Product conducted internally or by individual investigators, or consultants necessary for
the purpose of obtaining and/or maintaining approval of such Franchise Product in the Field by a
government organization in a country of the Co-Promotion Territory, and costs for preparing,
submitting, reviewing or developing data or information for the purpose of a submission to a
governmental authority to obtain and/or maintain approval of such Franchise Product in the Field in
a country of the Co-Promotion Territory as well as costs of process development scale-up and
recovery (including plant costs). In addition, Development Costs in the Co-Promotion Territory
shall include the cost of post-launch clinical studies in support of such Franchise Product in the
Field in the Co-Promotion Territory. Development Costs in the Co-Promotion Territory shall include
expenses for compensation, benefits and travel and other employee-related expenses, as well as data
management, statistical designs and studies, document preparation, and other expenses associated
with the clinical testing program. Development Costs that are to be paid solely by one but not both
of the Parties as set forth in Section 2.3 of the Collaboration Agreement shall not be included in
the determination of Operating Profits (Losses).

A.4.6.  Distribution Costs   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion Territory,
the costs, including Allocable Overhead, specifically identifiable to the distribution of such
Franchise Product including customer services, collection of data of sales to hospitals and other
end users (e.g. DDD sales data), order entry, billing, credit and collection and other activities
described in Section 5.3 of the Agreement. For the purpose of this Agreement, only Genentech will
charge GenIDEC for Distribution Costs an amount of   **   of Net Sales in a lump sum.

A.4.7.  Gross Sales   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion Territory, the
gross amount invoiced by either Party or their Affiliates or permitted sublicensees for sales of
such Franchise Product to Third Parties in the Co-Promotion Territory.

A.4.8.  Marketing Costs   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion Territory,
the costs, excluding Allocable Overhead, of marketing, promotion, advertising, professional
education, product related public relations, relationships with opinion leaders and professional
societies, market research, healthcare economics studies and other similar activities directly
related to such Franchise Product and approved by the Joint Commercialization Committee. Such costs
will include both internal costs (e.g., salaries, benefits, supplies and materials, etc.) as well
as outside services and expenses (e.g., consultants, agency fees, meeting costs, etc.). Marketing
Costs shall also include activities related to obtaining reimbursement from payers and costs of
sales and marketing data. Marketing Costs will specifically exclude the costs of activities which
promote (i) either Party s business as a whole without being product specific (such as corporate
image advertising), or (ii) non-Franchise Products.

A.4.9.  Net Sales   means Gross Sales less Sales Returns and Allowances.

A.4.10.  Operating Profit or Loss   means, as to all Franchise Products (or, where applicable,
on a product-by-product basis), GenIDEC s Net Sales less the following items: Cost of Sales,
Marketing Costs, Sales Costs, Development Costs, (to the extent chargeable to GenIDEC), Other
Operating Income/Expense, Distribution Costs and Administrative Costs, for a given period.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-66- 

A.4.11.  Other Operating Income/Expense   means other operating income or expense from or to
third parties which is not part of the primary business activity of GenIDEC, but is considered and
approved by the Joint Finance Committee as income or expense generated from GenIDEC operations, and
limited to the following:

- 
       
     Inventory Write-Offs 

- 
       
     Patent Costs (as defined and to the extent permitted in the Collaboration
Agreement) 

- 
       
     Certain losses as set forth in section 16.2 of the Collaboration Agreement
Product liability insurance to the extent the Parties obtain a joint policy 

- 
       
     Other (To be approved by JFC) 

A.4.12.  Sales Costs   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion Territory (to
the extent practicable and without being overly burdensome to provide, Sales Costs will be
identified on a product -by-product basis, otherwise such Sales Costs shall be attributed between
the products in a reasonable manner as determined by the JFC), costs, including Allocable Overhead,
approved by the JCC and the annual budget and specifically identifiable to the sales of such
Franchise Product to all markets in the Co-Promotion Territory including the managed care market.
Sales Costs shall include costs associated with Sales Representatives, including compensation,
benefits and travel, supervision and training of the Sales Representatives, sales meetings, and
other sales expenses. Sales Costs will not include the startup costs associated with either Party s
sales force, including recruiting, relocation and other similar costs.

A.4.13.  Sales Returns and Allowances   means, as to each Franchise Product in the Co-Promotion
Territory, the sum of (a), (b) and (c) where (a) is a provision, determined under generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States, for (i) trade, cash and quantity discounts or
rebates (other than price discounts granted at the time of invoicing and which are included in the
determination of Gross Sales), (ii) credits or allowances given or made for rejection or return of,
and for uncollectible amounts on, previously sold products or for retroactive price reductions
(including Medicare and similar types of rebates), (iii) taxes, duties or other governmental
charges levied on or measured by the billing amount, as adjusted for rebates and refunds, (iv)
charges for freight and insurance directly related to the distribution of such Franchise Product,
and (v) credits or allowances given or made for wastage replacement, indigent patient and any other
sales programs agreed to by the Parties, (b) is a periodic adjustment of the provision determined
in (a) to reflect amounts actually incurred for (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), and (c) is the
Combination Product Adjustment as defined in the Collaboration Agreement, if any. Provisions
allowed in (a) and adjustments made in (b) and (c) will be reviewed by the Joint Finance Committee.

A.5. Foreign Exchange 

The functional currency for accounting for operating profit will be U.S. Dollars.

The statement of operations will be translated into U.S. dollars using the average exchange rate
for the reporting period.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-67- 

A.6 Audit and Interim Reviews 

A.6.1  Either Party shall have the right to request that an independent accounting firm
selected by such requesting Party, and approved by the other Party (such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld), perform an audit or interim review of the other Party s books (as to all
Franchise Products and also on a product-by-product basis) in order to express an opinion regarding
said Party s compliance with generally accepted accounting principles. Such audits or review will
be conducted at the expense of the requesting Party.

A.6.2  Either Party shall have the right to request that an independent public accounting firm
selected by such requesting Party, and approved by the other Party (such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld), perform an audit of the other Party s books of accounts (as to all
Franchise Products and OCR, and also on a product -by-product basis) for the sole purpose of
verifying compliance with the Agreement. Such audits will be conducted at the expense of the
requesting Party; provided, however, that if the audit results in an adjustment of greater that
  **   of Operating Losses or Profits in any period, the cost of the audit will be borne by the Party
audited. Audit results will be shared with both Parties. Audits are limited to results in the two
(2) years prior to audit notification.

A.6.3  Each Party shall provide the other Party, as reasonably requested, sharable work product
generated by such Party or its accountants with respect to Franchise Products and OCR in
preparation of such providing Party s obligation to comply with the reporting obligations mandated
under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (including implemented federal regulations thereunder);
provided, such providing Party shall have the right to redact such work product to (i) remove any
reference to any products other than a Franchise Product and OCR, and (ii) to preserve any right of
confidentiality not otherwise governed by the terms of Article 11 of the Collaboration Agreement;
provided further, such receiving Party shall only use such information disclosed hereunder to
assist it in complying with the reporting obligations mandated under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of
2002. All costs incurred by the providing Party in complying with such request shall be reimbursed
by the receiving Party.

A.6.4  At either Party s written request, the other Party shall, to the extent commercially
reasonable and practicable, commission, facilitate, support, and/or assist an independent
accounting firm with the execution of an agreed-upon procedures engagement (and written report
thereon), whose scope, frequency and timing will be mutually agreed upon by the Parties, to support
the requesting Party s relevant internal control understanding and compliance assertions. All costs
incurred by the other Party in complying with such request shall be reimbursed by the requesting
Party.

A.7. Payments between the Parties 

Balancing payments between the Parties will be approved by the Management Committee based on
Operating Profit or Loss. Payments will be made quarterly based on actual results within 60 days

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-68- 

after the end of each quarter, adjusted for reimbursement of the net expenses or income incurred or
received by each Party.

A.8. Accounting for Development Costs, Marketing Costs and Sales Costs 

All Development Costs, Marketing Costs and Sales Costs will be based on the appropriate costs
definition stated in Section A.4 of this Exhibit.

Each party shall report Development Costs in a manner consistent with its Project Cost System. In
general, these project cost systems report actual time spent on specific projects, apply the actual
labor costs, capture actual costs of specific projects and allocate other expenses to projects. For
Marketing Costs, the Parties will report costs based on spending in Marketing departments. The
Parties acknowledge that the methodologies used will be based on systems in place and consistent
with Section A.11 of this Exhibit.

For the purpose of determining Sales Costs, the Parties, through the JCC and JFC shall determine
the number of Sales Representatives selling Franchise Products during the period and develop a
method consistent with Sections A.4 and A.11 of this Exhibit to allocate Sales Costs to those Sales
Representatives.

A.9. Sharing of Operating Profits and Losses 

The Parties agree to share the Operating Profit or Loss resulting from the collaborative
arrangement in the Co-Promotion Territory according to the following manner:

A.9.1 Licensed Products.  With regard to Licensed Products, including without limitation, C2B8,
for each calendar year or portion thereof prior to the earlier of the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger,
First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval or First New Product FDA Approval, IDEC and Genentech shall
receive 30% and 70%, respectively, of the first $50 million in Operating Profits (calculated solely
with respect to Licensed Products) and 40% and 60%, respectively, of Operating Profits (calculated
solely with respect to Licensed Products) in excess of $50 million. To the extent there is an
Operating Loss (calculated solely with respect to Licensed Products) on sales of Licensed Product
in the Co-Promotion Territory in any calendar year, IDEC shall absorb 30% and Genentech 70% of such
loss; provided, however, that: (i) Genentech shall finance the cost of building inventory necessary
for product launch, bridging or other studies required under Section 8.1 of the Collaboration
Agreement and other pre-launch marketing or commercial activities approved by the Joint
Commercialization Committee and the Joint Finance Committee, and (ii) IDEC shall repay its 30%
share of such costs following product approvals from the Operating Profits allocated to IDEC in any
calendar quarter. If repayment is not complete three years following first approval, IDEC shall
complete repayment in a lump sum at the end of the next calendar quarter. Interest on any such
repayment will be charged at a rate equal to the sum of   **  .

A.9.2 New Products Prior to the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger, First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval or
First New Product FDA Approval.  With regard to New Products (including without limitation G2H7),
prior to the earlier of the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger, First GA101 Non-

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-69- 

CLL FDA Approval or First New Product FDA Approval, in each calendar year IDEC and Genentech
shall pay   **  , respectively, of all Operating Losses (calculated solely with respect to New
Products).

A.9.3 All Franchise Products following the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger, First Non-CLL GA101 FDA
Approval or First New Product FDA Approval. 

A.9.3a With regard to all Franchise Products, including without limitation C2B8 and G2H7,
following the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger, but prior to either the First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval or
the First New Product FDA Approval, for each calendar year or portion thereof, IDEC and Genentech
shall receive (or pay):

(i) 30% and 70%, respectively, of the first $50 million in Operating Profits
(calculated with respect to all Franchise Products); except that for the calendar year in
which the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger occurs, this first $50 million Operating Profits tier
shall only apply with respect to Operating Profits of all Franchise Products if this first
$50 million Operating Profits tier has not been completely achieved, and then only to the
extent it has not been achieved, with respect to Operating Profits of Licensed Products (as
defined within A.9.1) prior to the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger; and

(ii) 35% and 65%, respectively, of the Operating Profits (calculated with respect to
all Franchise Products) in excess of the first $50 million in Operating Profits (calculated
with respect to all Franchise Products); and

(iii) 35% and 65%, respectively, of any Operating Losses, calculated with respect to
all Franchise Products.

For clarity, on and after the First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval or the First New Product FDA
Approval this section A.9.3a shall no longer apply and the Parties respective share of Operating
Profit or Loss for all Franchise Products shall be determined in accordance with section A.9.3b or
A.9.3c, as applicable, below.

A.9.3b With regard to all Franchise Products, including without limitation C2B8 and G2H7,
following the First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval, but prior to the First New Product FDA Approval,
for each calendar year or portion thereof, IDEC and Genentech shall receive (or pay):

(i) 30% and 70%, respectively, of the first $50 million in Operating Profits
(calculated with respect to all Franchise Products); except that for the calendar
year in which the First GA101 FDA Approval occurs, this first $50 million Operating
Profits tier shall only apply with respect to Operating Profits of all Franchise
Products if this first $50 million Operating Profits tier has not been completely
achieved, and then only to the extent it has not been achieved, with respect to
Operating Profits of Licensed Products (as defined within A.9.1) prior to the First
GA101 FDA Approval; and

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-70- 

(ii) If the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger has not occurred prior to the First Non-CLL
GA101 FDA Approval, then

(x) 39% and 61%, respectively, of the Operating Profits (calculated with
respect to all Franchise Products) in excess of the first $50 million in
Operating Profits (calculated with respect to all Franchise Products) until
the First GA101 Threshold Date (as used herein the  First GA101 Threshold
Date  means the earlier of (1) the date of the First Non-CLL GA101 FDA
Approval if on that date the cumulative Gross Sales (calculated only with
respect to GA101 in the United States) within the consecutive 12 month period
immediately preceding the First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval reached at least
$150,000,000 and (2) if cumulative Gross Sales (calculated only with respect
to GA101 in the United States) had not within the consecutive 12 month period
immediately preceding the First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval reached
$150,000,000 then the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
first date following the First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval that the cumulative
Gross Sales (calculated only with respect to GA101 in the United States)
within any consecutive 12 month period reaches $150,000,000), it being
understood that if the First GA101 Threshold Date is the same date as the
First Non-CLL GA101 FDA Approval, then this subsection (x) is effectively
passed-over and subsection (y) immediately applies; and

(y) 37.5% and 62.5%, respectively, of the Operating Profits (calculated with
respect to all Franchise Products) in excess of the first $50 million in
Operating Profits (calculated with respect to all Franchise Products)
following the First GA101 Threshold Date and until the Second GA101 Threshold
Date (as used herein the  Second GA101 Threshold Date  means first day of the
first calendar quarter following the first date the cumulative Gross Sales
(calculated only with respect to GA101 in the United States) within any
consecutive 12 month period reaches $500,000,000); and

(z) 35% and 65%, respectively, of the Operating Profits (calculated with
respect to all Franchise Products) following the Second GA101 Threshold Date;

(iii) If the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger has occurred prior to the First Non-CLL
GA101 FDA Approval, then 35% and 65%, respectively, of the Operating
Profits (calculated with respect to all Franchise Products) in excess of the
first $50 million in Operating Profits (calculated with respect to all Franchise
Products); and

(iv) 35% and 65%, respectively, of any Operating Losses, calculated with respect
to all Franchise Products.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-71- 

Within a calendar month that the First GA101 Threshold Date or the Second GA101 Threshold Date is
met, Operating Profits shall be calculated by (x) pro-rating the expenses in such month on a
straight line basis to pre and post threshold time frames, (y) identifying daily product sales
within such calendar month by the pre and post threshold timeframes and (z) allocating their
related Cost-of-Sales by the proper product sales proportions for pre and post threshold
timeframes.

For clarity, on and after the First New Product FDA Approval this section A.9.3b shall no longer
apply and the Parties respective share of Operating Profit or Loss for all Franchise Products shall
be determined in accordance with section A.9.3c below.

A.9.3.c With regard to all Franchise Products, including without limitation C2B8, following
the First New Product FDA Approval, for each calendar year or portion thereof, IDEC and Genentech
shall receive (or pay):

(i) 30% and 70%, respectively, of the first $50 million in Operating Profits
(calculated with respect to all Franchise Products); except that for the calendar
year in which the First New Product FDA Approval occurs, this first $50 million
Operating Profits tier shall only apply with respect to Operating Profits of all
Franchise Products if this first $50 million Operating Profits tier has not been
completely achieved, and then only to the extent it has not been achieved, with
respect to Operating Profits of Licensed Products (as defined within A.9.1) prior to
the First New Product FDA Approval; and

(ii) prior to the First GA101 Threshold Date 38% and 62%, and after the First GA101
Threshold Date 37.5% and 62.5%, respectively, of the Operating Profits (calculated
with respect to all Franchise Products) in excess of the first $50 million in
Operating Profits (calculated with respect to all Franchise Products) until the First
Threshold Date (as used herein the  First Threshold Date  means the earlier of (1)
the GA101 CLL Sales Trigger, (2) the Second GA101 Threshold Date and (3) the later of
(x) the first date the Gross Sales in any calendar year (calculated only with respect
to New Products in the United States) reaches $150,000,000, and (y) January 1 of the
calendar year following the calendar year in which the First New Product FDA Approval
occurs if Gross Sales of New Products reached $150,000,000 within the same calendar
year in which the First New Product FDA Approval occurred); and

(iii) 35% and 65%, respectively, of the Operating Profits (calculated with respect to
all Franchise Products) in excess of the first $50 million in Operating Profits
(calculated with respect to all Franchise Products) following the First Threshold
Date and until the Second Threshold Date (as used herein the  Second Threshold Date 
means the later of (x) the first date the Gross Sales in any calendar year
(calculated only with respect to New Products in the United States) reaches
$350,000,000, and (y) January 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in
which the First Threshold Date occurs); and

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-72- 

(iv) 30% and 70%, respectively, of the Operating Profits (calculated with respect to
all Franchise Products) following the Second Threshold Date; and

(v) 30% and 70%, respectively, of any Operating Losses, calculated with respect to
all Franchise Products.

Within a calendar month that the First Threshold Date or the Second Threshold Date is met,
Operating Profits shall be calculated by (x) pro-rating the expenses in such month on a straight
line basis to pre and post threshold time frames, (y) identifying daily product sales within such
calendar month by the pre and post threshold timeframes and (z) allocating their related Cost-of
Sales by the proper product sales proportions for pre and post threshold timeframes.

The Parties  respective share of Operating Profit or Loss in the Co-Promotion Territory for
Licensed Products and other Franchise Products, as described in this Section A.9, is summarized in
the table attached as Appendix A-1 to this Exhibit.

A.10. Start of Operations 

Operation of GenIDEC will be deemed to have commenced on April 1, 1995. Costs incurred prior to
April 1, 1995, are not chargeable to GenIDEC. Costs incurred with respect to a Potential New
Product prior to the time such product becomes a New Product under the Collaboration Agreement are
not chargeable to GenIDEC.

A.11. Guidelines for Charging Costs 

The following guidelines shall be used in determining amounts chargeable to GenIDEC subject to the
cost definitions in Section A.4 of this Exhibit. Disputes over the allocation of costs are not
subject to Genentech  s tie breaking vote under Section 17.1.

A.11.1  If an expense is specifically and exclusively (i.e., for no other product)
used for the development or commercialization of a Franchise Product in the Field in
the Co-Promotion Territory, then 100% of the expense will be charged to GenIDEC.

A.11.2  If an expense is specifically and exclusively (i.e., for no other product)
used for the development or commercialization of a Franchise Product in the Field in
both the Co-Promotion Territory and the Licensed Territory, then the following shall
apply:

(a) If the portion of that expense used for the development or commercialization of
such Franchise Product in the Field in the Licensed Territory can be objectively
determined through specific means (e.g., man hours of effort, amounts consumed,
etc.), then the amount so used will be charged to Genentech and the remaining portion
will be charged to GenIDEC.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-73- 

(b) If the Franchise Product is a Licensed Product and if the portion of that expense
used for the development or commercialization of such Franchise Product in the Field
in the Licensed Territory cannot be objectively determined through specific means,
then only the direct and incremental costs related to such Franchise Product in the
Field in the Licensed Territory will be charged to Genentech and the remaining
portion will be charged to GenIDEC.

(c) If the Franchise Product is a New Product and if the portion of that expense used
for the development or commercialization of such Franchise Product in the Field in
the Licensed Territory cannot be objectively determined through specific means, then
only the direct and incremental costs related to such Franchise Product in the Field
in the Co-Promotion Territory will be charged to GenIDEC and the remaining portion
will be charged to Genentech.

A.11.3  If an expense within the Co-Promotion Territory is not specifically and
exc1usively (i.e., for other products in addition to a Franchise Product) used for
the development or commercialization of a Franchise Product in the Field in the
Co-Promotion Territory, then the following shall apply:

(a) If the portion of that expense used for the development or commercialization of a
Franchise Product in the Field in the Co-Promotion Territory can be objectively
determined through specific means (e.g., man hours of effort, amounts consumed,
etc.), then the amount so used will be charged to GenIDEC.

(b) If the portion of that expense used for the development or commercialization of a
Franchise Product in the Field in the Co-Promotion Territory cannot be objectively
determined through specific means, then only the direct and incremental costs related
to the Franchise Product in the Field shall be charged to GenIDEC.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-74- 

Appendix A-1

Operating Profit and Loss split expressed as Biogen Idec:GNE (e.g. 40:60  = 40%  Biogen Idec: 60% GNE) 

THIS CHART IS FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY. ACCORDINGLY, IF THERE IS ANY CONFLICT OR
INCONSISTENCY BETWEEN THIS CHART AND SECTION A.9 OF THE FINANCIAL APPENDIX, SECTION A.9 OF THE
FINANCIAL APPENDIX CONTROLS.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-75- 

Exhibit B 

C2B8 

C2B8  shall have the meaning as defined in Exhibit B to the Original Agreement.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-76- 

Exhibit D 

IDEC   Third Party License Agreements 

IDEC- Third Party License Agreements  shall have the meaning as defined in Exhibit D to the
Original Agreement.

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-77- 

Exhibit G 

Excluded Patents 

Cabilly Patents  

Cabilly Patents  shall mean the  Licensed Patents  as defined in Section 1.09 of the Cabilly
License (as defined in the Collaboration Agreement).

Itakura/Riggs Patents  

Itakura/Riggs Patents  shall mean any of the U.S. patents listed below and any and all
divisionals, continuations, continuations-in-part, reissues, reexaminations or extensions of these
patents or of any application from which these U.S patents claim priority, as well as foreign
counterparts of the foregoing.

U.S. 4,356,270 
U.S. 4,366,246 
U.S. 4,425,437 
U.S. 4,431,739 
U.S. 4,563,424 
U.S. 4,571,421 
U.S. 4,704,362 
U.S. 4,812,554 
U.S. 5,221,619 
U.S. 5,420,020 
U.S. 5,583,013

**  = 
       
      Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-78- 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 3
 b83162exv10w6.htm
 EX-10.6

exv10w6 

Exhibit 10.6 

Confidential Materials omitted and filed separately with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. Asterisks denote omissions. 

Genentech 

A Member of the Roche Group 

October 18, 2010

Susan Alexander, Corporate Secretary 
Biogen Idec Inc. 
Legal Department 
133 Boston Post Road 
Weston, Massachusetts 02493

Re:      GA101 Financial Terms

Dear Susan:

As you know, since 1995 the Parties have engaged in a collaboration to develop and commercialize
various anti-CD20 products, including Rituxan  and G2H7, under that certain Amended and Restated
Collaboration Agreement by and between Genentech, Inc. (  Genentech  ) and IDEC
Pharmaceuticals Corporation (the predecessor to Biogen Idec Inc.) (  Biogen Idec  ) effective
as of June 19, 2003 (  Amended and Restated Agreement  ). On October 28, 2008, Biogen Idec
elected to participate in the Third Party Anti-CD20 Products GA101 Licensed Products (as defined
below), under the terms enumerated in a notice letter from Genentech to Biogen Idec dated October
1, 2008 (  GA101 Notice  ).

As a result of discussions between our respective companies, Biogen Idec and Genentech have agreed
to change certain financial and other terms applicable to Rituxan , G2H7 and GA101 Licensed
Products. The changes with respect to Rituxan , G2H7 (and other anti-CD20 products subject to the
Amended and Restated Agreement) are memorialized in a Second Amended and Restated Collaboration
Agreement by and between Biogen Idec and Genentech effective October 18, 2010 (  Second Amended
and Restated Agreement  ). In this letter agreement (  GA101 Letter Agreement  ), Biogen
Idec and Genentech desire to memorialize their further agreement regarding the financial terms
applicable to GA101 Licensed Products and other matters respecting GA101 Licensed Products,
supplementing the terms set forth in the GA101 Notice.

In this GA101 Letter Agreement, Genentech and Biogen Idec are sometimes referred to individually as
a   Party   and collectively as the   Parties .  All capitalized terms and phrases
used, but not defined, in this GA101 Letter Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
the Second Amended and Restated Agreement.

1 

For good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged,
Genentech and Biogen Idec agree, as of the date of this GA101 Letter Agreement above (  GA101
Letter Agreement Date  ), as follows:

(1)  
       
      Definitions  

For the purposes of this GA101 Letter Agreement, the following terms and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them below: 

Biogen Idec Know-How   means Information which (i) Biogen Idec disclosed or
discloses to Genentech under the Amended and Restated Agreement, or in connection with the
GA101 Notice or this GA101 Letter Agreement, and (ii) is within the Control of Biogen Idec. 

Biogen Idec Patents   means the rights under a Patent which covers a method,
apparatus, material, manufacture, use, treatment, process, compound, composition or
product-by-process necessary to develop, make, use or sell, offer for sale or import GA101
Licensed Products, in each case which Patent is Controlled by Biogen Idec, including its
interest in any Patents owned jointly by the Parties as provided in the Amended and Restated
Agreement. 

GA101 Licensed Products   means  Licensed Products  as defined in the
Genentech/Roche GA101 Agreement (as defined below). 

Genentech/Roche GA101 Agreement   means the GA101 License and Collaboration
Agreement made and entered on September 23, 2008 by and between F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and
GlycArt Biotechnology AG and Genentech. 

Information   means techniques and data, including, but not limited to, biological
materials, inventions, practices, methods, knowledge, know-how, skill, experience, test data
(including pharmacological, toxicological and clinical test data), analytical and quality
control data, marketing, pricing, distribution, cost, sales, manufacturing, patent data or
descriptions. 

US Territory   shall mean the United States. 

(2)  
       
      Gross-Up Payments  

Biogen Idec shall, within thirty (30) days of the GA101 Letter Agreement Date, pay Genentech nine
million four hundred thirty thousand five hundred twenty four US dollars (US $9,430,524). Such
payment shall he made in immediately available funds by wire transfer to an account designated by
Genentech.

The foregoing amount represents: (i)   **  ; (ii) five percent (5%) of the Operating Loss (as
applicable to GA101 Licensed Products) incurred with respect to GA101 Licensed Products

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request. An unredacted version of this
exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-2- 

through June 30, 2010; and (iii) an amount representing interest on the amounts in (i) and (ii)
above and agreed to by the Parties.

Genentech shall, within sixty (60) days following the GA101 Letter Agreement Date, provide Biogen
Idec with an invoice for the amount of Operating Loss (as applicable to GA101 Licensed Products)
incurred with respect to GA101 Licensed Products for the period beginning July 1, 2010 through
September 30, 2010. Biogen Idec shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of such invoice, pay
Genentech the invoiced amount. Such payment shall be made in immediately available funds by wire
transfer to an account designated by Genentech.

(3)  
       
      Share of Operating Profit or Loss for GA101 Licensed Products  

The Parties shall share the Operating Profit or Losses for GA101 Licensed Products in the US
Territory in the following manner:

(i) 
       
      Operating Losses for GA101 Licensed Products . 
Commencing on October 1, 2010, Biogen Idec and Genentech shall pay 35% and 65%,
respectively, of Operating Losses of GA101 Licensed Products; 

(ii) 
       
      Operating Profits for GA101 Licensed Products . 
Commencing on October 1, 2010, Biogen Idec and Genentech shall, for each calendar
year or portion thereof, share Operating Profits of GA101 Licensed Products as
follows: 

(A) 
       
     35% and 65%, respectively, of the first   **   in Operating
Profits of GA101 for such Licensed Products for such calendar year of portion
thereof; 

(B) 
       
     39% and 61% respectively, of the Operating Profits of GA101 for
such calendar year or portion thereof in excess of the first   **   until the
First Threshold Date (as used herein   First Threshold Date   means the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the first date the cumulative
Gross Sales (calculated only with respect to GA101 Licensed Products in the US
Territory) within any consecutive 12 month period reaches   **  ; 

(C) 
       
       **  , respectively, of the Operating Profits of GA101 for such
calendar year or portion thereof in excess of the first   **   following the
First Threshold Date and until the Second Threshold Date (as used herein
 Second GA101 Threshold Date  means the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the first date the cumulative Gross Sales (calculated only with
respect to GA101 Licensed Products in the US Territory) within any consecutive
12 month period reaches   **  ; and 

(D) 
       
       ** ,  respectively, of the Operating Profits of GA101 Licensed
Products for such calendar year or portion thereof following the Second
Threshold Date. 

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-3- 

Biogen Idec hereby grants to Genentech a worldwide, nonexclusive license under the Biogen Idec
Patents and Biogen Idec Know-How to develop, make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, have sold
and import GA101 Licensed Products. Such license shall include the right to grant sublicenses with
the prior written consent of Biogen Idec, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. Biogen
Idec hereby consents to such a sublicense to F. Hoffmann La Roche or any of its affiliates. Unless
otherwise agreed, each sublicensee shall be subject to all of the obligations of Genentech
hereunder applicable to that part of the territory to which the sublicense applies.

Genentech shall not, without Biogen Idec s prior written consent (which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed), exercise a    **   Opt-Out or a    **   Opt-Out  (each as defined in
the Genentech/Roche GA101 Agreement) for any GA101 Licensed Product for which the Parties continue
to share Operating Profits or Losses in the circumstance in which Roche has not also exercised a
   **   Opt-Out  or a    **   Opt-Out  (each as defined in the Genentech/Roche GA101 Agreement) with
respect to such GA101 Licensed Product.

For the sake of clarity, Biogen Idec acknowledges and agrees that Genentech retains the right under
the Genentech/Roche GA101 Agreement to, in its sole discretion, opt-out of the development and/or
commercialization of any and all GA101 Licensed Products for which Roche has exercised a    **  
Opt-Out  or a    **   Opt-Out  (each as defined in the Genentech/Roche GA101 Agreement), and that the
foregoing provision applies regardless of the means by which the Parties have arrived at no longer
sharing Operating Profit or Losses for a GA101 Licensed Product (including by operation of Section
15.2 of the Second Amended and Restated Agreement and/or as a result of termination of the Second
Amended and Restated Agreement).

(6)  
       
      No Modification of Other Terms  

Except as specifically set forth above, all terms and conditions set forth in the GA101 Notice
shall remain in full force and effect.

Genentech and Biogen Idec represent and warrant to each other that, as of the Effective Date, (i)
this GA101 Letter Agreement is a legal and valid obligation binding upon them and enforceable
against it in accordance with its terms; and (ii) the execution, delivery and performance of this
GA101 Letter Agreement by it does not conflict with any agreement, instrument or understanding,
oral or written to which it is a party or by which it is bound, nor, to its knowledge, violates any
law or regulation of any court, governmental body or administrative or other agency having
jurisdiction over it.

This GA101 Letter Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties in relation to the
matters contained herein, and supersedes all prior and/or contemporary agreements and
understandings that may exist between the Parties, whether written, oral or otherwise, relating to

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-4- 

the subject matter hereof. The Parties agree that, except as expressly modified by this GA101
Letter Agreement, all terms and conditions of the Second Amended and Restated Agreement and GA101
Notice, as applicable, shall remain in full force and effect.

****

signatures to follow  

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-5- 

If you are in agreement with the foregoing, please have a duly authorized representative execute
the enclosed triplicate originals and return it to my attention. Thank you.

Acknowledged and Agreed to By: 

Genentech, Inc

By:  
Name:

/s/ Steve Krognes

Steve Krognes

Title:

Chief Financial Officer 

Acknowledged and Agreed to By:  

Biogen Idec Inc. 

By:  
Name:

/s/ George Scangos

George Scangos

Title:

Chief Executive Officer 

**  
       
     = Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request.
An unredacted version of this exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission. 

-6- 

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.43>
 4
 b83162exv10w43.htm
 EX-10.43

exv10w43 

Exhibit 10.43

MEMORANDUM

The following is a summary of the retainers and meeting fees payable to directors effective July 1,
2010.

Retainers and Fees 

Annual Retainers 

$35,000

Board retainer 

$20,000

additional annual retainer for chair of Finance and Audit Committee 

$5,000

additional annual retainer for
members of Finance and Audit Committee (other than Chair) 

$15,000

additional annual retainer for chairs of Corporate Governance Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee and Science and Technology Committee 

$60,000

additional annual retainer for Chairman of the Board 

Annual retainers will be paid in four equal quarterly installments.

Meeting Fees 

$2,500

each Board meeting attended (in person or by videoconference) 

$1,500

each Board meeting attended (by teleconference) 

$1,500

each committee meeting attended (in person or by teleconference) 

Meeting fees will be paid for attendance at formal meetings of the Board or its committees,
i.e., those for which meeting minutes are prepared. Meeting fees will not be paid for informal
gatherings of directors.

Special Service Fee (extraordinary) 

The special service fee is for a full day of service, excluding services (and travel) relating to
Board or committee meetings, at the request of the Board or the Company and which involves
extensive travel by a director. It is expected that situations for which a special service fee is
due will be infrequent.

</EX-10.43>

<EX-10.55>
 5
 b83162exv10w55.htm
 EX-10.55

exv10w55 

Exhibit 10.55

Revised January 6, 2010

Mr. Francesco Granata 
Via Serbelloni 8 
20122 Milano, Italy

Dear Francesco:

I am pleased to extend you this revised offer of employment to join Biogen Idec as EVP, Global
Commercial Operations. This letter supersedes and replaces our letter dated December 15, 2009.
This position will report to Bob Hamm, Chief Operating Officer. The position will be initially
based at our Cambridge, Massachusetts facility and is expected to move to our Weston, Massachusetts
facility during 2010.

Base Salary:  Your starting bi-weekly salary will be $23,076.93, which is equivalent to an annual
salary of $600,000.18 and which will be paid in accordance with our standard payroll policies.

One-time Cash Bonus:  Upon employment, you will receive $400,000 as a one-time cash bonus. The
bonus will be paid to you within two pay periods after your start date provided that you sign the
enclosed Cash Sign-On Bonus Agreement, which describes the terms and conditions of the cash sign-on
bonus.

Annual Bonus Plan:  You will be eligible to participate in the Biogen Idec Annual Bonus Plan, with
a target bonus opportunity of 55% of your annualized base salary. Based upon your start date, your
target bonus amount may be pro-rated. Eligibility details and other terms of the Plan are included
in the current year s Plan document, which will be made available upon your employment with the
Company.

Long-Term Incentive:  You will be granted Cash-Settled Performance Shares (CSPS) in connection with
the commencement of your employment. The approximate grant date value of your CSPS award will be
$850,000. You will also be granted Market Stock Units (MSU) in connection with the commencement of
your employment. The approximate grant date value of your MSU award will be $850,000.

Your CSPS and MSU awards will be granted on the later of: (1) the first trading day of the month
following your start date and (2) the date upon which the Compensation and Management Development
Committee (CMDC) determines the performance metrics, payout curves, calculation of grants and
calculation of results for these awards.

The actual terms of your CSPS and MSU awards will be communicated to you following the grant date.
Your grants will be awarded under the Biogen Idec Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan. You are
considered a  designated employee,  as defined in the 2008 Omnibus Equity Plan. Our 2008 Omnibus
Equity Plan and Prospectus are available to you on Biogen Idec s benefits website at
www.mybenergy.com. Please read these documents for information about your LTI grants.

Stock Trading Plan:  As an Executive Vice President of the Company, you are required to enter into
a 10b5-1 stock trading plan for all open market trades in Biogen Idec stock. A 10b5-1 plan allows
you to buy or sell Biogen Idec securities at pre-defined times and/or prices and provides an
affirmative defense against insider trading liability. More information on 10b5-1 trading plans
will be made available upon your employment with the Company.

Role:  As noted above, you will be the Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations
reporting to the Chief Operating Officer of the Company. In addition to your current
responsibilities, within eighteen months following commencement of employment the Company will
assign you additional global responsibilities and you will be made a direct report to the CEO.

Relocation:  Biogen Idec will provide relocation benefits to facilitate your move from New York
City to the Boston, Massachusetts area. The relocation benefits and payments will be provided to
you after you sign the enclosed U.S. Domestic Relocation Policy Acknowledgement and Relocation
Repayment Agreement, detailing the terms and conditions of your relocation benefits. Certain
payments and/or reimbursements from Biogen Idec for relocation and housing will be taxable income
to you and, as such, payroll taxes will be withheld. Payments and reimbursements will be made in
accordance with Biogen Idec s relocation policy and the enclosed Addendum to the U.S. Domestic
Relocation Policy, to which you should refer for more details on your relocation benefits.

Employee Benefits:  Biogen Idec offers a robust and highly competitive employee benefits program.
As an employee, you will be able to choose from a menu of options through our flexible benefits
program. These benefits include a 401(k) savings plan; group health care, including medical,
dental, prescription drug and vision coverage; life, dependent life and disability insurance; as
well as flexible spending accounts for eligible medical and dependent care expenses. You are also
entitled to 20 vacation days per year, accrued on a per pay period basis. Additional benefit
offerings include an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) and work/life benefits such as a concierge
service and access to subsidized back-up dependent care. Please visit Biogen Idec s benefits
website at www.mybenergy.com to familiarize yourself with Biogen Idec s complete benefit plan
offerings.

Additional Executive Benefits 

Supplemental Savings Plan:  You will be entitled to participate in Biogen Idec s Supplemental
Savings Plan (SSP). This plan allows you to make pre-tax deferrals of up to 80% of your base
salary and up to 100% of your Annual Bonus payment and certain other eligible incentive
payments. Your contributions to this plan may be limited by your contributions towards other
plans (e.g., 401(k), ESPP, medical, etc.). You will be provided with SSP enrollment information
upon your employment with the Company.

Life Insurance:  You will be provided life insurance coverage equal to three times your annual
base salary, subject to meeting the medical standards stated in the group term life insurance
policy for U.S. employees. Biogen Idec pays the premium for this insurance. The IRS requires
employers to impute the value of company-paid life insurance for coverage over $50,000. This
imputed income will be displayed on your pay stub.

Severance:  Under certain circumstances, you will be entitled to receive severance benefits.
Your severance benefits are explained in detail in the attached executive severance document.
If your total severance benefits will trigger 280G excise taxes, you may elect to have Biogen
Idec reduce the amount of your total benefits to an amount which does not trigger any 280G
excise tax. To facilitate your decision, Biogen Idec will estimate at the time of severance
whether any 280G excise tax will be owed on severance and the amount of that excise tax.

Tax Preparation, Financial and Estate Planning:  You are entitled to reimbursement of up to
$7,500 per calendar year (January 1   December 31) for expenses incurred due to tax preparation,
financial and/or estate planning services, as well as the purchase of tax preparation and/or
financial planning software. You will be provided with details of this benefit upon your
employment with the Company. Reimbursement must be made no later than the end of the calendar
year following the year in which the expense is incurred, and must be requested within the
deadlines and processes established in the policy.

You are required to satisfy the following contingencies prior to employment at Biogen Idec.

Drug Screen:  A completed drug-screen test is required before your start of employment.
Please see the enclosed information regarding Biogen Idec s Pre-Employment Drug Testing
program. Your employment is subject to Biogen Idec receiving negative results (i.e., no
drugs found) from your drug test. If you have not received confirmation of your test
results from Human Resources within a week prior to your start date, please contact me to
confirm your test results prior to starting. 

Background Check:  Your employment is subject to satisfactory completion of Biogen
Idec s background check, which includes verification of employment history, educational and
professional licenses, degrees and/or credentials, a criminal records check, a Social
Security Number search and verification of any other professional qualifications that your
position responsibilities at Biogen Idec may warrant. Completion of your online
Application for Employment authorizes Biogen Idec to conduct these background checks. To
complete your online Application for Employment, please go to
 http://biogen.biogenidec.com/candidate/  (use the Application Station Code BGNDV01).
If you have any questions about the background check, please contact me. 

Authorization to Work in the United States:  The Federal government requires you to
provide proper identification verifying your eligibility to work in the United States. We
will provide assistance to you, including engaging the services of Fragomen, in obtaining
appropriate authorization to work in the United States, which will be required prior to the
commencement of your employment. 

Signed Proprietary Agreement:  In order to protect Biogen Idec s substantial investment
in creating and maintaining its confidential and proprietary information, and to maintain
goodwill with our customers, vendors and other business partners, you will be required to
sign our  Employee Proprietary Information and Inventions and Dispute Resolution Agreement 
as a condition of employment. A copy of the Agreement is enclosed with this letter.
Please sign and return this Agreement with your signed acceptance of our offer. 

Non-Competition Agreement:  Because you will be in a position of significance and will
have access to highly confidential information, as a condition of employment at Biogen
Idec, you will be required to sign a non-competition agreement prior to your first day of
employment. Please sign and return the enclosed copy of this agreement with your signed
acceptance of our offer. 

Your employment at Biogen Idec is employment at-will. This means that just as you are free to
leave your employment at any time, with or without cause or notice, Biogen Idec also has the same
right to terminate your employment at any time, with or without cause or notice. 

To confirm your acceptance of this offer of employment, please sign and return this letter and keep
the other copy for your records. Review and complete the enclosed New Employee Checklist with
actions required in order to begin your acceptance process. Your new employee paperwork should be
completed within 48 hours of accepting this offer of employment, and a completed drug-screen test
is required before your start of employment. The New Employee Checklist provides instructions for
your first day of employment.

We are very excited about the prospect of you joining Biogen Idec. We encourage you to accept this
offer of employment by December 24, 2009.

Best regards,

/s/ Craig E. Schneier, Ph.D.

Craig E. Schneier, Ph.D. 
EVP, Human Resources, Public Affairs   Communications

cc: 
       
     Bob Hamm 
Jim Mullen 

I accept this offer of employment and acknowledge the contingencies of employment described above,
including the at-will nature of my employment.

ACCEPTED: 

</EX-10.55>

<EX-21>
 6
 b83162exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

Exhibit 21 

BIOGEN IDEC INC 

The following is a list of subsidiaries of Biogen Idec Inc. as of December 31, 2010, omitting some
subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.

STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF  

SUBSIDIARY  
       
      INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION  

Biogen Idec MA Inc.

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec New Ventures, Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Manufacturing Holding LLC

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Holding I Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Holding II Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Realty Corporation

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec Realty Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Corporation

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec (RTP) Realty LLC

Delaware 

The Biogen Idec Foundation Inc.

Massachusetts 

Biogen Idec U.S. Pacific LLC

Delaware 

Biogen Idec U.S. West Corporation

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Therapeutics Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Nobel Research Center, LLC

Delaware 

Conforma Therapeutics Corporation

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Hemophilia Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec Canada Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec SRO, Inc.

Delaware 

Biogen Idec (Argentina) SRL

Argentina 

Biogen Idec Australia PTY Ltd

Australia 

Biogen Idec Austria GmbH

Austria 

Biogen Idec Belgium N.V./S.A.

Belgium 

Biogen Idec Brazil Produtos Farmaceuticos LTDA

Brazil 

Biogen Idec (Czech Republic) s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) A/S

Denmark 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) Manufacturing ApS

Denmark 

Biogen Idec Holding APS

Denmark 

Biogen Idec Finland OY

Finland 

Biogen Idec France S.A.S.

France 

Biogen Idec GmbH

Germany 

Biogen Idec Biotech India Pvt. Ltd.

India 

Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd.

Ireland 

Biogen Idec Japan Ltd.

Japan 

Biogen Idec Mexico S. DE R.L. DE C.V.

Mexico 

Biogen Idec B.V.

The Netherlands 

Biogen Idec International B.V.

The Netherlands 

Biogen Idec Norway AS

Norway 

Biogen Idec NZ Ltd.

New Zealand 

Biogen Idec Portugal Sociedade Farmaceutica, Unipessoal, Lda.

Portugal 

Biogen Idec Iberia, S.L.

Spain 

Biogen Idec (Slovak Republic) s.r.o.

Slovak Republic 

Biogen Idec promet s farmacevtskimi in biotehnoloskimi proizvodi d.o.o

Slovenia 

Biogen Idec Sweden AB

Sweden 

Biogen Idec International GmbH

Switzerland 

Eidetica Biopharma GmbH

Switzerland 

Biogen Idec Ltd.

UK 

Biogen-Dompe AG

Switzerland 

Biogen-Dompe SRL

Italy 

Biogen Idec Luxembourg Holding SARL

Luxembourg 

Biogen Idec International Holding Limited

Bermuda 

Arrowpark Interseas Ltd

Isle of Man 

Wolter Interseas Ltd

Isle of Man 

STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF  

SUBSIDIARY  
       
      INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION  

Biogen Idec Management Services GmbH

Switzerland 

Biogen Idec (Denmark) New Manufacturing ApS

Denmark 

Fundacion Biogen Idec

Spain 

Biogen Idec (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 

Biogen Idec (Singapore) Pte Ltd

Singapore 

Biogen Idec Hungary KFT

Hungary 

Biogen Idec Uruguay SA

Uruguay 

Biogen Idec Chile Spa

Chile 

Panima Pharmaceuticals GmbH

Switzerland 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 b83162exv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.
333-107098) and Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-97211, 333-106794, 333-47904,
333-65494, 333-110432, 333-110433, 333-128339, 333-152456, 333-128339, 333-140817 and
333-170133) of Biogen Idec Inc. of our report   dated February 4, 2011 relating to the
financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which
appears in this Form 10-K . 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts 
February 4, 2011

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 b83162exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, George A. Scangos, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report of Biogen Idec Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in
the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 4, 2011  
     /s/ George A. Scangos

George A. Scangos  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 b83162exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Paul J. Clancy, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report of Biogen Idec Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in
the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 4, 2011  
     /s/ Paul J. Clancy

Paul J. Clancy     

Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 b83162exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

CERTIFICATION 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section
1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), each of the undersigned officers of Biogen Idec
Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify, to such officer s knowledge,
that:

The
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the  Form 10-K ) of the
Company fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, and the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: February 4, 2011  
     /s/ George A. Scangos

George A. Scangos  

Chief Executive Officer 
 principal executive officer   

Dated: February 4, 2011  
     /s/ Paul J. Clancy

Paul J. Clancy  

Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer 
 principal financial officer   

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 biib-20101231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 biib-20101231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 biib-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 biib-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 biib-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 biib-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

