<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20091016_10-K_edgar_data_909832_0001193125-09-208963_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1478604</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>254627</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>998168</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>73</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-208963.hdr.sgml : 20091016
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20091016124107
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-208963
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20090830
FILED AS OF DATE:		20091016
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20091016

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP /NEW
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000909832
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-VARIETY STORES [5331]
		IRS NUMBER:				911223280
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0830

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20355
		FILM NUMBER:		091122916

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		999 LAKE DRIVE
		CITY:			ISSAQUAH
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98027-
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4253138100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		999 LAKE DRIVE
		CITY:			ISSAQUAH
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98027

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	COSTCO COMPANIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19970401

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PRICE/COSTCO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19930728

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Alzg0SMsXGaYmamWX5191bqBMpcZsvJpTeZWifT89rdrsi9EFkujS8O6AN7/dAgm
 UagJWmdk/qEzr+4t/zhaOA==

 0001193125-09-208963.txt : 20091016

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              FORM 10-K        
     For the fiscal year ended August 30, 2009        OR        
    Commission file number 0-20355                 Costco Wholesale
Corporation       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)       

Washington   
     
   91-1223280    
 
    (State or other jurisdiction of     incorporation or organization)   
     
  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   
     999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027       (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)      Registrant s telephone
number, including area code:  (425) 313-8100         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Common Stock, $.005 Par Value  
     
  The NASDAQ Global Select Market   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None                    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES            NO              Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES            NO              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES            NO              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). YES    
        NO        
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.       

Large accelerated filer           
      
  Accelerated filer           
 
    Non-accelerated filer         (Do not check if a smaller company)   
      
  Smaller reporting company           
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act). YES            NO              The aggregate market
value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant at February 15, 2009 was $18,392,604,029      The number of shares
outstanding of the registrant s common stock as of October 2, 2009 was 435,989,212       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
     Portions of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 28, 2010, are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.               

Table of Contents  

    COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED AUGUST 30, 2009         
 TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    
 
      PART I      

Item 1.   
      
     Business    
      
  3   
 
    Item 1A.   
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  9   
 
    Item 1B.   
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  15   
 
    Item 2.   
      
     Properties    
      
  16   
 
    Item 3.   
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  16   
 
    Item 4.   
      
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  17   

PART II      

Item 5.   
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities    
      
  18   
 
    Item 6.   
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  19   
 
    Item 7.   
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  20   
 
    Item 7A.   
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  37   
 
    Item 8.   
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  38   
 
    Item 9.   
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  39   
 
    Item 9A.   
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  39   
 
    Item 9B.   
      
     Other Information    
      
  40   

PART III     

Item 10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  41   
 
    Item 11.   
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  41   
 
    Item 12.   
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

41   
 
    Item 13.   
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  41   
 
    Item 14.   
      
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
      
  41   

PART IV     

Item 15.   
      
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  41   
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

   Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that we expect or anticipate may occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties that may cause actual events, results, or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. See Item 1A Risk Factors for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect our business.
        PART I          Item 1 Business       Costco Wholesale Corporation and its subsidiaries ( Costco 
or the  Company ) began operations in 1983 in Seattle, Washington. In October 1993, we merged with The Price Company, which had pioneered the membership warehouse concept, to form Price/Costco, Inc., a Delaware corporation. In January
1997, after the spin-off of most of our non-warehouse assets to Price Enterprises, Inc., we changed our name to Costco Companies, Inc. On August 30, 1999, we reincorporated from Delaware to Washington and changed our name to Costco Wholesale
Corporation. Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  COST.        General       We operate membership warehouses based on the concept that offering our members low prices on a limited selection of nationally branded and selected
private-label products in a wide range of merchandise categories will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. This rapid inventory turnover, when combined with the operating efficiencies achieved by volume purchasing, efficient
distribution and reduced handling of merchandise in no-frills, self-service warehouse facilities, enables us to operate profitably at significantly lower gross margins than traditional wholesalers, mass merchandisers, supermarkets, and supercenters.
     We buy the majority of our merchandise directly from manufacturers and route it to a cross-docking consolidation point
( depot ) or directly to our warehouses. Our depots receive container-based shipments from manufacturers and reallocate these goods for shipment to our individual warehouses, generally in less than twenty-four hours. This maximizes freight
volume and handling efficiencies, lowering our receiving costs by eliminating many of the costs associated with multiple-step distribution channels. Such traditional steps include purchasing from distributors as opposed to manufacturers, use of
central receiving, storing and distributing warehouses, and storage of merchandise in locations off the sales floor.      Because of our
high sales volume and rapid inventory turnover, we generally have the opportunity to sell and be paid for inventory before we are required to pay many of our merchandise vendors, even though we take advantage of early payment discounts whenever
available to us. To the extent that sales increase and inventory turnover becomes more rapid, a greater percentage of inventory is financed through payment terms provided by suppliers rather than by our working capital.      Our typical warehouse format averages approximately 143,000 square feet; newer units tend to be larger. Floor plans are designed for economy and
efficiency in the use of selling space, the handling of merchandise, and the control of inventory. Because shoppers are attracted principally by the quality of merchandise and the availability of low prices, our warehouses need not have elaborate
facilities. By strictly controlling the entrances and exits of our warehouses and using a membership format, we have limited inventory losses (shrinkage) to less than two-tenths of one percent of net sales in the last several fiscal years well
below those of typical discount retail operations.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)          
   We generally limit marketing and promotional activities to new warehouse openings, occasional
direct mail to prospective new members and regular direct marketing programs (such as The Costco Connection, a magazine we publish for our members, coupon mailers, weekly email blasts from costco.com, and handouts) to existing members promoting
selected merchandise. These practices result in lower marketing expenses as compared to typical retailers. In connection with new warehouse openings, our marketing teams personally contact businesses in the area that are potential wholesale members.
These contacts are supported by direct mailings during the period immediately prior to opening. Potential Gold Star (individual) members are contacted by direct mail or by membership offerings distributed through employee associations and other
entities. After a membership base is established in an area, most new memberships result from word-of-mouth advertising, follow-up messages distributed through employee groups and ongoing direct solicitations to prospective members.      Our warehouses generally operate on a seven-day, 69-hour week, open weekdays between 10:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m., with earlier closing hours on
the weekend. Gasoline operations generally have extended hours. Because the hours of operation are shorter than those of traditional retailers, discount retailers and supermarkets, and due to other efficiencies inherent in a warehouse-type
operation, labor costs are lower relative to the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales floor and displayed on pallets containing large quantities of each item, thereby reducing labor required for handling and
stocking.      Our merchandising strategy is to provide our members with a broad range of high quality merchandise at prices consistently
lower than they can obtain elsewhere. We seek to limit specific items in each product line to fast-selling models, sizes and colors. Therefore, we carry an average of approximately 3,800 active stock keeping units (SKUs) per warehouse in our core
warehouse business, as opposed to 45,000 to 140,000 SKUs or more at discount retailers, supermarkets, and supercenters. Many consumable products are offered for sale in case, carton, or multiple-pack quantities only.      In keeping with our policy of member satisfaction, we generally accept returns of merchandise. On certain electronic items, we have a 90-day return
policy in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom and provide, free of charge, technical support services, as well as an extended warranty.      The following table indicates the approximate percentage of net sales accounted for by major category of items:       

2009   

2008   

2007   

Sundries  (including candy, snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages and cleaning and institutional
supplies)   
      
  23  
  %   
     
  22  
  %   
     
  23  
  %    
 
     Hardlines  (including major appliances, electronics, health and beauty aids, hardware, office supplies, garden and patio, sporting
goods, furniture, and automotive supplies)   
      
  19  
  %   
     
  19  
  %   
     
  21  
  %    
 
     Food  (including dry and institutionally packaged foods)   
      
  21  
  %   
     
  20  
  %   
     
  19  
  %    
 
     Softlines  (including apparel, domestics, jewelry, housewares, media, home furnishings, cameras and small appliances)   

10  
  %   
     
  10  
  %   
     
  11  
  %    
 
     Fresh Food  (including meat, bakery, deli and produce)   
      
  12  
  %   
     
  12  
  %   
     
  12  
  %    
 
     Ancillary and Other  (including gas stations, pharmacy, food court, optical, one-hour photo, hearing aid and travel)   
      
  15  
  %   
     
  17  
  %   
     
  14  
  %    
       
   4   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)          
   Ancillary businesses within or next to our warehouses provide expanded products and services and
encourage members to shop more frequently. The following table indicates the number of ancillary businesses in operation at fiscal year end:       
    Costco Mexico, our 50%-owned joint venture, operated 32 warehouses, under our oversight, at
August 30, 2009. The Costco Mexico warehouses are not included in the table above as Costco Mexico is accounted for using the equity method of accounting for investments.      Our electronic commerce businesses, costco.com in the U.S. and costco.ca in Canada, provide our members additional products generally not found in our warehouses, in addition to services such
as digital photo processing, pharmacy, travel, and membership services.      Our warehouses accept cash, checks, certain debit cards,
American Express and a private label Costco credit card. Losses associated with dishonored checks have been minimal, as members who have issued dishonored checks are identified and prevented from making payments at the point of sale until
restitution is made.      We have direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand-name merchandise. We do not obtain a
significant portion of merchandise from any one supplier. We have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of merchandise, and believe that if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would be able
to obtain alternative sources without substantial disruption of our business. We also purchase selected private label merchandise, as long as quality and customer demand are comparable and the value to our members is greater as compared to name
brand items.      Certain financial information for our segments and geographic areas is included in Note 12 to the accompanying
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.      We report on a 52/53-week fiscal year, consisting of thirteen
four-week periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first three quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53-week year). There is no
material seasonal impact on our operations, except an increased level of net sales and earnings during the winter holiday season. References to 2009, 2008, and 2007 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended August 30, 2009, August 31,
2008, and September 2, 2007, respectively.       Membership Policy       Our membership format is designed to reinforce customer loyalty and provide a continuing source of membership fee revenue, which allows us to offer lower prices. Members can utilize their memberships
        
   5   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)          
   
at any Costco warehouse location in any country. We have two primary types of members: Business and Gold Star (individual). We continue to experience strong member renewal rates, currently at
87%. Businesses, including individuals with a business license, retail sales license or other evidence of business existence, may become Business members. Business members generally pay an annual membership fee of $50 for the primary and spouse
membership card, with add-on membership cards available for an annual fee of $40 (including a free spouse card). Many of our business members also shop at Costco for their personal needs. Individual memberships (Gold Star memberships) are available
to individuals who do not qualify for a Business membership, for an annual fee of $50, which includes a spouse card.      Our membership
base was made up of the following (in thousands):       
    These numbers exclude approximately 2,800, 2,800, and 2,700 cardholders of Costco Mexico at the
end of 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.      Executive membership is available to all members in the U.S., Canada, and United Kingdom for
an annual fee of approximately $100. The program offers additional savings and benefits on various business and consumer services offered by Costco, such as merchant credit-card processing, auto and home insurance, business telephone service, and
check printing services. The services are generally provided by third-parties and vary by country and state. In addition, Executive members qualify for a 2% annual reward (which can be redeemed at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately
$500 per year, on all qualified purchases made at Costco. At the end of 2009, 2008, and 2007, Executive members represented 29%, 26%, and 23%, respectively of our primary membership base. Executive members spend more than other members, and the
percentage of our net sales attributable to these members continues to increase. In 2008, Costco Mexico launched an Executive Membership program similar to the program in the U.S. and Canada.       Labor       Our employee count approximated:
      
    These numbers exclude approximately 9,000 individuals who were employed by Costco Mexico at the
end of 2009, 2008 and 2007. Approximately 13,500 hourly employees in certain of our locations (all former Price Company locations) in five states are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. All remaining employees are non-union.
We consider our employee relations to be very good.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)          
    Competition       Our industry is highly competitive, based on factors such as price, merchandise quality and selection, warehouse location and member service. Over 1,200 warehouse club locations exist across the U.S. and Canada,
including our 483 North American warehouses, and every major metropolitan area has several club operations. In addition to other membership warehouse operators such as Wal-Mart s Sam s Club and BJ s Wholesale Club, we compete with a
wide range of national and regional retailers and wholesalers, including supermarkets, supercenters, general merchandise chains, specialty chains, gasoline stations, as well as electronic commerce businesses, such as Amazon. Wal-Mart, Target and
Kohl s are significant general merchandise retail competitors. We also compete with low-cost operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise, such as Lowe s, Home Depot, Office Depot, PetSmart, Staples, Trader
Joe s, Whole Foods, Best Buy and Barnes   Noble. Our international operations face similar competitors.       Regulation       Certain state laws require that we apply minimum markups to our selling prices for specific goods, such as tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, and
gasoline. While compliance with such laws may cause us to charge higher prices, other retailers are also typically governed by the same restrictions, and we believe that compliance with such laws does not have a material adverse effect on our
operations.      Certain states, counties, and municipalities have enacted or proposed laws and regulations that would prevent or restrict
the operations or expansion plans of certain large retailers and warehouse clubs, including us, within their jurisdictions. We believe that, if enacted, such laws and regulations could have a material adverse affect on our operations.       Intellectual Property       We
believe that our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, proprietary processes, trade secrets, patents, trade dress and similar intellectual property add significant value to our business and are important factors in our success. We have invested
significantly in the development and protection of our well-recognized brands including Costco Wholesale and our premium private label brand, Kirkland Signature     . Kirkland Signature products are premium products offered to our members at prices that are generally lower than those for national brand products. Kirkland Signature
products allow us to ensure our quality standards are met, while minimizing costs and differentiating our merchandise offerings from other retailers, and we generally earn higher margins on sales of Kirkland products. We expect that our private
label items will increase their share of our sales in the future. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights.
Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we operate.       Available Information       Our internet website is www.costco.com. We make available through the Investor Relations section of that site, free of charge, our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with, or furnishing such documents to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)          
    Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following is a list of the names, ages and positions of the executive officers of the Company.       

Name    
      
     Position With Company    
      
   Executive     Officer     Since   
      
   Age    
 
    James D. Sinegal   
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Sinegal is a co-founder of the Company and has been a director since its inception.  
      
  1983  
      
  73   

Jeffrey H. Brotman   
      
  Chairman of the Board. Mr. Brotman is a co-founder of the Company and has been a director since its inception.  
      
  1983  
      
  67   

Richard D. DiCerchio   
      
  Sr. Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Global Operations, Distribution and Construction, Manufacturing and Ancillary Businesses. Mr. DiCerchio has been a Senior Executive
Vice President of the Company since 1997 and has been a director since 1986.  
      
  1986  
      
  66   

Richard A. Galanti   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Galanti has been a director of the Company since January 1995.  
      
  1993  
      
  53   

W. Craig Jelinek   
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising. Mr. Jelinek has been Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising since February 2004.  
      
  1995  
      
  57   

Paul G. Moulton   
      
  Executive Vice President, Real Estate Development.  
      
  2001  
      
  58   

Joseph P. Portera   
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Eastern and Canadian Divisions.  
      
  1994  
      
  57   

Douglas W. Schutt   
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Northern and Midwest Division. Mr. Schutt has been Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Northern and Midwest
Division, since February 2004.  
      
  2004  
      
  50   

Thomas K. Walker   
      
  Executive Vice President, Construction, Distribution and Traffic. Mr. Walker has been Executive Vice President, Construction, Distribution and Traffic since February 2004.  
      
  2004  
      
  69   

Dennis R. Zook   
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Southwest and Mexico Divisions.  
      
  1993  
      
  60   
    All executive officers have 25 or more years of service with the Company, with the exception of
Mr. Moulton and Mr. Schutt, each of whom has 24 years of service.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)          
   The Company has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers pursuant to
Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Copies of the code are available free of charge by writing to Secretary, Costco Wholesale Corporation, 999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027.         Item 1A Risk Factors       The risks described below could
materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from results predicted by our forward-looking
statements. Those statements may relate to such matters as sales growth, increases in comparable store sales, impact of cannibalization, price changes, earnings performance, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, warehouse openings
and closures, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, future financial reporting, financing, margins, return on invested capital, strategic direction, expense control, membership renewal rates, shopping frequency, litigation impact and
the demand for our products and services. You should read these risk factors in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report and our consolidated financial
statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report. There may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not presently perceive them to be material, that could cause results
to differ materially from our expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. You are advised to review any further disclosures we make on related
subjects in our periodic filings with the SEC.       We face strong competition from other retailers and warehouse club operators, which could negatively
affect our financial performance.       The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for members, employees, warehouse sites,
products and services and in other important respects with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in foreign countries. We compete with other warehouse club operators, discount retailers, supermarkets,
supercenter stores, retail and wholesale grocers, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and
warehouse club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise pricing, selection and availability, services, location, convenience, store hours, and price. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in
the retail markets could negatively affect our financial performance. Some competitors may have greater financial resources, better access to merchandise, and/or greater market penetration than we do.       General economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.       Higher interest rates, energy costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, healthcare costs, consumer debt levels, unsettled financial markets, weaknesses
in housing and real estate markets, reduced consumer confidence, changes related to government fiscal and tax policies and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services or require a change in the mix of products
we sell. Prices of certain commodity products, including gasoline and other food products, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition,
market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may affect our sales and profit margins. These factors can also increase our merchandise costs and/or selling, general and
administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and results. General economic conditions can also be affected by the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism, or other significant national or international events.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
    Our growth strategy includes expanding our business, both in existing markets and in new markets.
      Our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire property, and build or lease new warehouses. We compete with
other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouses, as well as local community actions opposed to the location of our warehouses at specific sites
and the adoption of local laws restricting our operations and environmental regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and increase the cost of constructing, leasing and operating our warehouses. We also may have difficulty
negotiating leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms. Failure to manage these and other similar factors effectively will affect our ability to timely build or lease new warehouses, which may have a material adverse affect on our
future growth and profitability.      We seek to expand our business in existing markets in order to attain a greater overall market share.
Because our warehouses typically draw members from their local areas, a new warehouse may draw members away from our nearby existing warehouses and may adversely affect comparable warehouse sales performance and member traffic at those existing
warehouses.      We also intend to open warehouses in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include difficulties in
attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with us, attracting members of other wholesale club operators currently operating in the new market, our lack of familiarity with local member preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. In
addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. In new markets, we cannot ensure that our new warehouses will be profitably deployed; as a
result, our future profitability may be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected.       We are highly dependent on the financial performance of
our United States and Canada operations.       Our financial and operational performance is highly dependent on our United States and
Canada operations, which comprised 93% of consolidated net sales in 2009 and 2008, and 92% of operating income in 2009 and 2008. Within the United States, we are highly dependent on our California operations, which comprised 27% of consolidated net
sales in 2009 and 2008. Our California market in general, has a larger percentage of higher volume warehouses as compared to our other markets. As a result, the operating income from our California operations is generally higher as a percentage of
total operating income than other regions. Any substantial slowing or sustained decline in these operations could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Declines in financial performance of our United States operations,
particularly in California, and our Canada operations could arise from, among other things: failing to meet targets for warehouse openings; declines in actual or estimated comparable warehouse sales growth rates and expectations; negative trends in
operating expenses, including increased labor, healthcare and energy costs; cannibalizing existing locations with new warehouses; shifts in sales mix toward lower gross margin products; changes or uncertainties in economic conditions in our markets;
and failing consistently to provide high quality products and innovative new products to retain our existing member base and attract new members.       We
depend on vendors to supply us with quality merchandise at the right prices in a timely manner.       We depend heavily on our ability to
purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We have no assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to
us. Member demands may lead to out-of-stock positions of our merchandise, leading to loss of sales and profits.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
   We purchase our merchandise from numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and importers and
have thousands of vendor relationships. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of key vendors could negatively affect us. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from
alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive than those from existing vendors.      Our suppliers are subject
to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, supply constraints, and general economic and political conditions, that could limit their ability to timely provide us with
acceptable merchandise. For these or other reasons, one or more of our suppliers might not adhere to our quality control, legal or regulatory standards. These deficiencies may delay or preclude delivery of merchandise to us and might not be
identified before we sell such merchandise to our members. This failure could lead to litigation and recalls, which could damage our reputation and our brands, increase our costs, and otherwise hurt our business.      In addition, the United States  foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, security and safety regulations, trade
sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.       We depend on our depot operations to effectively and efficiently supply product to our warehouses.       We depend on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, primarily through our depots. Although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient,
unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fires, hurricanes or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our warehouses, which could adversely affect sales and the
satisfaction of our members.       We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship
with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.       It is difficult to consistently and successfully
predict the products and services our members will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to
changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and
adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which could result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on margins and operating income.       Our failure to maintain positive membership loyalty and brand recognition could adversely affect our financial results.       Damage to our brands or reputation may negatively impact comparable warehouse sales, lower employee morale and productivity, diminish member trust, and
reduce member renewal rates and, accordingly, membership fee revenues, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
    Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to
complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results.       Generally accepted accounting principles and related
accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, sales returns reserves, impairment of long-lived
assets and warehouse closing costs, inventories, self-insurance, income taxes, unclaimed property laws and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or
their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Provisions for losses related to self-insured risks are generally based
upon independent actuarially determined estimates. The assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses can be highly unpredictable, which can affect the liability recorded for such claims. For example, variability in inflation
rates of health care costs inherent in these claims can affect the amounts realized. Similarly, changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well as a change in the nature and method of how claims are settled can impact ultimate costs. Although
our estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate significant changes in historical trends for these variables, any changes could have a considerable effect upon future claim costs and currently recorded liabilities and could materially impact
our consolidated financial statements.       Changes in Tax Rates       We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operate. As the tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we
operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Additionally, any change in the enacted tax rates, any adverse outcome in connection with any income tax audits in any jurisdiction, or any change in the pronouncements
relating to accounting for income taxes may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operation, or cash flows.       Failure
of our internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely.       Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for
external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes: maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that our receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and
providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting is not intended to and cannot provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over
financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
    Our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting,
regulatory, political and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.       Our international operations could form a larger portion of our business in future years. Future operating results internationally could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many beyond our control.
These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, regulatory constraints, currency regulations and exchange rates, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Other factors that may
impact international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws and regulations of foreign governments and the United States (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act),
agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have been historically less stable than the United States. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the
costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future
costs or on future cash flows from our international operations.       Market expectations for our financial performance is high.       We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in
meeting these expectations, including our comparable warehouse sales growth rates, earnings and earnings per share or new warehouse openings, could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or share repurchase
policies.       We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our
primary and back-up systems could harm our business.       Although we have independent, redundant, and primary and secondary computer
systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is important that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or
interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and errors by our employees. If our
computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our
computer systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The costs, potential problems, and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our
operations in the short term. These initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or provide them in a delayed or more costly manner.       Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could unfavorably affect our financial performance.       Natural disasters,
such as hurricanes or earthquakes, particularly in California or in Washington state, where our centralized operating systems and administrative personnel are located, could unfavorably affect our operations and financial performance. Such events
could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of one or more warehouses or depots, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products
from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods
        
   13   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
   
from overseas, delays in the delivery of goods to our depots or warehouses within a country in which we operate and the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our warehouses.
Public health issues, such as a potential H1N1 flu pandemic (Swine flu), whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or have an adverse impact on consumer spending
and confidence levels. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These events could also reduce demand for
our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from suppliers.       We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, regional,
local and international laws, and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, and disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, and other environmental matters.       Any failure to comply with these laws could result in costs to satisfy environmental compliance, remediation or compensatory requirements, or the
imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts that could adversely affect our operations.       We are
involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, and while we cannot predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes may unfavorably affect our operations or increase our costs.
      We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, including grand jury investigations, other government investigations,
consumer, employment, tort and other litigation (see discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal
proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by governmental authorities. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from
taking actions which could unfavorably affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management s
attention and resources. Our business requires compliance with a great variety of laws and regulations. Failure to achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings, and lead to damage awards, fines and penalties.       We are subject to the risk of product liability claims.       If our merchandise offerings, including food and prepared food products for human consumption, drugs and childrens  products, do not meet applicable safely standards or our members  expectations regarding safety, we could
experience lost sales, increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. The sale of these items involves the risk of injury to our members. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or
spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation phases. All of our vendors must comply with applicable product
safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and work to comply in all material respects with applicable laws and
regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims, lawsuits, or government investigations relating to such matters, resulting in costly
product recalls and other liabilities. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with
existing and potential members and our corporate and brand image and these effects could be long term.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
    Our success depends, in part on the continued contributions of management and on our ability to attract, train
and retain highly qualified employees.       Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of members of our
senior management and other key operations, merchandising and administrative personnel, and the loss of any such person(s) could have a material adverse effect. Other than an annual agreement with our President and CEO, Mr. Sinegal, we have no
employment agreements with our officers. We must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of highly qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors,
including prevailing wage rates and healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will
be able to attract or retain highly qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company does not maintain key man insurance.
      If we do not maintain the privacy and security of member-related information, we could damage our reputation with members, incur substantial
additional costs and become subject to litigation.       We receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our members.
In addition, our online operations at www.costco.com and www.costco.ca depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems or
those of other business partners that results in our members  personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our members and others, as well as our operations, results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems
and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.      Additionally, the use of individually
identifiable data by our business and our business associates is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due
to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged,
possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal risk as a result of non-compliance.         Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments       None.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

      Item 2 Properties        Warehouse Properties       At
August 30, 2009, we operated 527 membership warehouses:       NUMBER OF WAREHOUSES        

(1)  
    75 of the 112 leases are land-leases only, where Costco owns the building.         The following schedule shows warehouse openings (net of closings) by region for the past five fiscal years and expected warehouse openings (net of closings) through December 31, 2009:
      
    The 32 warehouses operated by Costco Mexico, under our oversight, at the end of 2009 are not
included in the above tables. We opened one warehouse in Mexico in 2009.      At the end of 2009, our warehouses contained approximately
75.2 million square feet of operating floor space: 58.6 million in the United States, 10.5 million in Canada and 6.1 million in other international locations, excluding Mexico.      Our executive offices are located in Issaquah, Washington and occupy approximately 445,000 square feet. We operated eight regional offices in the
United States, two regional offices in Canada and five regional offices internationally at the end of 2009, containing approximately 334,000 square feet. Additionally, we operate regional cross-docking facilities (depots) for the consolidation and
distribution of most shipments to the warehouses, and various processing, packaging, and other facilities to support ancillary and other businesses. At the end of 2009, we operated eleven depots in the United States, four in Canada and three
internationally, excluding Mexico, consisting of approximately 7.3 million square feet.         Item 3 Legal
Proceedings       See discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this
Report.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

      Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       Our annual meeting is scheduled for 4:00 p.m. on January 28, 2010, at the Meydenbauer Center in Bellevue, Washington. Matters to be voted on will
be included in our proxy statement to be filed with the SEC and distributed prior to the meeting.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

      PART II          Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities        Market Information and Dividend Policy       Our
common stock is traded on the National Market tier of The NASDAQ Global Select Market ( NASDAQ ) under the symbol  COST.  On October 2, 2009 we had 8,459 stockholders of record.      The following table shows the quarterly high and low closing sale prices as reported by NASDAQ for each quarter during the last two fiscal years and
the quarterly cash dividend declared per share of our common stock during the periods indicated.       
    Payment of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. Factors
considered in determining the size of the dividends are our profitability and expected capital needs. Subject to these qualifications, we presently expect to continue to pay dividends on a quarterly basis.       Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (dollars in millions)       There was no common stock repurchase program activity for the fourth quarter of 2009.      Our stock
repurchase program is conducted under authorizations made by our Board of Directors: $300 and $1,000 were authorized in September 2007 and November 2007, which expire in August 2010 and November 2010, respectively; and $1,000 authorized in July
2008, which expires in July 2011. The maximum remaining dollar value of shares that may be purchased under the stock repurchase program is $2,002.       Equity Compensation Plans       Information related to our equity compensation plans is incorporated herein by reference to
the Proxy Statement. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the end of our fiscal year.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6 Selected Financial Data       The following table sets forth certain information concerning our consolidated financial condition, operating results, and key operating metrics for
the dates and periods indicated. This information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in Item 7 and our consolidated financial statements
included in Item 8.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA        (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse data)        

(1)  
    Certain reclassifications have been made to prior years to conform to the presentation adopted in the current year.          

(2)  
    Includes net sales at warehouses open greater than one year, including relocated locations.          

(3)  
    Excludes warehouses operated in Mexico through a 50% owned joint venture.          

(4)  
    Includes relocations and the closure in July 2009 of two Costco Home locations.            
   19   

Table of Contents  

    I  tem 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)       OVERVIEW       Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to August 31. References to 2009, 2008, and 2007 relate to the 52-week years ended August 30,
2009, August 31, 2008, and September 2, 2007 respectively.      Key items for 2009 included:       

Net sales decreased 1.5% from the prior year to $69,889, attributable to a 4% decrease in comparable sales (sales in warehouses open for at least one year,
including relocated warehouses), partially offset by the opening of 15 new warehouses (19 opened, two closed due to relocation, and the closure of our two Costco Home locations) in 2009. Net sales were significantly impacted by the year-over-year
decrease in the price of gasoline and by certain foreign exchange rates;          

Membership fees increased 1.8%, to $1,533, primarily due to new membership sign-ups at warehouses opened in 2009, the continued benefit of membership sign-ups
at warehouses opened in 2008, and increased penetration of our higher-fee Executive Membership program. Membership fees were negatively impacted by a $27 charge related to a proposed litigation settlement concerning our membership renewal policy;

Gross margin (net sales less merchandise costs) as a percentage of net sales increased 28 basis points over the prior year,          

Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 58 basis points over the prior year;

The Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $0.16 to $0.18 per share; and          
    As previously reported, 2007 was impacted by the following unusual items, the effects of which are reflected in the table below:       

Sales returns reserve: We revised our estimate of our sales returns reserve to include a longer timeframe for returns, as well as a lower realization rate on
certain returned items.          

Employee tax consequences on stock options: We made payments to employees in connection with changes in exercise prices designed to avoid adverse tax
consequences for employees and recorded a charge for the estimated amount to remedy adverse tax consequences related to stock options held and previously exercised by employees outside the United States.          

Excise tax refund: We received a refund related to 2002 through 2006, as a result of a settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service relating to excise
taxes previously paid.          

Deferred membership: We analyzed the timing of recognition of membership fees, resulting in a reduction to membership fee revenue and a corresponding increase
to deferred membership fees on our consolidated balance sheet.            
   20   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   We believe disclosing the effects of these items helps provide a meaningful comparison of our
current year results to prior years. The impact of each of these items noted above is presented below:       

(1)  
    Net sales less merchandise costs.          Results of Operations         Net Sales         
     2009 vs. 2008        Net Sales       Our 2009 sales results, particularly in hardlines and softlines, were negatively impacted by general economic
conditions, and we believe that those conditions may continue to have a significant adverse impact on spending by our members. We believe, however, that due to the nature of our business model, we are better positioned than many retailers to compete
in such an environment.      Net sales decreased 1.5% during 2009 compared to 2008. The $1,088 decrease was comprised of a $2,590 decrease
in comparable sales, partially offset by an increase of $1,502 primarily from sales at new warehouses opened during 2009 and 2008. Our sales were also impacted by a lower number of warehouse openings year-over-year.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   Foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Korea, weakened against the
U.S. dollar, which negatively impacted net sales during 2009 by approximately $2,421 (341 basis points). Net sales were also negatively impacted by gasoline price deflation during 2009 by approximately $2,164 (305 basis points), which resulted from
a 30% decline in the average sales price per gallon.       Comparable Sales         Comparable sales decreased 4% in 2009. Weakening foreign currencies negatively impacted comparable sales by approximately $2,339 (333 basis points) in 2009. Gasoline price deflation
negatively impacted comparable sales results by approximately $2,113 (298 basis points) during 2009. Comparable sales were negatively impacted by a decline in the average amount spent (after adjustment for gasoline price deflation and measured in
local currencies), partially offset by an increase in shopping frequency. Reported comparable sales growth includes the negative impact of cannibalization   (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). We believe the
decline is a function of adverse economic conditions generally rather that a fundamental change in our members  relationship to the company.         2008 vs. 2007       Net sales increased 12.5% to $70,977 in 2008, from $63,088 in 2007. Excluding the impact of the change in
the estimated sales returns reserve in 2007, net sales, as adjusted, increased $7,437, or 11.7% in 2008 as compared to the previous year. The $7,437 increase in adjusted net sales is comprised of $5,153 from the increase in comparable warehouse
sales and $2,284 primarily from sales at new warehouses opened during 2008 and 2007. In the third quarter of 2007, we introduced a 90-day return policy in the United States on certain electronic items.      Significantly stronger foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, positively impacted adjusted net sales by approximately $1,134, or 180 basis
points. Gasoline sales also contributed to the $7,437 adjusted net sales growth by approximately $2,236, with approximately $1,489 related to the increase in gasoline sales prices. Additionally, we experienced price increases in certain foods and
fresh foods items that positively impacted net sales, which were partially offset by price decreases in certain items within our hardlines category.      Most of the comparable sales growth was derived from increased amounts spent by members, with a smaller contribution from increases in shopping frequency. Gasoline sales positively impacted comparable warehouse
sales growth by approximately $1,938. Comparable warehouse sales growth excluding gasoline would have been lower by approximately 267 basis points. Significantly stronger foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, positively impacted comparable
sales by approximately $1,070, or 170 basis points. Reported comparable sales growth includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations).        Membership Fees         
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
    2009 vs. 2008       Membership fees increased 1.8% in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to membership sign-ups at the 15 new warehouses opened in 2009 (19 opened, two closed due to relocations, and two closed Costco Home
locations), the continued benefit of membership sign-ups at warehouses opened in 2008, and increased penetration of our higher-fee Executive Membership program. This increase was negatively impacted by a charge of $27 related to a proposed
litigation settlement concerning our membership renewal policy and the weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Korea, which negatively impacted membership fees during 2009 by
approximately $50. Membership fees were also impacted by a lower number of warehouse openings year-over-year. Our member renewal rate, currently at 87% is consistent with recent years.      As previously disclosed, effective with renewals occurring on and after March 1, 2009, we changed an element of our membership renewal policy. Memberships renewed within two months after
expiration of the current membership year are extended for twelve months from the expiration date. (Under the previous policy, renewals within six months of the expiration date were extended for twelve months from the expiration date.) Memberships
renewed more than two months after such expiration date are extended for twelve months from the renewal date. Although this change will have the effect of deferring recognition of certain membership fees paid by late-renewing members, the effect is
not expected to be material.       2008 vs. 2007       Membership fees increased 14.7% to $1,506, or 2.12% of net sales in 2008, from $1,313, or 2.08% of net sales in 2007. Excluding the adjustment to deferred membership fees in 2007, adjusted membership fees increased
10.0% from 2007. The increase was primarily due to: new membership sign-ups at the 24 new warehouses opened (34 opened and 10 closed due to relocations); increased penetration of the higher-fee Executive Membership program; and the five dollar
increase in our annual membership fee in the second half of 2006 for non-Executive members. Our member renewal rate at the end of 2008 was 87%.        Gross Margin         
     2009 vs. 2008       Gross margin, as a percent of net sales, increased 28 basis points compared to 2008. This increase was primarily related to a net 18 basis point increase in our core merchandise departments, primarily in food and
sundries, partially offset by a decrease in softlines, and a net seven basis point increase from our warehouse ancillary businesses, primarily our gasoline and pharmacy departments. The majority of this gross margin improvement was due to our lower
margin gas business having lower sales penetration, due to the decline in the average selling price per gallon. Increased sales penetration of the Executive Membership two-percent reward program negatively affected gross margin by six basis
        
   23   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
points. In addition, gross margin was favorably impacted by nine basis points due to reversing the $32 LIFO reserve established in the prior year as we experienced net deflation, year-over-year,
in the cost of our merchandise inventories.      Foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom and Korea, weakened against
the U.S. dollar, which negatively impacted gross margin for 2009 by approximately $258.       2008 vs. 2007       Gross margin, as a percent of net sales, increased one basis point compared to 2007. Excluding the unusual items affecting net sales and gross margin
in 2007, adjusted gross margin as a percent of adjusted net sales decreased five basis points in 2008 as compared to 2007. This decrease was largely due to a net 12 basis point decrease in our warehouse ancillary businesses, particularly in one-hour
photo, tire shop and food services, partially offset by an increase in our gasoline business; a $32, or five basis point LIFO charge, resulting from price increases in certain food items and gasoline; and a three basis point decrease resulting from
the increased penetration of the Executive Membership two-percent reward program and increased spending by Executive members. These decreases were partially offset by a net 15 basis point increase from our merchandise departments, particularly fresh
foods, food and sundries, Costco Online and our international operations, partially offset by a decrease in softlines.        Selling, General and
Administrative Expenses         
     2009 vs. 2008       SG A expenses, as a percent of net sales, increased 58 basis points compared to 2008. Increased warehouse operating and central administrative costs, as a percent of net sales, negatively impacted SG A by
approximately 56 basis points, resulting primarily from lower sales levels and higher employee health care costs. Higher stock-based compensation expense had a negative impact of one basis point. In addition, we recorded an adjustment to the net
realizable value of the cash surrender value of employee life insurance contracts, which negatively impacted SG A, as a percent of net sales, by two basis points. The net realizable value of the insurance contracts is largely based on changes in
investment assets underlying the policies and is subject to conditions generally affecting equity and debt markets. In 2008, we recorded a $16 reserve in connection with a legal settlement, which positively impacted the comparison to current
year s SG A expense, as a percent of net sales, by two basis points.      SG A expenses, as a percent of net sales, for 2009
were adversely impacted by the decrease in the price of gasoline, as it produced a decline in sales dollars without a comparative reduction in labor or other administrative costs. Foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom, and
Korea, weakened against the U.S. dollar, which positively impacted SG A for 2009 by approximately $217.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
    2008 vs. 2007       SG A expenses, as a percent of net sales, decreased 14 basis points compared to 2007. Excluding the unusual items affecting net sales and SG A expenses in 2007, adjusted SG A as a percentage of adjusted
net sales was comparable to 2007. Warehouse operating and central administrative costs positively impacted adjusted SG A comparisons, on a net basis, by approximately seven basis points, primarily due to decreased payroll and benefits costs as a
percent of adjusted net sales. Stock-based compensation expense negatively impacted adjusted SG A comparisons by three basis points, primarily due to a higher closing stock price on the date that our October 2007 RSU grant was valued as compared
to previous grants. Additionally, in 2008, we recorded a $16 reserve in connection with a litigation settlement and accrued approximately $9 for compensation adjustments we made to employees enrolled in our medical and dental plans related to a
decision to share a portion of the health plan s savings that we achieved. These two items negatively impacted adjusted SG A comparisons by four basis points.        Preopening Expenses         
    Preopening expenses include costs incurred for startup operations related to new warehouses and
the expansion of ancillary operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses can vary due to the timing of the opening relative to our year-end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, whether the opening is in an existing, new, or
international market. The decline in 2009 is primarily attributable to fewer warehouse openings.        Provision for Impaired Assets and Closing Costs,
Net         
    This provision primarily includes costs related to impairment of long-lived assets; future
lease obligations of warehouses that have been closed or relocated to new facilities; accelerated depreciation, based on the shortened useful life through the expected closing date, on buildings to be demolished or sold and that are not otherwise
impaired; and losses or gains resulting from the sale of real property, largely comprised of former warehouse locations.       2009 vs. 2008
      The net provision for impaired assets and closing costs was a $17 in 2009, compared to a nominal amount in 2008. The provision in
2009 included charges of $9 for warehouse closing expenses, and impairment charges of $8, primarily related to the closing of our two Costco Home locations in July 2009.       
  
   25   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
    2008 vs. 2007       The net provision for impaired assets and closing costs was a nominal amount in 2008, compared to $14 in 2007. The provision in 2008 included charges of $9 for warehouse closing expenses, and impairment charges of
$10, primarily related to a location in Michigan that was demolished and rebuilt. These charges were offset by $19 of net gain on the sale of real property, largely former warehouse locations.      At the end of both 2009 and 2008, the reserve for warehouse closing costs was $5 and primarily related to future lease obligations.        Interest Expense         
     2009 vs. 2008       Interest expense primarily relates to our $900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes (2007 Senior Notes) issued in 2007. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to a decrease in capitalized interest
related to reduced new warehouse and remodel construction activity year-over-year.       2008 vs. 2007       The increase in interest expense resulted primarily from the issuance of our 2007 Senior Notes in February 2007, partially offset by lower interest
expense resulting from the repayment in March 2007 of the $300 5.5% Senior Notes.        Interest Income and Other         
     2009 vs. 2008       The decrease in interest income was largely due to lower interest rates, year-over-year, on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances resulting from a change in policy to invest primarily in
U.S. government and agency securities, which earn a lower interest rate. In addition, we recognized $12 of other-than-temporary impairment losses on certain securities within our investment portfolio in 2009 compared to an impairment loss of $5 in
2008. See further discussion in Liquidity and Capital Resources. The decrease in the earnings of affiliates is primarily attributable to our investment in Costco Mexico (a 50%-owned joint venture). Costco Mexico s earnings were lower in 2009,
primarily due to the peso weakening against the U.S. dollar. The decrease in minority interest and other is primarily due to a negative $5 mark-to-market charge in 2009, compared to a $6 gain in 2008, related to our forward foreign exchange
contracts. See the Derivatives section for more information.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
    2008 vs. 2007       The decrease in interest income was largely due to lower interest rates, year-over-year, on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances. In addition, we recognized $5 of other-than-temporary
impairment losses on certain securities within our investment portfolio. The increase in the earnings of affiliates is primarily attributable to our investment in Costco Mexico (a 50%-owned joint venture).        Provision for Income Taxes         
    The lower tax rate in 2008 was primarily attributable to discrete benefits
recognized during the year.        Net Income         
     2009 vs. 2008       Net income for 2009 decreased to $1,086, or $2.47 per diluted share, from $1,283, or $2.89 per diluted share, during 2008, representing a 15% decrease in diluted net income per share. As previously discussed,
foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom and Korea, weakened against the U.S. dollar, which negatively impacted net income for 2009 by approximately $83 after-tax, or $0.19 per diluted share. Additionally, net income for 2009
was negatively impacted by a $34 pre-tax charge, or approximately $0.05 per diluted share, related to a proposed litigation settlement concerning our membership renewal policy, as well as a $23 pre-tax charge, or approximately $0.03 per diluted
share, for an adjustment to the net realizable value of the cash surrender value of employee life insurance contracts. Net income for 2009 was positively impacted by a $32 pre-tax, or $0.05 per diluted share, benefit due to the reversal of the LIFO
reserve established in 2008.       2008 vs. 2007       Net income for 2008 increased to $1,283, or $2.89 per diluted share, from $1,083, or $2.37 per diluted share, during 2007. The unusual items previously discussed totaled $119, net of tax, or $0.26 per diluted share
in 2007. Exclusive of these items, earnings in 2007 were $2.63 per diluted share. Net income per diluted share in 2008 represents an increase of 10% over this adjusted amount. During 2008, we repurchased and retired 13,812,000 shares of common
stock, favorably impacting earnings per diluted share by approximately $0.03.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES       The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets at the end of 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions, except per share data):       
    Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations and
existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances, which were $3,727 and $3,275 at the end of 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of these balances, approximately $758 and $788 at the end of 2009 and 2008, respectively, represented debit
and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales in the week prior to the end of the fiscal year.      Net cash provided by operating
activities totaled $2,092 in 2009 compared to $2,206 in 2008, a decrease of approximately $114. This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in net income of $197, partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization and
stock-based compensation of $90.      Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,101 in 2009 compared to $1,717 in 2008, a decrease of
approximately $616. The decrease in investing activities relates primarily to a $349 decrease in cash used for additions to property and equipment related to warehouse expansion and remodel projects and a prior year reclassification of $371 of cash
and cash equivalents to short-term investments and other assets on our consolidated balance sheets, explained further below. These activities were partially offset by a decrease in cash provided by the net investment in short-term investments of $62
as a result of less cash needed to fund our common stock repurchase activity as well as a decrease in cash proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $41.      In 2008, one of our enhanced money fund investments, Columbia Strategic Cash Portfolio Fund (Columbia), ceased accepting cash redemption requests and changed to a floating net asset value. In light of the
restricted liquidity, we elected to receive a pro-rata allocation of the underlying securities in a separately managed account. We assessed the fair value of these securities through market quotations and review of current investment ratings, as
available, coupled with an evaluation of the liquidation value of each investment and its current performance in meeting scheduled payments of principal and interest. During 2009 and 2008, we recognized $12 and $5, respectively, of
other-than-temporary impairment losses related to these securities. The losses are included in interest income and other in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. At August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, the balance of the
Columbia fund was $27 and $104, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets.      In 2008, two other enhanced money fund investments,
BlackRock Cash Strategies, LLC (BlackRock) and Merrill Lynch Capital Reserve Fund, LLC (Merrill Lynch), ceased accepting redemption requests and commenced liquidation. As of August 31, 2008, the balance of the BlackRock and Merrill Lynch funds
was $82 and $43, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets. During 2009, the remaining balances of these funds were liquidated.      During 2008, we reclassified $371 of these three funds from cash and cash equivalents to short-term investments and other assets. At August 30, 2009, $24 remained in short-term investments and $3
        
   28   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
remained in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets, reflecting the timing of the expected distributions. At August 31, 2008, $161 was in short-term investments and $68 in other
assets on the consolidated balance sheets.      The markets relating to these investments remain uncertain, and there may be further
declines in the value of these investments that may cause additional losses in future periods.      Net cash used in financing activities
totaled $439 in 2009 compared to $643 in 2008. The $204 decrease in net cash used in financing activities primarily resulted from a reduction in the cash used to repurchase common stock of $826, partially offset by a decrease in the net proceeds
from stock-based awards and the excess tax benefit on share-based awards of $276, a decrease in the net proceeds from short-term borrowings of $195 as well as a decrease in the cash provided by the issuance of long-term debt of $103.      The effect of exchange rate changes, reflected in the consolidated statement of cash flows, decreased cash by $14 in 2009, compared to a decrease of
$7 in 2008. This increase was due primarily to the significant weakening of the Canadian, Korean, and the United Kingdom currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar, during 2009.        Dividends        In April 2009, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend
from $0.16 to $0.18 per share or $0.72 on an annualized basis. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2009 totaled $0.68 per share. In 2008, we paid quarterly cash dividends totaling $0.61 per share.        Contractual Obligations        Our commitments
at year-end to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows, as of August 30, 2009:       

(1)  
    Includes open merchandise purchase orders.          

(2)  
    Includes contractual interest payments.          

(3)  
    Operating lease obligations exclude amounts commonly referred to as common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $163 to reflect
sub-lease income.          

(4)  
    The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing
for cancellation without significant penalty.            
   29   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          

(5)  
    Consists of $24 in asset retirement obligations, $9 in deferred compensation obligations and includes $14 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to
uncertain tax positions. Amount excludes $16 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments.           Expansion Plans        Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, building,
and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. Capital is also required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon
further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,300 during fiscal 2010 for real estate, construction, remodeling, and equipment for warehouses and related operations. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a
combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.      We plan to open
approximately 16 to 18 new warehouses in 2010, including one to two relocations of existing warehouses to larger and better located facilities.        Additional Equity Investments in Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures        Our investments in the Costco Mexico joint
venture and in other unconsolidated joint ventures that are less than majority owned are accounted for under the equity method. We did not make any capital contributions to our investment in Costco Mexico (a 50%-owned joint venture) in 2009, 2008,
or 2007.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
     Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs (all amounts stated in millions, in U.S. dollars)

(1)  
    The U.S. parent company, Costco Wholesale Corporation, guarantees this entity s credit facility.          

(2)  
    The letter of guarantee is fully cash-collateralized by the subsidiary.            
   31   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          

(1)  
    This entity s credit facility is guaranteed by the U.S. parent company, Costco Wholesale Corporation.          

(2)  
    The letter of guarantee is fully cash-collateralized by the United Kingdom subsidiary.          

(3)  
    The amount shown for short-term borrowings under this facility is net of a note issue discount, which is excluded from the available credit amount.
        Note: We have credit facilities (for commercial and standby letters of credit) totaling $116 and $239 as of
August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, respectively. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, totaled $83 and $116, respectively, including $62 and $69, respectively, in standby
letters of credit. For those entities with multi-purpose lines, any issuance of either letters of credit (standby and/or commercial) or short-term borrowings will result in a corresponding decrease in available credit.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
     Financing Activities        In July 2009, we entered into a capital lease for a new warehouse building location and recorded a liability in the amount of $72, representing the net present value of $150 in aggregate future minimum lease
payments at an imputed interest rate of 5.4%. This lease expires and becomes subject to a renewal clause in 2040. As of August 30, 2009, $71 is included in long-term debt and $1 in the current portion of long-term debt in our consolidated
balance sheets. We have other minor capital lease obligations that amounted to $5 at the end of 2009 and 2008.      In June 2008, our
wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten-year term loan in the amount of $32, with a variable rate of interest of Yen TIBOR (6-month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.95% and 1.24% at August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, respectively) on
the outstanding balance. The net proceeds were used to repay the 1.187% Promissory Notes due in July 2008 and for general corporate purposes. Interest is payable semi-annually in December and June and principal is due in June 2018.      In October 2007, our wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $69, bearing interest at
2.695%. Interest is payable semi-annually, and principal is due in October 2017. The proceeds were used to repay the 2.07% Promissory Notes in October 2007 and for general corporate purposes.      In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes due March 15, 2012 at a discount of $2 and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together, the
2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over
the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007
Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the
principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes.      In April 2003, our wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes bearing interest at 0.92% in the amount of $43, through a private placement. Interest is payable semi-annually and principal is due in
April 2010. In November 2002, our wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes bearing interest at 0.88% in the aggregate amount of $32, through a private placement. Interest is payable semi-annually and principal is due in November
2009. The U.S. parent company, Costco Wholesale Corporation guarantees all of the promissory notes issued by our wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary.      In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%,
resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The current Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 961,000 shares of Costco Common Stock shares at an initial conversion price of $22.71. Holders of the Zero Coupon Notes may require us
to purchase the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of purchase) in August 2012. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of
redemption) any time after August 2002. As of August 30, 2009, $858 in principal amount of the Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders to shares of Costco Common Stock, of which $25, $1, and $61 in principal were converted in 2009,
2008, and 2007 respectively, or
        
   33   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
$19 and $42 in 2009 and 2007, respectively, after factoring in the related debt discount. In 2008, the conversion of principle for Zero Coupon Notes after factoring the related debt discount was
not significant.        Derivatives        Effective November 24, 2008, we adopted the disclosure requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an Amendment of
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 133  (SFAS 161). We follow SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (as amended)  (SFAS 133), in accounting for derivative and
hedging activities.      We are exposed to foreign currency exchange-rate fluctuations in the normal course of our business, which we manage
in part through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a foreign currency. The forward foreign exchange contracts are entered into
primarily to hedge U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures. Currently, these instruments do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We use these instruments to mitigate risk and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These
contracts do not contain any credit-risk-related contingent features.      We seek to manage the counterparty risk associated with these
forward foreign exchange contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this effectively mitigates counterparty risk. In addition, the contracts are
limited to a time period of less than one year. See Note 1 and Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report, for additional information related to these contracts.      We are exposed to risks due to fluctuations in energy prices, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through
the use of fixed-price contracts with counterparties for approximately 24% of our warehouses and other facilities in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable-priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas and fuel for our gas stations on
an index basis. These contracts qualify for treatment as  normal purchase or normal sales  under SFAS 133 and require no mark-to-market adjustment.        Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements        With the exception of our operating leases, we have no off-balance sheet
arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements.        Stock Repurchase Programs        In September and November of 2007, our Board of Directors
approved $300 and $1,000, respectively, of stock repurchases, which expire in August 2010 and November 2010, respectively. In July 2008, our Board of Directors approved an additional $1,000, which expires in July 2011, bringing total authorizations
by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $6,800.      During 2009, we repurchased 895,000 shares at an average
price of $63.84 per share totaling approximately $57. During 2008, we repurchased 13,812,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $64.22 per share, totaling approximately $887. The remaining amount available to be purchased under
        
   34   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
our approved plan was $2,002 at the end of 2009. Purchases are made from time-to-time as conditions warrant in the open market or in block purchases, and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1.
Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act.        Critical Accounting Policies        The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate
our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets, warehouse closing costs, insurance/self-insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable.       Revenue Recognition       We generally recognize sales, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect
payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We
provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns. Amounts collected from members, which under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes, are recorded on a net basis.      We evaluate the criteria of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an
Agent,  in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in
establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of
gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales.      Membership fee
revenue represents annual membership fees paid by substantially all of our members. We account for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one-year membership period.      Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of $500 per year, on all qualified
purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales, with the related liability being classified within other current liabilities. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the
estimated impact of non-redemptions based on historical data.       Investments       Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic
methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the
duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry
and sector performance,
        
   35   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost
basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments.       Merchandise
Inventories       Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory
method of accounting, and are stated using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all other foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method of
accounting and are stated using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if
necessary, for the expected annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end. At the end of 2008, due to overall net inflationary trends, merchandise inventories valued at LIFO were lower than the
FIFO value, resulting in a $32 charge to merchandise costs. During 2009, due to overall deflationary trends, we recorded a $32 benefit to merchandise costs to adjust inventories valued at LIFO. At the end of 2009 and 2007, merchandise inventories
valued at LIFO approximated FIFO after considering the lower of cost or market principle.      We provide for estimated inventory losses
between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year.      Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they
are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches.
      Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Warehouse Closing costs       We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse location. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions.
Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then-current fair market value.      We provide estimates for warehouse closing costs for both leased and owned locations to be closed or relocated. A considerable amount of judgment is involved in determining any impairment or our net liability,
particularly related to the estimated sales price of owned locations and the potential sublease income at leased locations. These estimates are based on real estate conditions in the markets and our experience in those markets. We make assumptions
about the average period of time it would take to sublease the location and the amount of potential sublease income for each leased location. We reassess our liability each quarter and adjust our liability accordingly when our estimates change.
      Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities       We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly-owned captive insurance entity and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers  compensation, general
liability, property damage, director and officers  liability, vehicle liability, and
        
   36   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic
factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends.       Income Taxes       We adopted FASB Interpretation
No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48), which sets out criteria for the use of judgment in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items, at
the beginning of 2008. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and
amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not
probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate.
      Recent Accounting Pronouncements       See discussion of Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.         Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       We are exposed to
financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions, nor hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. The current condition of the
financial markets, however, has rendered identifiable risks less predictable, and liquidity concerns and credit risks have increased.       Interest Rate
Risk       Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified
amongst money market funds, debt securities, corporate notes and bonds, and enhanced money funds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities
is to preserve principal while continuing to generate yields. A revised investment policy was approved in December 2007 by our Board of Directors, limiting future investments to direct U.S. Government and Government
Agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. Government and Government Agency obligations, and U.S. Government and Government Agency Money Market funds.      The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal while continuing to generate yields. Our wholly owned insurance subsidiary invests
in U.S. Government and Government Agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA .      All of our foreign subsidiaries  investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers  acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits,
all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)          
   All of the investment policies of the Company and subsidiaries are reviewed at
least annually.      Because most of our investments in cash and cash equivalents are of a short-term nature, if interest rates were to
increase or decrease, the impact would likely be immaterial to our financial statements. Based on our overnight investments and bank balances within cash and cash equivalents at the end of 2009 and 2008, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in
interest rates would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $24 and $18 (pre-tax), respectively, to interest income on an annual basis. For those investments that are classified as available-for-sale, the unrealized gains or losses
related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders  equity in accumulated other comprehensive income.      The nature and amount of our long and short-term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2009, our fixed-rate long-term debt included: $42
principal amount at maturity of 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes carried at $32; $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes carried at $899; and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,096, and additional notes and capital lease obligations totaling
$228. Additionally, our variable rate long-term debt included a 0.35% over Yen Tibor (6-month) Term Loan of $32. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed-rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the
variable rate debt. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long and short-term debt.       Foreign Currency-Exchange Risk       Our foreign subsidiaries conduct limited transactions in their
non-functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign
exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a foreign currency.      As of August 30, 2009, and August 31, 2008, we held
forward foreign exchange contracts with a notional amount of $183 and $90, respectively, and a fair value liability of $2 and a fair value asset of $5, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the
functional currency compared to the non-functional currency exchange rates at August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008 would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $18 and $10, respectively.         Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data       Financial statements of Costco are as follows:       
       
   38   

Table of Contents  

Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (Continued)          
    Management s Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements       Our management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related
financial information. The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include certain amounts that are based on estimates and informed judgments. Our management also
prepared the related financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is responsible for its accuracy and consistency with the financial statements.      The consolidated financial statements have been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who conducted their audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). The independent registered public accounting firm s responsibility is to express an opinion as to the fairness with which such financial statements present our financial position, results of operations and cash
flows in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.         Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       None.         Item 9A Controls and Procedures        Disclosure Controls and Procedures       As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K we performed
an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act)). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, our disclosure controls and
procedures are effective.      There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) or
15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during our most recently completed year that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.      The certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as Exhibit 31.1 to this report.       Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting       Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial reporting
is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those
policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and the dispositions of our assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that our transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with appropriate authorizations; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

Item 9A Controls and Procedures (Continued)          
   Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.      Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of August 30, 2009, using the
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on its assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of August 30, 2009.       

/ S / J AMES  D. S INEGAL    
     
    / S / R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI     
 
    James D. Sinegal     President     Chief Executive Officer   
     
    Richard A. Galanti     Executive Vice President     Chief Financial Officer    
       Item 9B Other Information       None.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

      PART III          Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       The information required by this Item concerning our directors and nominees for director is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Proposal 1: Election of Directors,   Directors,   Committees of
the Board  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in Costco s proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on January 28, 2010 ( Proxy Statement ). The Proxy Statement
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of the end of our fiscal year.         Item 11 Executive Compensation       The information required by this Item is incorporated
herein by reference to the sections entitled  Compensation of Directors,   Executive Compensation,  and  Compensation Discussion and Analysis  in Costco s Proxy Statement.         Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in
Costco s Proxy Statement.         Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
      The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Proposal 1: Election of
Directors,   Directors,   Committees of the Board,   Shareholder Communications to the Board,   Meeting Attendance,   Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, 
 Certain Relationships and Transactions  and  Report of the Audit Committee,  in Costco s Proxy Statement.        
 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services       The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference to the sections entitled  Independent Public Accountants,  in Costco s Proxy Statement.        
 PART IV          Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules        

(a)  
    Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:          

1.  
    Financial Statements:         See the listing of Financial Statements included as a part of this Form 10-K on Item 8 of Part II.       

2.  
    Financial Statement Schedules None.          
    The required exhibits are included at the end of the Form 10-K Annual Report and are described in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the first exhibit.       

(b)  
    Financial Statement Schedules None.            
   41   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
     October 16, 2009    

C OSTCO  W HOLESALE  C ORPORATION      (Registrant)    

By   
     
  /s/ R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI    

Richard A. Galanti      Executive Vice President       and Chief Financial Officer     
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

By   
     
  /s/ J AMES  D. S INEGAL   

October 16, 2009    

James D. Sinegal         President, Chief Executive Officer and Director    

By   
     
  /s/ J EFFREY  H. B ROTMAN   

October 16, 2009    

Jeffrey H. Brotman      Chairman of the Board    

By   
     
  /s/ R ICHARD  D. D I C ERCHIO   

October 16, 2009    

Richard D. DiCerchio      Sr. Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer       Global Operations, Distribution and
Construction,       Manufacturing and Ancillary Businesses and       Director    

By   
     
  /s/ R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI   

October 16, 2009    

Richard A. Galanti      Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and       Director (Principal Financial
Officer)    

By   
     
  /s/ D AVID  S. P ETTERSON   

October 16, 2009    

David S. Petterson      Senior Vice President and Controller       (Principal Accounting Officer)    

By   
     
  /s/ D R . B ENJAMIN  S. C ARSON , S R ., M.D.  

October 16, 2009    

Dr. Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., M.D.      Director    

By   
     
  /s/ S USAN  L. D ECKER   

October 16, 2009    

Susan L. Decker      Director    

42   

Table of Contents  

43   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors and Shareholders      Costco Wholesale Corporation:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Costco Wholesale Corporation and subsidiaries as of August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity
and comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the 52-week periods ended August 30, 2009, August 31, 2008 and September 2, 2007. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Costco Wholesale Corporation and subsidiaries as of August 30, 2009 and August, 31, 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the 52-week periods ended August 30, 2009, August 31, 2008 and
September 2, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.        Effective September 3, 2007, the
beginning of the Company s fiscal year ended August 31, 2008, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109.       We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of August 30, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), and our report dated October 16, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.      /s/ KPMG LLP      Seattle, Washington      October 16, 2009         
   44   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors and Shareholders      Costco Wholesale Corporation:      We have audited Costco Wholesale Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of August 30, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying management s annual report on internal control over financial reporting included in Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 30, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We also have audited,
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders  equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the 52-week periods ended August 30, 2009, August 31, 2008 and September 2, 2007, and our report dated October 16, 2009 expressed an unqualified
opinion on those consolidated financial statements.      /s/ KPMG LLP      Seattle, Washington      October 16, 2009         
   45   

Table of Contents  

      COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        (dollars in millions, except par value and share data)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
        
   46   

Table of Contents  

      COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME        (dollars in millions, except per share data)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
        
   47   

Table of Contents  

      COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY        AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME        (dollars in millions, except share data)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
        
   48   

Table of Contents  

      COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (dollars in millions)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
        
   49   

Table of Contents  

      COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data)        Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        Basis of Presentation       The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of Costco Wholesale Corporation, a Washington corporation, and its subsidiaries ( Costco  or the  Company ). All material inter-company transactions among the Company and its subsidiaries
have been eliminated in consolidation.      Costco operates membership warehouses that offer low prices on a limited selection of nationally
branded and select private label products in a wide range of merchandise categories in no-frills, self-service facilities. At August 30, 2009, Costco operated 527 warehouses in 40 states and Puerto Rico (406 locations), nine Canadian provinces
(77 locations), the United Kingdom (21 locations), Japan (nine locations), Korea (seven locations), Taiwan (six locations) and Australia (one location), as well as 32 locations in Mexico, through a 50%-owned joint venture.      In connection with the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48), the Company adjusted its beginning retained earnings balance for fiscal 2008 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. See Note 9 for further discussion.
      Fiscal Year End       The
Company s fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to August 31. References to 2009, 2008 and 2007 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended August 30, 2009, August 31, 2008, and September 2, 2007, respectively.
      Use of Estimates       The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.       Reclassifications       Certain reclassifications
have been made to prior fiscal year amounts or balances to conform to the presentation adopted in the current fiscal year.       Cash and Cash Equivalents
      The Company considers as cash and cash equivalents all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date
of purchase and proceeds due from credit and debit card transactions with settlement terms of less than one week. Of the total cash and cash equivalents of $3,157 at August 30, 2009 and $2,619 at August 31, 2008, credit and debit card
receivables were $758 and $788, respectively.       Short-term Investments       In general, short-term investments have a maturity of three months to five years at the date of purchase. Investments with maturities beyond five years may be classified as short-term based on
their
        
   50   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
   
highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations. Short-term investments classified as available-for-sale are
recorded at fair value as described in Notes 2 and 3, using the specific identification method with the unrealized gains and losses reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized. Realized gains and losses from the sale of
available-for-sale securities, if any, are determined on a specific identification basis.       Receivables, net       Receivables consist of the following at the end of 2009 and 2008:       
    Vendor receivable balances are generally presented on a gross basis separate from any related
payable due. In certain circumstances, these receivables may be settled against the related payable to that vendor.      Reinsurance
receivables are held by the Company s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary. The receivable balance represents amounts ceded to the reinsurance pool, and are reflected on a gross basis, separate from the amounts assumed, which are presented
within other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets on a gross basis.      Third-party pharmacy receivables generally relate
to amounts due from members  insurance companies for the amount above their co-pay, which is collected at the point-of-sale.      Amounts are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. Management determines the allowance for doubtful accounts based on historical experience and application of the specific identification method.       Vendor Receivables and Allowances       Periodic
payments from vendors in the form of volume rebates or other purchase discounts that are evidenced by signed agreements are reflected in the carrying value of the inventory when earned or as the Company progresses towards earning the rebate or
discount and as a component of merchandise costs as the merchandise is sold. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of the related
agreement, or by other systematic approach.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
    Merchandise Inventories       Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S.
merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company believes the LIFO method more fairly presents the
results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. The Company records an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the expected annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results
determined at year-end. At the end of 2008, due to overall net inflationary trends, merchandise inventories valued at LIFO were lower than the FIFO value, resulting in a $32 charge to merchandise costs. During 2009, due to overall deflationary
trends, the Company recorded a $32 benefit to merchandise costs to adjust inventories valued at LIFO. At the end of 2009 and 2007, merchandise inventories valued at LIFO approximated FIFO after considering the lower of cost or market principle.
      
    The Company provides for estimated inventory losses between physical inventory counts as a
percentage of net sales, using estimates based on the Company s experience. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect the results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth fiscal quarters of
the fiscal year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as the Company progresses towards earning those rebates, provided that they are probable and reasonably estimable.       Property and Equipment       Property and equipment
are stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization expenses are computed using the straight-line method. Interest costs incurred on property during the construction period are capitalized. Estimated useful lives by major asset category are as
follows:       

Years    

Buildings   
      
  5 - 50   

Equipment and fixtures   
      
  3 - 10   

Leasehold improvements   
      
  Shorter of useful life or lease term   

Land improvements   
      
  15   

Software acquisition and development   
      
  3 - 6   
     Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       The Company periodically evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when management makes the decision to relocate or close a warehouse or when events or changes in circumstances occur that
may
        
   52   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
   
indicate the carrying amount of the asset group, generally an individual warehouse, may not be fully recoverable. For asset groups to be held and used, including warehouses to be relocated, the
carrying value of the asset group is recoverable when the estimated future undiscounted cash flows generated from the use and eventual disposition of the asset group exceed the group s net carrying value. In the event that the carrying value is
not recoverable, an impairment loss would be recognized for the asset group to be held and used as the excess of the carrying amount over the respective fair value. For asset groups classified as held for sale (disposal group), the carrying value is
compared to the disposal group s fair value less costs to sell. The Company estimates fair value by obtaining market appraisals from third party brokers or other valuation techniques. In 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded impairment charges of
$11 and $10, respectively. For 2009, the charge was primarily related to the closure of its two Costco Home locations in July 2009. For 2008, the charge was primarily related to a warehouse that was demolished, rebuilt, and reopened in early 2009.
No impairment charge for long-lived assets was recorded in 2007.       Other Assets       Other assets consist of the following at the end of 2009 and 2008:       
    The Company s investments in Costco Mexico, a 50%-owned joint venture, and in other
unconsolidated joint ventures that are less than majority owned are accounted for under the equity method. The equity in earnings of Costco Mexico is included in interest income and other in the accompanying consolidated statements of income, and
for 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $32, $41, and $33, respectively. The amount of retained earnings that represents undistributed earnings of Costco Mexico was $266 and $234 at the end of 2009 and 2008, respectively. The investments and equity in earnings
of other unconsolidated joint ventures are not material. The Company did not make any capital contributions to its investment in Costco Mexico in 2009, 2008, or 2007.      The Company adjusts the carrying value of its life insurance contracts to the net cash surrender value at the end of each reporting period. The adjustment reflects changes in the net realizable value of the
employee life insurance contracts based largely on changes in investment assets underlying the policies and is included in selling, general, and administrative expenses. The net realizable value of these contracts is largely based on changes in
investment assets underlying the policies and subject to conditions generally affecting equity and debt markets. The adjustment to cash surrender value was a decrement of $23 and $10 in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and a benefit of $6 in 2007. These
amounts are reflected in other non-cash items, net, in cash flows from operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
   Goodwill resulting from certain business combinations is reviewed for impairment in the fourth
quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently if circumstances dictate. No impairment of goodwill has been incurred to date.      Notes
receivable generally represent amounts due from cities over a number of years representing incentive amounts granted to the Company when a new location was opened, or for the repayment of certain infrastructure initially paid for by the Company.
      Accounts Payable       The
Company s banking system provides for the daily replenishment of major bank accounts as checks are presented. Accordingly, included in accounts payable at the end of 2009 and 2008 are $611 and $640, respectively, representing the excess of
outstanding checks over cash on deposit at the banks on which the checks were drawn.       Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities       The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly-owned captive insurance entity and participation in a
reinsurance program, to provide for potential liabilities for workers  compensation, general liability, property damage, director and officers  liability, vehicle liability and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the
risks that are retained by the Company are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors, and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities
could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. As of the end of 2009 and 2008, these insurance liabilities of $500 and $485, respectively, were included in accounts payable,
accrued salaries and benefits, and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets, classified based on their nature.      The
Company s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary (the captive) received $120, $131, and $140 in direct premiums during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. These revenues are netted against the Company s premium costs in selling, general
and administrative expenses, in the consolidated statements of income. The captive participates in a reinsurance program. The member agreements and practices of the reinsurance program limit any participating members  individual risk.
Reinsurance premiums assumed and ceded were $76, $68, and $68 during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Both revenues and costs are presented on a net basis in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income.
Income statement adjustments related to the reinsurance program are recognized as information is received. In the event the Company leaves the reinsurance program, the Company is not relieved of its primary obligation to the policyholders for
activity prior to the termination of the agreement.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
    Other Current Liabilities       Other current liabilities consist of the following at the end of 2009 and 2008:       
     Derivatives       Effective November 24, 2008, the beginning of the Company s second quarter of 2009, the Company adopted the disclosure requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 161,
 Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133  (SFAS 161). The Company follows SFAS No 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (as
amended)  (SFAS 133), in accounting for derivative and hedging activities.      The Company is exposed to foreign currency
exchange-rate fluctuations in the normal course of its business, which the Company manages, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures
denominated in a foreign currency. The forward foreign exchange contracts are entered into by the Company primarily to hedge U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures. Currently, these instruments do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting.
The Company uses these instruments to mitigate risk and does not intend to engage in speculative transactions. The aggregate notional amount of forward foreign exchange contracts was $183 and $90 at the end of 2009 and 2008, respectively. These
contracts do not contain any credit-risk-related contingent features.      The Company seeks to manage the counterparty risk associated with
these forward foreign exchange contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which the Company has an established banking relationship. There can be no assurance, however, that this effectively mitigates counterparty risk. In addition,
the contracts are limited to a time period of less than one year. See Note 3 for information on the fair value of these contracts.      At
the end of 2009, the fair value of the Company s derivatives, which do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, was as follows:       

Asset   
      
   Liability    
 
    Forward foreign exchange contracts(1)   
      
  $  
  2  
      
  $  
  4   

Total derivatives   
      
  $  
  2  
      
  $  
  4   

(1)  
    The asset and the liability values are included in deferred income taxes and other current assets and other current liabilities, respectively, in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.            
   55   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes the amount of gain or (loss) recognized in interest income and
other in the accompanying consolidated statements of income:       
    The Company is exposed to risks due to fluctuations in energy prices, particularly electricity
and natural gas, which it seeks to partially mitigate through the use of fixed-price contracts with counterparties for approximately 24% of its warehouses and other facilities in the U.S. and Canada. The Company also enters into variable-priced
contracts for some purchases of natural gas and fuel for its gas stations on an index basis. These contracts qualify for treatment as  normal purchase or normal sales  under SFAS 133 and require no mark-to-market adjustment.       Foreign Currency Translation       The functional
currencies of the Company s international subsidiaries are the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary is located. Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies, as well as the Company s investment in Costco Mexico,
are translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged or credited to accumulated other comprehensive income. Revenues and expenses of the Company s consolidated foreign
operations are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are included in interest income and other and were not significant in 2009, 2008, or 2007.       Revenue Recognition       The Company generally
recognizes sales, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When the Company collects payments from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of
services, the amounts received are generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. The Company provides for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns.
Amounts collected from members, which under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes, are recorded on a net basis.      During
2007, in connection with changes to its consumer electronic returns policy, the Company developed more detailed operational data regarding member return patterns. The data indicated a longer timeframe over which returns are received than was
previously estimated. Accordingly, during 2007 the Company increased the estimated sales returns reserve balance and recorded an adjustment to sales of $452 and a pretax charge to income of $94 for the related gross margin and disposition costs.
     The Company evaluates whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount
earned as commissions. Generally, when Costco is the primary obligor, is subject to inventory risk, has latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, can influence product or service specifications, or has several but not all of these
indicators, revenue is
        
   56   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
   
recorded on a gross basis. If the Company is not the primary obligor and does not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, it records the net amounts as commissions earned,
which is reflected in net sales.      Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by substantially all of the
Company s members. The Company accounts for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one-year membership period. In 2007, the Company performed a detailed analysis of the timing of recognition
of membership fees based on each member s specific renewal date, as this methodology represented an improvement over the historical method, which was based on the period in which the fee was collected. This review resulted in a $56 reduction to
membership fee revenue in 2007 and a corresponding increase to deferred membership fees on the Company s consolidated balance sheet. This adjustment included both a change in method of applying an accounting principle to a preferable method and
a correction for cumulative timing errors. The adjustment for the change in method and for the correction was recorded in full in the 2007 consolidated statement of income as the Company concluded the impact to the current and historical financial
statements was not material.      As previously disclosed, effective with renewals occurring on and after March 1, 2009, the Company
changed an element of its membership renewal policy. Memberships renewed within two months after expiration of the current membership year are extended for twelve months from the expiration date. (Under the previous policy, renewals within six
months of the expiration date were extended for twelve months from the expiration date.) Memberships renewed more than two months after such expiration date are extended for twelve months from the renewal date. Although this change will have the
effect of deferring recognition of certain membership fees paid by late-renewing members, the effect is not expected to be material.      The Company s Executive members qualify for a 2% reward, which can be redeemed at Costco warehouses, up to a maximum of $500 per year, on all qualified purchases made at Costco. The Company accounts for this 2% reward as a reduction in
sales, with the related liability being classified within other current liabilities. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non-redemptions based on historical data. The reduction
in sales was $610, $571, and $488 in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.       Merchandise Costs       Merchandise costs consist of the purchase price of inventory sold, inbound shipping charges and all costs related to the Company s depot
operations, including freight from depots to selling warehouses, and are reduced by vendor consideration received. Merchandise costs also include salaries, benefits and depreciation on production equipment in certain fresh foods and ancillary
departments.       Selling, General and Administrative Expenses       Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits and workers  compensation costs for warehouse employees, other than fresh foods departments and certain ancillary
businesses, as well as all regional and home office employees, including buying personnel. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include utilities, bank charges, rent and substantially all building and equipment depreciation, as well as
other operating costs incurred to support warehouse operations.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
    Marketing and Promotional Expenses       Costco s policy is generally to limit marketing and promotional expenses to new warehouse openings, occasional direct mail marketing to prospective new members and direct mail marketing
programs to existing members promoting selected merchandise. Marketing and promotional costs are expensed as incurred and are included in selling, general and administrative, and preopening expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of
income.       Stock-Based Compensation       Compensation expense for all stock-based awards granted is recognized using the straight-line method. The fair value of restricted stock units (RSUs) is calculated as the market value of the common stock on the measurement date less the
present value of the expected dividends forgone during the vesting period. The fair value of stock options is measured using the Black-Scholes valuation model. While options and RSUs granted to employees generally vest over five years, all grants
allow for either daily or quarterly vesting of the pro-rata number of stock-based awards that would vest on the next anniversary of the grant date in the event of retirement or voluntary termination. The historical experience rate of actual
forfeitures has been minimal. As such, the Company does not reduce stock-based compensation for an estimate of forfeitures because the estimate is inconsequential in light of historical experience and considering the awards vest on either a daily or
quarterly basis. The impact of actual forfeitures arising in the event of involuntary termination is recognized as actual forfeitures occur, which generally is infrequent. Stock-based compensation expense is included in merchandise costs and
selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of income. See Note 7 for additional information on the Company s stock-based compensation plans.       Preopening Expenses       Preopening expenses related to new warehouses, major remodels and
expansions, new regional offices and other startup operations are expensed as incurred.       Closing Costs       Warehouse closing costs incurred relate principally to the Company s relocation of certain warehouses (that were not otherwise impaired) to larger
and better-located facilities. The provisions for 2009, 2008, and 2007 included charges in the amounts indicated below:       
    Warehouse closing expenses primarily relate to accelerated building depreciation based on the
shortened useful life through the expected closing date and remaining lease obligations, net of estimated sublease income, for leased locations. At the end of both 2009 and 2008, the Company s reserve for warehouse closing costs was $5 and
primarily related to future lease obligations.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
    Fair Value of Financial Instruments       The carrying value of the Company s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, and accounts payable approximate fair value due to their short-term nature or
variable interest rates. See Notes 2, 3, and 4 for details on the carrying value and fair value of the Company s investments, derivative instruments, and fixed rate debt.       Interest Income and Other       Interest income and other includes:       
     Other-Than-Temporary Impairment       The Company periodically evaluates unrealized losses in its investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment using both qualitative and quantitative criteria. In the event a security
is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, the Company recognizes the credit loss component in interest income and other in the consolidated financial statements. The Company generally only invests in debt securities.       Income Taxes       The Company accounts for income
taxes using the asset and liability method. Under the asset and liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributed to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and tax credits and loss carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences and carry-forwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation
allowance is established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to amounts expected to be realized.      The determination of the
Company s provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable
items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in the Company s financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the uncertain tax
positions will withstand challenge, if any, from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, the Company reassess these probabilities and records any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. See Note 9 for
additional information.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
    Net Income per Common Share       The computation of basic net income per share is based on the weighted average number of shares that were outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted net income per share is based on the weighted
average number of shares used in the basic net income per share calculation plus the number of common shares that would be issued assuming exercise of all potentially dilutive common shares outstanding using the treasury stock method for shares
subject to stock options and restricted stock units and the  if converted  method for the convertible note securities.       Stock Repurchase
Programs       Shares repurchased are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. The par value of repurchased
shares is deducted from common stock and the excess repurchase price over par value is deducted from additional paid-in capital and retained earnings. See Note 6 for additional information.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In
June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 168,  The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162  ( SFAS 168 ), which
establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification as the source of authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) (other than guidance issued by the SEC) to be used in the preparation of financial statements. SFAS 168 is
effective prospectively for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The Company must adopt these new requirements in its first quarter of fiscal 2010, which will result in expanded disclosure.
     In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167,  Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46R  (SFAS 167), which revises
the approach to determine the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (VIE) and requires companies to more frequently reassess whether they must consolidate a VIE. SFAS 167 applies prospectively starting with the first interim financial
period of the annual reporting period beginning after November 15, 2009. The Company must adopt these new requirements in its first quarter of fiscal 2011. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 167 to have a material impact on its
consolidated financial statements.      In May 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 165,  Subsequent Events  (SFAS 165), which
establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. SFAS 165 applies prospectively to both interim and annual
financial periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company adopted these new requirements in its fourth quarter of 2009. Adoption of this standard had no material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.      In April 2009, three FASB Staff Positions (FSP) were issued addressing fair value of financial instruments: FSP FAS 157-4,  Determining Fair
Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly  addresses determining fair values in inactive markets; FSP FAS 115-2,  Recognition and
Presentation of Other-
        
   60   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)          
   
Than-Temporary Impairments  addresses other-than-temporary impairments for debt securities; and FSP FAS 107-1,  Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments  requires
interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. The Company adopted these FSPs in its fourth quarter of 2009, with no material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS 157), which establishes a framework for measuring fair value
and requires expanded disclosures regarding fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement 157  (FSP 157-2), which allows for the deferral of the adoption date of SFAS 157 for
all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. The Company elected to defer the adoption of SFAS 157 for the assets and liabilities
within the scope of FSP 157-2 until August 31, 2009, the beginning of its fiscal year 2010. In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-3,  Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset in a Market That Is Not Active 
(FSP 157-3), which clarifies the application of SFAS 157 when the market for a financial asset is inactive. The adoption of SFAS 157 for those assets and liabilities not subject to the deferral permitted by FSP 157-2 did not have a
material impact on the Company s financial position or results of operations and is summarized in Note 3. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities to have a material impact on its
consolidated financial statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated
Financial Statements, an Amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No 51  (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, changes in a
parent s ownership of a noncontrolling interest, calculation and disclosure of the consolidated net income attributable to the parent and the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parent s ownership interest while the parent retains its
controlling financial interest and fair value measurement of any retained noncontrolling equity investment. SFAS 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within
those fiscal years. Early adoption is prohibited. The Company must adopt these new requirements in its first quarter of fiscal 2010. SFAS 160 will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests, and require expanded disclosure.
     In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R,  Business Combinations  (SFAS 141R), which establishes principles and
requirements for the reporting entity in a business combination, including recognition and measurement in the financial statements of the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. SFAS
141R applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The
Company must adopt these new requirements in its first quarter of fiscal 2010.      Except as noted above, the Company is in the process of
evaluating the impact that adoption of these standards will have on its future consolidated financial statements.         
   61   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          
    Note 2 Investments       The major categories of the Company s investments are as follows:       Money market mutual funds:       The Company invests in money funds that seek to maintain a net
asset value of a $1.00, while limiting overall exposure to credit, market, and liquidity risks.       U.S. government and agency securities:
      These U.S. government secured debt instruments are publically traded and valued. Losses in this category are primarily due to market
liquidity and interest rate reductions.       Corporate notes and bonds:       The Company evaluates its corporate debt securities based on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the credit rating of the issuer. The vast majority of the Company s corporate debt securities
are rated investment grade by the major rating agencies.       Asset and mortgage-backed securities:       The vast majority of the Company s asset and mortgage-backed securities have investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies. These
investments are collateralized by residential sub-prime credit, credit card receivables, commercial real estate, foreign mortgage receivables, and lease receivables. Estimates of fair value are based upon a variety of factors including, but not
limited to, credit rating of the issuer, internal credit risk, interest rate variation, prepayment assumptions, and the potential for default.       Certificates of deposit:       Certificate of deposits are short-term interest-bearing debt instruments issued by various
financial institutions with which the Company has an established banking relationship. Those certificates of deposit issued by U.S. financial institutions are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 2 Investments (Continued)          
   The Company s investments at August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008,
were as follows:       
     
    For available-for-sale securities, proceeds from sales were $183, $165, and $496 in 2009, 2008,
and 2007, respectively. Gross realized gains from sales were $5, $2, and $1 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and gross realized losses from sales were $2 and $1 in 2009 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, gross realized losses from sales were not
significant.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 2 Investments (Continued)          
   The following tables present the length of time available-for-sale securities were in continuous
unrealized loss positions, but were not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired:       
    Gross unrealized holding losses of $1, at August 30, 2009, for investments held greater
than or equal to twelve months pertained to the Company s holdings in corporate notes and bonds. The unrealized loss on these securities largely reflects changes in interest rates and higher spreads driven by the challenging conditions in the
credit markets. The $1 of gross unrealized losses is attributable to the Company s holdings in eight individual securities from five issuers.      As the Company presently does not intend to sell its debt securities and believes that it is not more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell the securities that are in an unrealized loss position before
recovery of their amortized cost, the Company does not consider these securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired.      In 2008, one of
the Company s enhanced money fund investments, Columbia Strategic Cash Portfolio Fund (Columbia), ceased accepting cash redemption requests and changed to a floating net asset value. In light of the restricted liquidity, the Company elected to
receive a pro-rata allocation of the underlying securities in a separately managed account. The Company assessed the fair value of these securities through market quotations and review of current investment ratings, as available, coupled with an
evaluation of the liquidation value of each investment and its current performance in meeting scheduled payments of principal and interest. During 2009 and 2008, the Company recognized $12 and $5, respectively, of other-than-temporary impairment
losses related to these securities. The losses are included in interest income and other in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. At August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, the balance of the Columbia fund was $27 and $104,
respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets.      In 2008, two other enhanced money fund investments, BlackRock Cash Strategies, LLC
(BlackRock) and Merrill Lynch Capital Reserve Fund, LLC (Merrill Lynch), ceased accepting redemption requests and commenced liquidation. As of August 31, 2008, the balance of the BlackRock and Merrill Lynch funds was $82 and $43, respectively,
on the consolidated balance sheets. During 2009, these funds were liquidated and the Company received the remaining balances of its investment.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 2 Investments (Continued)          
   During 2008, the Company reclassified $371 of these three funds from cash and cash equivalents to
short-term investments and other assets. At August 30, 2009, $24 remained in short-term investments and $3 remained in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets, reflecting the timing of the expected distributions. At August 31,
2008, $161 was in short-term investments and $68 in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.      The markets relating to these
investments remain uncertain, and there may be further declines in the value of these investments that may cause additional losses in future periods.      The maturities of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities at August 30, 2009 are as follows:       
     Note 3 Fair Value Measurement       On September 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS 157, as amended by FSP 157-1, FSP 157-2, and FSP 157-3 and effective May 11, 2009, the Company adopted FSP 157-4 (collectively referred
to as SFAS 157), for all financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis or on a nonrecurring basis during the reporting period. While the Company adopted
the provisions of SFAS 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, no such assets or liabilities existed at the balance sheet date. The Company, in
accordance with FSP 157-2, delayed implementation of SFAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. Nonfinancial nonrecurring assets and liabilities
included on the Company s consolidated balance sheets include items, such as goodwill and long lived assets, that are measured at fair value to test for and measure an impairment charge, when necessary.      SFAS 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. SFAS 157 also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs when measuring fair value. The standard describes three levels of
inputs:      Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.      Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data.      Level 3: Significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.      The following valuation techniques are used to measure fair value:      Level 1 primarily consists of financial instruments, such as money market mutual funds, whose value is based on quoted market prices, such as quoted net asset values published by the fund as
supported in an active market, exchange-traded instruments and listed equities.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 3 Fair Value Measurement (Continued)          
   Level 2 includes assets and liabilities where quoted market prices are unobservable but observable
inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities, could be
obtained from data providers or pricing vendors. The Company s Level 2 assets and liabilities primarily include U.S. government and agency securities, investments in corporate notes and bonds, asset and mortgage-backed securities, and forward
foreign exchange contracts. Valuation methodologies are based on  consensus pricing,  using market prices from a variety of industry-standard independent data providers or pricing that considers various assumptions, including time value,
yield curve, volatility factors, credit spreads, default rates, loss severity, current market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments or debt, broker and dealer quotes, as well as other relevant economic measures. All are observable in
the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data, for which the Company typically receives independent external valuation information.      Level 3 is comprised of significant unobservable inputs for valuations from the Company s independent data and a primary pricing vendor that are also supported by little, infrequent, or
no market activity. Limited amounts of the Company s investments, which comprise the majority of securities in the Columbia fund that have not yet been sold or liquidated, are invested in asset and mortgage-backed securities and corporate notes
and bonds that are classified as Level 3 based upon management s assessment of the available inputs. Management considers indicators of significant unobservable inputs such as the lengthening of maturities, later-than-scheduled payments, and
any remaining individual securities that have otherwise matured, as indicators of Level 3. Assets and liabilities are considered Level 3 when their fair value inputs are unobservable, unavailable or management concludes that even though there may be
some observable inputs, an item should be classified as a Level 3 based on other indicators of significant unobservable inputs, such as situations involving limited market activity, where determination of fair value requires significant judgment or
estimation. The Company utilizes the services of a primary pricing vendor, which does not provide access to their proprietary valuation models, inputs and assumptions. While the Company is not provided access to proprietary models of the vendor, the
Company reviewed and contrasts pricing received with other pricing sources to ensure accuracy of each asset class for which prices are provided. The Company s review also included an examination of the underlying inputs and assumptions for a
sample of individual securities across asset classes, credit rating levels and various durations, a process that is continually performed for each reporting period. In addition, the pricing vendor has an established challenge process in place for
all security valuations, which facilitates identification and resolution of potentially erroneous prices. The Company believes that the prices received from the primary pricing vendor are representative of exit prices in accordance with SFAS 157, as
amended, and are classified appropriately in the SFAS 157 hierarchy.      During the third quarter of 2009, the Company considered
continuing indicators of significant unobservable inputs, such as the lengthening of maturities, later-than-scheduled payments, and any securities that have defaulted, as Level 3 inputs for valuation. This resulted in a transfer of $37 into Level 3
from Level 2. Transfers into and out of Level 3 from Level 2, where applicable, are reported using the fair value of the individual securities as of the beginning of the reporting period in which the transfer occurred. During the fourth quarter of
2009, the Company expanded its description of Level 3 input evaluation to address pricing elements of adopting FSP 157-4. This updated description did not change the current period s price evaluation as the pricing modeling used by the
Company s primary
        
   66   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 3 Fair Value Measurement (Continued)          
   
pricing vendor during the previous quarter accounted for inputs in accordance with the newly adopted standard. At August 30, 2009, all of the Company s Level 3 investments of $26, were
comprised of individual securities in the Columbia fund and represent the majority of the balance of the fund at August 30, 2009.       Assets and
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis       The following table presents information about the Company s financial
assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of August 30, 2009, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized to determine such fair value:       

(1)  
    See Note 1 for additional information on derivative instruments.         The table below provides a summary of the changes in fair value, including net transfers, of all financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3) for the year ended August 30, 2009:       

Investment in corporate notes and bonds   

Investment in asset and mortgage- backed securities   

Total   

Balance, beginning of period   
      
  $  
  12  

$  
  6  

$  
  18  

Total realized and unrealized gains (losses):   

Included in other comprehensive income   

3  

3  

Included in interest income and other   

(4  
  )   

(6  
  )   

(10  
  )    
 
    Purchases, issuances, and (settlements)   

(17  
  )   

(23  
  )   

(40  
  )    
 
    Net transfers in   

23  

32  

55  

Balance, end of period   
      
  $  
  14  

12  

26  

Change in unrealized gains (losses) included in interest income and other related to assets held as of August 30, 2009   

$  
  (4  
  )   

(4  
  )   

(8  
  )    
     Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis       As discussed in Note 2, the Company previously held enhanced money fund investments within the BlackRock and Merrill Lynch portfolios, which were
classified as held-to-maturity. During 2009, these portfolios fully liquidated. The Company did not record any other-than-temporary impairment losses on these investments throughout the timeframe they were held.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          
    Note 4 Debt        Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs (all amounts stated in U.S. dollars)        

(1)  
    The U.S. parent company, Costco Wholesale Corporation, guarantees this entity s credit facility.          

(2)  
    The letter of guarantee is fully cash-collateralized by the subsidiary.            
   68   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 4 Debt (Continued)          

(1)  
    This entity s credit facility is guaranteed by the U.S. parent company, Costco Wholesale Corporation.          

(2)  
    The letter of guarantee is fully cash-collateralized by the United Kingdom subsidiary.          

(3)  
    The amount shown for short-term borrowings under this facility is net of a note issue discount, which is excluded from the available credit amount.
        Note: The Company has letter of credit facilities (for commercial and standby letters of credit) totaling $116 and
$239 as of August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, respectively. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008 totaled $83 and $116, respectively, including $62 and $69, respectively, in
standby letters of credit. For those entities with multi-purpose lines, any issuance of either letters of credit (standby and/or commercial) or short-term borrowings will result in a corresponding decrease in available credit.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 4 Debt (Continued)          
    Short-Term Borrowings       The weighted average borrowings, maximum borrowings, and weighted average interest rate under all short-term borrowing arrangements were as follows for 2009 and 2008:       
    At August 30, 2009, the Company was in compliance with all restrictive covenants of its
short-term borrowings.       Long-Term Debt       Long-term debt at August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008 consisted of the following:       
       
   70   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 4 Debt (Continued)          
   In July 2009, the Company entered into a capital lease for a new warehouse location and recorded a
liability in the amount of $72, representing the net present value of $150 in aggregate future minimum lease payments at an imputed interest rate of 5.4%. This lease expires and becomes subject to a renewal clause in 2040. As of August 30,
2009, $71 is included in long-term debt and $1 in the current portion of long-term debt on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company has other minor capital lease obligations that amounted to $5 at the end of 2009 and 2008.      In June 2008, the Company s wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten-year term loan in the amount of $32, with a variable rate of
interest of Yen TIBOR (6-month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.95% and 1.24% at August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, respectively) on the outstanding balance. The net proceeds were used to repay the 1.187% Promissory Notes due in July 2008 and for
general corporate purposes. Interest is payable semi-annually in December and June and principal is due in June 2018.      In October 2007,
the Company s wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $69, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi-annually, and principal is due in October 2017. The proceeds were used
to repay the 2.07% Promissory Notes in October 2007 and for general corporate purposes.      In February 2007, the Company issued $900
of 5.3% Senior Notes due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 (2017 Notes) at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year and the net proceeds were used, in part, to repay the 5.5% 2002 Senior Notes due in March 2007. The $8 discount and $2 issuance costs associated with the Senior Notes are being
amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. The Company, at its option, may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of
100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase
the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes.      In April 2003, the Company s wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes bearing interest at 0.92% in the amount of $43, through a
private placement. Interest is payable semi-annually and principal is due in April 2010. In November 2002, the Company s wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes bearing interest at 0.88% in the aggregate amount of $32, through
a private placement. Interest is payable semi-annually and principal is due in November 2009. The Company guarantees all of the promissory notes issued by its wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary.      In August 1997, the Company sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were
priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds to the Company of $450. The current Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 961,000 shares of Costco Common Stock shares at an initial conversion price of
$22.71. Holders of the Zero Coupon Notes may require the Company to purchase the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of purchase) in August 2012. The Company, at its option, may redeem the Zero Coupon
Notes
        
   71   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 4 Debt (Continued)          
   
(at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of August 30, 2009, $858 in principal amount of the Zero Coupon Notes had been
converted by note holders to shares of Costco Common Stock, of which $25, $1, and $61 in principal were converted in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, or $19 and $42 in 2009 and 2007, respectively, after factoring in the related debt discount. In
2008, the conversion of principle for Zero Coupon Notes after factoring the related debt discount was not significant.      At
August 30, 2009, the fair value of the Zero Coupon Notes, based on market quotes, was approximately $44, the fair value of the 2012 Notes and 2017 Notes was $973 and $1,213, respectively, and the fair value of other long-term debt approximated
its carrying value. The fair value of the Zero Coupon Notes and the 2007 Senior Notes are based on quoted market prices of similar types of borrowing arrangements or the Company s current incremental borrowing rate, if applicable.   
  Maturities of long-term debt during the next five fiscal years and thereafter are as follows:       
     Note 5 Leases       The Company leases land and/or buildings at 112 of the 527 warehouses open at August 30, 2009, and certain other office and distribution facilities primarily under operating leases. These leases expire at
various dates through 2049, with the exception of one lease in the Company s United Kingdom subsidiary, which expires in 2151. These leases generally contain one or more of the following options which the Company can exercise at the end of the
initial lease term: (a) renewal of the lease for a defined number of years at the then-fair market rental rate or rate stipulated in the lease agreement; (b) purchase of the property at the then-fair market value; or (c) right of
first refusal in the event of a third party purchase offer.      The Company accounts for its lease expense with free rent periods and
step-rent provisions on a straight-line basis over the original term of the lease, from the date the Company has control of the property. Certain leases provide for periodic rental increases based on the price indices, and some of the leases provide
for rents based on the greater of minimum guaranteed amounts or sales volume. Contingent rents have not been material. Certain leases may require the Company to incur costs to return leased property to its original condition, such as the removal of
gas tanks. The Company has recorded the estimated asset retirement obligation associated with these leases, which amounted to $24 at the end of 2009.      Aggregate rental expense for 2009, 2008, and 2007 was $177, $167, and $143, respectively.      The
Company has sub-leases related to certain of its operating lease agreements. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized sub-lease income of $10, $10, and $9, respectively, which is included in interest income and other in the consolidated
statements of income.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 5 Leases (Continued)          
   Future minimum payments, net of sub-lease income of $163 for all years combined, during the next
five fiscal years and thereafter under non-cancelable operating leases with terms of at least one year, at August 30, 2009, were as follows:       
     Note 6 Stockholders  Equity        Dividends       In 2009, the Company paid quarterly cash dividends totaling $0.68 per share. In 2008
and 2007, the Company paid quarterly cash dividends totaling $0.61 and $0.55 per share, respectively. The Company s current quarterly dividend rate is $0.18 per share or $0.72 per share on an annualized basis.      Payment of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. Factors considered in determining the size of the dividends are
profitability and expected capital needs of the Company. The Company presently expects to continue to pay dividends on a quarterly basis.       Stock
Repurchase Programs       The Company s stock repurchase activity during 2009, 2008, and 2007 is summarized in the following table:
      
    These amounts differ from the stock repurchase balances in the consolidated statements of cash
flows to the extent that repurchases had not settled at the end of the fiscal year. Purchases are made from time-to-time as conditions warrant in the open market or in block purchases, and pursuant to share repurchase plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1.
Repurchased shares are retired.      Amounts remaining under stock repurchase authorizations of the Board of Directors at the end of 2009
are detailed below:       
       
   73   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 6 Stockholders  Equity (Continued)          
    Comprehensive Income       Comprehensive income includes net income plus certain other items that are recorded directly to stockholders  equity. Accumulated other comprehensive income reported on the Company s consolidated balance
sheets consists of foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on short-term investments and their related tax effects.      The following table shows the components of comprehensive income, net of related tax effects:       
    The components of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, were as follows:
      
     Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans       Through the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company granted stock options under the Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (Second Restated 2002 Plan) and predecessor plans, and
since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company has granted RSUs in lieu of stock options under the Second Restated 2002 Plan. In the second quarter of 2008, the Second Restated 2002 Plan was amended following shareholder approval and is now
referred to as the Third Restated 2002 Plan. The Third Restated 2002 Plan authorized the issuance of an additional eight million shares of common stock for future grants in addition to grants previously authorized. The Third Restated 2002 Plan was
amended by the Board of Directors in July 2008 (Fourth Restated 2002 Plan). Under the Fourth Restated 2002 Plan, prospective grants of RSUs are subject, upon certain terminations of employment, to quarterly, as opposed to daily vesting. Previously
awarded RSU grants continue to involve daily vesting upon certain terminations of employment. Additionally, employees who attain certain years of service with the Company will receive shares under accelerated vesting provisions on the annual vesting
date rather than upon qualified retirement. The first grant impacted by these amendments occurred in the first quarter of 2009. Each share issued in respect of stock bonuses or stock units is counted as 1.75 shares toward the limit of shares made
available under the Fourth Restated 2002 Plan. The Company issues new shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options and vesting of RSUs.         
   74   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans (Continued)          
    Summary of Stock Option Activity       The following table summarizes stock option transactions during 2009:       

(1)  
    The difference between the original exercise price and market value of common stock at August 30, 2009.          

(2)  
    Stock options generally vest over five years and have a ten-year term.         The following is a summary of stock options outstanding at the end of 2009 (number of options in thousands):       
    At the end of 2008 and 2007, there were 15,735 and 19,283 options exercisable at weighted
average exercise prices of $39.14 and $38.35, respectively.      The tax benefits realized and intrinsic value related to total stock
options exercised during 2009, 2008 and 2007 are provided in the following table:       

(1)  
    The difference between the original exercise price and market value of common stock measured at each individual exercise date.      
     
   75   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans (Continued)          
    U.S. Attorney s Office Investigation on Certain Stock Options       As previously disclosed, in March 2007, the Company was informed by the U.S. Attorney s Office in the Western District of Washington that the
office was conducting an investigation of the Company s past stock option granting practices to determine whether there had been any violations of federal law. As part of this investigation, the U.S. Attorney s Office served a grand jury
subpoena on the Company, seeking documents and information relating to its historic stock option grants. On February 12, 2009, the U.S. Attorney s Office publicly announced that it had closed its investigation.       Employee Tax Consequences on Certain Stock Options       As previously disclosed, in 2006, a special committee of independent directors was formed to determine whether the stated grant dates of stock options were supported by the Company s books and records. In connection with this review
and guidance issued by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service in 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved a program intended to protect approximately 1,000 Company employees who are United States taxpayers from certain adverse
tax consequences resulting from their options having been granted originally at prices lower than the market value. The program involved increasing the exercise prices on certain stock options granted from 2000 to 2003 and, in turn, the Company
making payments to employees in an amount approximately equal to the increase in the exercise price. In 2007, as a result of this program, the Company made cash payments totaling $19 to approximately 1,000 employees, which resulted in a pre-tax
stock compensation charge of $8 ( incremental fair value ). The difference between the cash payment and the incremental fair value of $11 was recognized as a reduction to additional paid-in capital, as it represented a partial cash
settlement of the original award because no future service was required to earn the cash payment.      Also connected with this review, the
Company is examining alternatives to mitigate the potential adverse tax consequences associated with effected unexercised options held by Canadian employees that were the subject of an accounting adjustment in fiscal 2006. During 2009 and 2008, the
Company made payments of approximately $7 and $38, respectively, to employees in Canada related to options exercised in calendar years 2004 through the end of calendar year 2008. The related liability as of the end of 2009 and 2008 was $2 and $9,
respectively.       Summary of Restricted Stock Unit Activity       RSUs granted to employees and to non-employee directors generally vest over five years and three years, respectively; however, the Company provides for accelerated vesting upon qualified retirement for recipients
that have attained certain years of service with the Company. Recipients are not entitled to vote or receive dividends on unvested shares. At the end of 2009, 5,343,000 RSUs were available to be granted to eligible employees and directors under the
Fourth Restated 2002 Plan.      The following awards were outstanding at the end of 2009:       

7,828,000 shares of time-based RSUs in which the restrictions lapse upon the achievement of continued employment over a specified period of time; and
           
   76   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans (Continued)          

703,000 performance RSUs, of which 305,000 will be formally granted to certain executive officers of the Company upon the official certification of the
attainment of specified performance targets for 2009. Once formally granted, the restrictions lapse upon achievement of continued employment over a specified period of time.         The following table summarizes RSU transactions during 2009:       
     Summary of Stock-Based Compensation       The following table summarizes stock-based compensation and the related tax benefits under the Company s plans:       
    The remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs at August 30,
2009, was $345, and the weighed-average period of time over which this cost will be recognized is 3.3 years. The remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options at August 30, 2009, was $20, and the weighted-average
period of time over which this cost will be recognized is 0.6 years.       Note 8 Retirement Plans       The Company has a 401(k) Retirement Plan that is available to all U.S. employees who have completed 90 days of employment. For all U.S. employees, with
the exception of California union employees, the plan allows pre-tax deferrals against which the Company matches 50% of the first one thousand dollars of employee contributions. In addition, the Company provides each eligible participant an annual
contribution based on salary and years of service.      California union employees participate in a defined benefit plan sponsored by their
union. The Company makes contributions based upon its union agreement. For all the California union employees, the Company-sponsored 401(k) plan currently allows pre-tax deferrals against which the Company matches 50% of the first five hundred
dollars of employee contributions. In addition, the Company will provide each eligible participant a contribution based on hours worked and years of service.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 8 Retirement Plans (Continued)          
   The Company has a defined contribution plan for Canadian and United Kingdom employees and
contributes a percentage of each employee s salary. Certain other foreign operations have defined benefit and contribution plans that are not significant. Amounts expensed under all plans were $287, $272, and $239 for 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively.       Note 9 Income Taxes       Effective September 3, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48, which clarified the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements. FIN 48 also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for
the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure,
and transition.      The cumulative effect of the initial adoption of FIN 48 was an increase of $6 to the Company s liability for
uncertain tax positions. The impact of this adjustment was to decrease the beginning balance of retained earnings and to increase the Company s liability for uncertain tax positions and related interest by a corresponding amount.      Upon adoption of FIN 48, the Company had approximately $103 of gross unrecognized tax benefits. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
gross unrecognized tax benefits for 2009 and 2008 is as follows:       
    Included in the balance at August 30, 2009, are $50 of tax positions for which the
ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of these tax positions would
not affect the annual effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period.      The
total amount of such unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in future periods is $20 and $35 at August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, respectively.      Accrued interest and penalties related to income tax matters are classified as a component of income tax expense, which is consistent with the
classification prior to the adoption of FIN 48. During the year, the Company recognized $4 of interest expense and penalties. Accrued interest and penalties are $20 and $24 at August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, respectively.   
     
   78   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 9 Income Taxes (Continued)          
   The Company is currently under audit by several taxing jurisdictions in the United States and in
several foreign countries. Some audits may conclude in the next 12 months and the unrecognized tax benefits we have recorded in relation to the audits may differ from actual settlement amounts. It is not possible to estimate the effect, if any, of
any amount of such change during the next 12 months to previously recorded uncertain tax positions in connection with the audits. The Company does not anticipate that there will be a material increase or decrease in the total amount of unrecognized
tax benefits in the next twelve months.      The Company files income tax returns in the United States, various state and local
jurisdictions, in Canada and in several other foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state or local examination for years before fiscal 2004. The Company is currently subject to examination in
Canada for fiscal years 2002 to present and in California for fiscal years 2004 to present. No other examinations are believed to be material.      Income before income taxes is comprised of the following:       
    The provisions for income taxes for 2009, 2008, and 2007 are as follows:       
    Tax benefits associated with the exercise of employee stock options and other employee stock
programs were allocated to shareholders  equity in the amount of $2, $62, and $42, in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 9 Income Taxes (Continued)          
   The reconciliation between the statutory tax rate and the effective rate for 2009, 2008, and 2007
is as follows:       
    The components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:       
    The deferred tax accounts at the end of 2009 and 2008 include current deferred income tax
assets of $247 and $261, respectively, included in deferred income taxes and other current assets; non-current deferred income tax assets of $7 and $5, respectively, included in other assets; current deferred income tax liabilities of $0 and $1,
respectively, included in other current liabilities; and non-current deferred income tax liabilities of $174 and $114, respectively, included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities.      The effective income tax rate on earnings was 36.7% in 2009, 35.8% in 2008, and 36.7% in 2007. During 2008 and 2007, the Company distributed $104 and $120 respectively in earnings from its
Canadian operation s.  In 2009, the distribution was not material.      The Company has not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on
cumulative undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. affiliates, including its 50% owned investment in the Mexico corporate joint venture, aggregating $1,554 and $1,235 at the end of 2009 and 2008, respectively, as such earnings are deemed
indefinitely reinvested. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits and complexity of the computation, it is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability or benefit associated with such earnings if such earnings
were not deemed to be indefinitely reinvested.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          
    Note 10 Net Income Per Common and Common Equivalent Share       The following table shows the amounts used in computing net income per share and the effect on income and the weighted average number of shares of
dilutive potential common stock (shares in 000 s).       
     Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies        Legal Proceedings       The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and
litigation arising from its business and property ownership. The Company is a defendant in the following matters, among others:      Two
cases purportedly brought as class actions on behalf of certain present and former Costco managers in California, in which plaintiffs principally allege that they have not been properly compensated for overtime work. Scott M. Williams v. Costco
Wholesale Corp., United States District Court (San Diego), Case No. 02-CV-2003 NAJ (JFS); Greg Randall v. Costco Wholesale Corp., Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles, Case No. BC-296369. On February 21, 2008 the court in Randall
tentatively granted in part and denied in part plaintiffs  motion for class certification. That order was finalized by the court on May 13, 2008. The parties in Randall have agreed on a partial settlement of the action (resolving all
claims except for the miscalculation claim), requiring a payment of up to $16 by the Company, which was reserved for in 2008. The Court granted final approval of the settlement on June 22, 2009. Settlement distribution is underway. The
miscalculation claim from the Randall case was refiled as a separate action by stipulation, alleging that the Company miscalculated the rates of pay for all department and ancillary managers in California in violation of Labor Code
Section 515(d). On October 2, 2009, the court granted the Company s motion for summary judgement. Terry Head v. Costco Wholesale Corp., Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles, Case No. BC-409805. In the Williams action, the
parties have achieved a settlement in principle for a gross amount of $440 thousand. Any settlement will be subject to court approval.      On December 26, 2007, another putative class action was filed, also principally alleging denial of overtime compensation. The complaint alleges misclassification of certain California managers. On March 6, 2008, Costco filed a
motion to dismiss. On May 15, 2008, the court partially granted the
        
   81   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)          
   
motion, dismissing certain claims and refusing to expand the statute of limitations for the remaining claims. An answer to the complaint was filed on May 27, 2008. Plainiff s class
certification motion is pending. Jesse Drenckhahn v. Costco Wholesale Corp., United States District Court (Los Angeles), Case No. CV08-1408 FMC (JMJ).      A case purportedly brought as a class action on behalf of present and former hourly employees in California, in which the plaintiff principally alleges that the Company s routine closing procedures and
security checks cause employees to incur delays that qualify as uncompensated working time and that effectively deny them statutorily guaranteed meal periods and rest breaks. The complaint was filed on October 2, 2008, and the Company s
motion to dismiss was partially granted. Discovery is ongoing. Anthony Castaneda v. Costco Wholesale Corp., Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles, Case No. BC-399302. A similar purported class action was filed on May 15, 2009, on behalf
of present and former hourly employees in California, claiming denial of wages and false imprisonment during the post-closing jewelry and till  pull,  when security measures allegedly cause employees to be locked in the warehouses. This
complaint has not yet been served on the Company. Mary Pytelewski v. Costco Wholesale Corp., Superior Court for the County of San Diego, Case No. 37-2009-00089654.      A putative class action, filed on January 24, 2008, purportedly brought on behalf of two groups of former California employees an  Unpaid Wage Class  and a  Wage Statement Class.  The
 Unpaid Wage Class  alleges that the Company improperly deducts employee credit card balances from final paychecks, while the  Wage Statement Class  alleges that final paychecks do not contain the accurate and itemized
information legally required for wage statements. On May 29, 2008, the court granted in part a motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the wage-itemization claims. On May 5, 2009, the Court denied the Company s motion for summary
judgment. Plaintiff s class certification motion is pending. Carrie Ward v. Costco Wholesale Corp., United States District Court (Los Angeles), Case No. CV08-02013 FMC (FFM).      Claims in these actions are made under various provisions of the California Labor Code and the California Business and Professions Code. Plaintiffs seek restitution/disgorgement, compensatory
damages, various statutory penalties, punitive damages, interest, and attorneys  fees.      A case brought as a class action on behalf
of certain present and former female managers, in which plaintiffs allege denial of promotion based on gender in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and California state law. Shirley  Rae  Ellis v. Costco Wholesale
Corp., United States District Court (San Francisco), Case No. C-04-3341-MHP. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, interest and attorneys  fees. Class certification was granted by the district court on
January 11, 2007. On May 11, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit granted a petition to hear the Company s appeal of the certification. The appeal was argued on April 14, 2008. Proceedings in the
district court have been stayed during the appeal. The parties await a decision from the Ninth Circuit.      Class actions
stated to have been brought on behalf of certain present and former Costco members:      In Evans, et ano, v. Costco Wholesale Corp., No.
BC351869 (Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles), and Dupler v. Costco Wholesale Corp., Index No. 06-007555 (commenced in the Supreme Court of Nassau County, New York and removed to the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of New York), it is asserted that the Company violated various provisions of California and
        
   82   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)          
   
New York common law and statutes in connection with a membership renewal practice. Under that practice, members who paid their renewal fees late generally had their twelve-month membership
renewal periods commence at the time of the prior year s expiration rather than the time of the late payment. Plaintiffs in these two actions seek compensatory damages, restitution, disgorgement, preliminary and permanent injunctive and
declaratory relief, attorneys  fees and costs, prejudgment interest and, in Evans, punitive damages. On April 2, 2009, the district court preliminarily approved a settlement that, if finally approved, will resolve both of these actions.
The settlement entails a provisional certification of a nationwide class of present and former Costco members who from March 1, 2001, to March 31, 2009, paid their membership renewal fees late and had their renewal periods commence at the
prior year s expiration date rather than the date of payment. Depending upon their individual circumstances, class members can be eligible for up to a three-month extension of their current membership or, if they are no longer Costco members, a
temporary membership of up to three months. Other than payments to two class representatives, the settlement does not provide for cash payments to class members. The Company has agreed not to oppose a request for an award of attorneys  fees to
class counsel in an amount up to $5. A hearing is set for October 16, 2009, for the court to consider whether the settlement should receive final approval. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company recorded an adjustment to deferred membership
fees of $27 and a reserve was established in the amount of $7 to cover the expected costs of the certificates, payment of attorneys  fees to class counsel, and certain expenses of settlement administration. Further details of the proposed
settlement can be obtained from the notice to class members, which can be viewed at http://www.costco.com/renewalsettlement.pdf.      Numerous putative class actions have been brought around the United States against motor fuel retailers, including the Company, alleging that they have been overcharging consumers by selling gasoline or diesel that is warmer than 60 degrees
without adjusting the volume sold to compensate for heat-related expansion or disclosing the effect of such expansion on the energy equivalent received by the consumer. The Company is named in the following actions: Raphael Sagalyn, et al., v.
Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-430 (D. Md.); Phyllis Lerner, et al., v. Costco Wholesale Corporation, et al., Case No. 07-1216 (C.D. Cal.); Linda A. Williams, et al., v. BP Corporation North America, Inc., et al., Case
No. 07-179 (M.D. Ala.); James Graham, et al. v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 07-193 (E.D. Va.); Betty A. Delgado, et al., v. Allsups, Convenience Stores, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-202 (D.N.M.); Gary Kohut, et al. v.
Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-285 (D. Nev.); Mark Rushing, et al., v. Alon USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 06-7621 (N.D. Cal.); James Vanderbilt, et al., v. BP Corporation North America, Inc., et al., Case No. 06-1052 (W.D. Mo.);
Zachary Wilson, et al., v. Ampride, Inc., et al., Case No. 06-2582 (D. Kan.); Diane Foster, et al., v. BP North America Petroleum, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-02059 (W.D. Tenn.); Mara Redstone, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Case
No. 07-20751 (S.D. Fla.); Fred Aguirre, et al. v. BP West Coast Products LLC, et al., Case No. 07-1534 (N.D. Cal.); J.C. Wash, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al.; Case No. 4:07cv37 (E.D. Mo.); Jonathan Charles Conlin, et al., v.
Chevron USA, Inc., et al.; Case No. 07 0317 (M.D. Tenn.); William Barker, et al. v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al.; Case No. 07-cv-00293 (D.N.M.); Melissa J. Couch, et al. v. BP Products North America, Inc., et al., Case No. 07cv291 (E.D.
Tex.); S. Garrett Cook, Jr., et al., v. Hess Corporation, et al., Case No. 07cv750 (M.D. Ala.); Jeff Jenkins, et al. v. Amoco Oil Company, et al., Case No. 07-cv-00661 (D. Utah); and Mark Wyatt, et al., v. B. P. America Corp., et al., Case
No. 07-1754 (S.D. Cal.). On June 18, 2007, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation assigned the action, entitled In re Motor Fuel Temperature Sales Practices Litigation, MDL Docket No 1840, to Judge Kathryn Vratil in the United
States District Court for the District of Kansas. On February 21,
        
   83   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)          
   
2008, the court denied a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. On April 12, 2009, the Company agreed to a settlement involving the actions in which it is named as a
defendant. Under the settlement, which is subject to approval by the court, the Company has agreed, to the extent allowed by law, to install over five years from the effective date of the settlement temperature-correcting dispensers in the States of
Alabama, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, and Virginia. Other than payments to class representatives, the settlement does not provide for cash payments to
class members. On August 18, 2009, the court preliminarily approved the settlement and set a hearing for April 1, 2010, to consider final approval of the settlement. Further details of the proposed settlement can be obtained from the
notice to class members, which can be viewed at http://www.costco.com/fuelsettlement.pdf.      The Company has been named as a defendant in
two purported class actions relating to sales of organic milk. Hesse v. Costco Wholesale Corp., No. C07-1975 (W.D. Wash.); Snell v. Aurora Dairy Corp., et al., No. 07-CV-2449 (D. Col.). Both actions claim violations of the laws of various
states, essentially alleging that milk provided to Costco by its supplier Aurora Dairy Corp. was improperly labeled  organic.  Plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint on July 18, 2008. With respect to the Company, plaintiffs seek to
certify four classes of people who purchased Costco organic milk. Aurora has maintained that it has held and continues to hold valid organic certifications. The consolidated complaint seeks, among other things, actual, compensatory, statutory,
punitive and/or exemplary damages in unspecified amounts, as well as costs and attorneys  fees. On June 3, 2009, the court entered an order dismissing with prejudice, among others, all claims against the Company. Plaintiffs have appealed
the dismissal.      The Company has been named as a defendant in a purported class action relating to sales of farm-raised salmon. Farm
Raised Salmon Coordinated Proceedings, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. JCCP No. 4329. The action alleges that the Company violated California law requiring farm-raised salmon to be labeled as  color added.  The complaint asserts
violations of the California Unfair Competition Law, the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act, and the California False Advertising Law, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks restoration of money acquired by means of unfair competition or
false advertising and compensatory damages in unspecified amounts, injunctive relief remedying the allegedly improper disclosures, and costs and attorneys  fees. A California Superior Court ruling dismissing the action on the ground that
federal law does not permit claims for mislabeling of farm-raised salmon to be asserted by private parties was reversed by the California Supreme Court. The Company has denied the material allegations of the complaint.      The Company has been named as a defendant in a purported nationwide class action relating to sales of certain waffles, which alleges that labeling
(provided by the Company s supplier) of these items was deceptive and misleading. Hodes, et al., v. Van s International Foods, et al., United States District Court for the Central District of California, Case No. CV 09-01530. The complaint
asserts causes of action for fraud, breach of warranty, false advertising under California Business and Professions Code sections 17500 et seq., and unfair business practices under California Business and Professions Code sections 17200 et seq.
Relief sought includes compensatory, consequential, and punitive damages, restitution, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys  fees. By orders dated June 23, and July 23, 2009, the district court dismissed the fraud claim against
the Company and denied the plaintiffs  motion for class certification. On September 23, 2009, the district court dismissed the action for lack of jurisdiction. Plaintiff is seeking to appeal the denial of class certification.   
     
   84   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)          
   In Verzani v. Costco Wholesale Corp., No. 09 CV 2117 (United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York), a purported nationwide class action, the plaintiffs allege claims for breach of contract and violation of the Washington Consumer Protection Act, based on the failure of the Company to disclose on the label of its
 Shrimp Tray with Cocktail Sauce  the weight of the shrimp in the item as distinct from the accompanying cocktail sauce, lettuce, and lemon wedges. The complaint seeks various forms of damages (including compensatory and treble damages and
disgorgement and restitution), injunctive and declaratory relief, attorneys  fees, costs, and prejudgment interest. On April 21, 2009, the plaintiff filed a motion for a preliminary injunction, seeking to prevent the Company from selling
the shrimp tray unless the Company separately discloses the weight of the shrimp and provides shrimp consistent with the disclosed weight. By orders dated July 29 and August 6, 2009, the court denied the preliminary injunction motion and
dismissed the claim for breach of contract. Plaintiffs are appealing.      Three shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed, ostensibly
on behalf of the Company, against certain of its current and former officers and directors, relating to the Company s stock option grants. One suit, Sandra Donnelly v. James Sinegal, et al., Case No. 08-2-23783-4 SEA (King County Superior
Court), was filed in Washington state court on or about July 17, 2008. Plaintiff alleges, among other things, that individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company by  backdating  grants of stock options issued
between 1997 and 2005 to various current and former executives, allegedly in violation of the Company s shareholder-approved stock option plans. The complaint asserts claims for unjust enrichment, breach of fiduciary duties, and waste of
corporate assets, and seeks damages, corporate governance reforms, an accounting, rescission of certain stock option grants, restitution, and certain injunctive and declaratory relief, including the declaration of a constructive trust for certain
stock options and proceeds derived from the exercise of such options. On April 3, 2009, on the Company s motion the court dismissed the action, following the plaintiff s disclosure that she had ceased to own Costco common stock, a
requirement for her to pursue a derivative action. The second action, Pirelli Armstrong Tire Corp. Retiree Medical Benefits Trust v. James Sinegal, et al., Case No. 2:08-cv-01450-TSZ (United States District Court for the Western District of
Washington), was filed on or about September 29, 2008, and names as defendants all but one of the Company s directors and certain of its senior executives. Plaintiff alleges that defendants approved the issuance of backdated stock options,
concealed the backdating of stock options, and refused to vindicate the Company s rights by pursuing those who obtained improper incentive compensation. The complaint asserts claims under both state law and the federal securities laws and seeks
relief comparable to that sought in the state court action described above. Plaintiff further alleges that the misconduct occurred from at least 1997, and continued until 2006, and that as a result virtually all of the Company s SEC filings and
financial and other public statements were false and misleading throughout this entire period (including, but not limited to, each of the Company s annual financial statements for fiscal years 1997 through 2007 inclusive). Plaintiff alleges,
among other things, that defendants caused the Company to falsely represent that options were granted with exercise prices that were not less than the fair market value of the Company s stock on the date of grant and issuance when they were
not, to conceal that its internal controls and accounting controls were grossly inadequate, and to grossly overstate its earnings. In addition, it is further alleged that when the Company announced in October 2006 that it had investigated its
historical option granting practices and had not found fraud that announcement itself was false and misleading because, among other reasons, it failed to report that defendants had consistently received options granted at monthly lows for the grant
dates and falsely suggested that backdating did not occur. Plaintiff also alleges that false and misleading statements inflated the market price
        
   85   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)          
   
of the Company s common stock and that certain individual defendants sold, and the Company purchased, shares at inflated prices. The third action, Daniel Buckfire v. James D. Sinegal, et
al., No. 2:09-cv-00893-TSZ (United States District Court for the Western District of Washington), was filed on or about June 29, 2009, and contains allegations substantially similar to those in the Pirelli action. On August 12, 2009,
the court entered an order consolidating the Pirelli and Buckfire actions. On October 2, 2009, plaintiffs Pirelli and Buckfire filed a consolidated amended complaint, to which the defendants have yet to respond. That complaint is largely similar to
previous filings, except that: it challenges additional grants (in 1995, 1996, and 2004) and alleges that additional federal securities law filings, including proxy statements and SEC Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and related officer
certifications (generally from 1996 through and including 2008) were false and misleading for failure to adequately disclose circumstances surrounding grants of options; and now includes as defendants only the following individuals: James D.
Sinegal, Richard A. Galanti, Jeffrey H. Brotman, Hamilton E. James, John W. Meisenbach, Jill S. Ruckelshaus, Charles T. Munger, Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., Richard D. DiCerchio, and David S. Petterson.      On October 4, 2006, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office for the Central District of
California, seeking records relating to the Company s receipt and handling of hazardous merchandise returned by Costco members and other records. The Company is cooperating with the inquiry and at this time cannot reasonably estimate any loss
that may arise from this matter.      The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued an Information Request to the Company, dated
November 1, 2007, under the Clean Air Act. The EPA is seeking records regarding warehouses in the states of Arizona, California, Hawaii, and Nevada relating to compliance with regulations concerning air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment.
On March 4, 2009, the Company was advised by the Department of Justice that the Department was prepared to allege that the Company has committed at least nineteen violations of the leak-repair requirements of 40 C.F.R.   82.156(i) and at
least seventy-four violations of the recordkeeping requirements of 40 C.F.R.   82.166(k), (m) at warehouses in these four states. The Company has responded to these allegations, is engaged in communications with the Department about these
and additional allegations made by letter dated September 10, 2009, and has entered into a tolling agreement.      An Information
Request, dated January 14, 2008, has also been received concerning a warehouse in New Hampshire. Substantial penalties may be levied for violations of the Clean Air Act. In April 2008 the Company received an information request from the South
Coast Air Quality Management District concerning certain locations in Southern California. The Company has responded to that request. The Company is cooperating with these inquiries and at this time cannot reasonably estimate any loss that might
arise from these matters.      The Company has received notices from most states stating that they have appointed an agent to conduct an
examination of the books and records of the Company to determine whether it has complied with state unclaimed property laws. In addition to seeking the turnover of unclaimed property subject to escheat laws, the states may seek interest, penalties,
costs of examinations, and other relief.      Except where indicated otherwise above, a reasonable estimate of the possible loss or range of
loss cannot be made at this time for the matters described. The Company does not believe that any pending claim, proceeding or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial
position; however, it is possible that an unfavorable outcome of some or all of the matters, however unlikely, could result in a charge that might be material to the results of an individual fiscal quarter.         
   86   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          
    Note 12 Segment Reporting       The Company and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in the operation of membership warehouses in the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, the United Kingdom, and through
majority-owned subsidiaries in Taiwan and Korea and through a 50%-owned joint-venture in Mexico. The Company s reportable segments are based on management s organization of the operating segments for making operational decisions and
assessments of financial performance, which considers geographic locations. The investment in the Mexico joint-venture is only included in total assets under United States Operations in the table below, as it is accounted for under the equity method
and its operations are not consolidated in the Company s financial statements.       
    The material accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1. All
inter-segment net sales and expenses are immaterial and have been eliminated in computing total revenue and operating income.       

(a)  
    Certain home office operating expenses are incurred on behalf of the Company s Canadian and other international operations, but are included in the
United States operations above because those costs are not allocated internally and generally come under the responsibility of the Company s United States management team.          

(b)  
    Includes a $39 charge related to protecting employees from adverse tax consequences resulting from the Company s internal review of its historical stock
option grant practices in 2006 of certain stock options (See Note 7).            
   87   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          
    Note 13 Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)       The two tables that follow reflect the unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2009 and 2008.       

(a)  
    Includes a $27 decrease to membership fees related to a proposed litigation settlement concerning our membership renewal policy (See Note 11 - Commitments and
Contingencies).            
   88   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except
share data) (Continued)          

    Note 13 Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) (Continued)          

(b)  
    Includes a $32 increase to merchandise costs for a LIFO inventory adjustment (See Note 1 - Merchandise Inventories).          Note 14 Subsequent Events       The Company
evaluated subsequent events and transactions for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements through October 16, 2009, the day the consolidated financial statements were issued.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT INDEX       The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or are incorporated herein by reference. Where an exhibit is incorporated by reference, the number that follows the description of the
exhibit indicates the document to which cross-reference is made. See the end of this exhibit index for a listing of cross-reference documents.       

*  
    Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.          

1.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on August 30, 1999.
           
   90   

Table of Contents  

2.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal year ended
September 3, 2000.          

4.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Price/Costco, Inc. for the fiscal year ended September 3,
1995.          

5.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Companies, Inc. for the fiscal year ended August 30,
1998.          

7.  
    Incorporated by reference to Annex A to Schedule 14A of Costco Wholesale Corporation filed December 13, 1999.          

9.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal first quarter ended
November 20, 2005.          

10.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal third quarter ended
May 7, 2006.          

11.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal second quarter ended
February 18, 2007.          

12.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on January 31, 2008.

13.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on November 20, 2008.

14.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on April 30, 2009.

15.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal year ended August 31,
2008.            
   91   

<EX-10.6.1>
 2
 dex1061.htm
 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

Executive Employment Agreement 

Exhibit 10.6.1       As of August 31, 2009      Jim Sinegal      999 Lake Drive      Issaquah, WA 98027      Dear Jim:      This letter agreement confirms the terms of your employment with Costco Wholesale Corporation (the  Company ):       

1.  
     Employment.  The Company employs you as its President and Chief Executive Officer.          

2.  
     Employment Term.  The terms of this letter agreement cover one year, beginning August 31, 2009, and coinciding with the Company s fiscal year
2010, unless otherwise terminated as provided below. The parties may renew this letter agreement from year-to-year upon agreement.          

3.  
     Salary and Benefits.           

(a)  
    You will receive a base salary of $350,000 for fiscal year 2010. The base salary will be paid to you in accordance with the Company s standard payroll
practices.          

(b)  
    You will be eligible for a bonus of up to $200,000. The amount of any bonus will be determined by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee, and
will be paid to you in accordance with the Company s standard practices.          

(c)  
    You will be eligible for an equity award under the Company s Third Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan or its successor plan. The Board of Directors or
the Compensation Committee will determine the amount of any grant.          

(d)  
    All payments to you will be subject to withholding for taxes and other applicable withholding requirements.          

(e)  
    You will be eligible to participate in the Company s employee benefit programs, in accordance with the terms and conditions of those programs.

4.  
     Termination.  The Company will have the right to terminate your employment at any time for  cause,  as determined under applicable law and
policies of the Company. You may terminate your employment at any time upon not less than sixty (60) days prior written notice.          

5.  
     Miscellaneous.  This letter agreement represents our complete agreement on these subjects. We can only amend this letter agreement by signing a written
amendment. This letter will be governed by Washington law in all respects.         If you agree with the
terms contained in this letter, please sign the enclosed copy of this letter and return it to me.        

Sincerely    

Compensation Committee of the     Board of Directors of     Costco Wholesale Corporation    

By:   
     
    /s/ DR. BENJAMIN S. CARSON, SR., M.D.    

Director    

Acknowledged and agreed:    

/s/    JAMES D.
SINEGAL            
 
  Jim Sinegal   

Dated:   
     
    9/22/09    

</EX-10.6.1>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21.1        COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        SUBSIDIARIES        

Subsidiaries    
     
     State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 

Name under Which     Subsidiary Does Business    
 
  Costco Wholesale Canada Ltd.  
     
  Canadian Federal  
     
  Costco Wholesale Canada, Ltd.,     Costco Wholesale    
 
  Costco Canada Holdings Inc.  
     
  Canadian Federal  
     
  Costco Canada Holdings Inc.   
 
  NW Re Ltd.  
     
  Arizona  
     
  NW Re Ltd.   
 
  Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc.  
     
  California  
     
  Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc.   
 
  Costco Wholesale United Kingdom Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom  
     
  Costco Wholesale United Kingdom Ltd.   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.1        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of
Directors      Costco Wholesale Corporation:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 033-50799, 333-82782, 333-120523, 333-129172, 333-135052, 333-150014 and 333-151748) on Form S-8 and the registration statement (No.
333-140651) on Form S-3 of Costco Wholesale Corporation of our reports dated October 16, 2009, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Costco Wholesale Corporation as of August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the 52-week periods ended August 30, 2009, August 31, 2008 and September 2, 2007, and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting as of August 30, 2009, which reports appear in the August 30, 2009 annual report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation.      Our report on the consolidated financial statements refers to the Company s adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an
Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, effective September 3, 2007 the beginning of the Company s fiscal year ended August 31, 2008.      /s/ KPMG LLP      Seattle, Washington      October 16, 2009   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13(A) - 14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

Rule 13(a) - 14(a) Certifications 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATIONS       I, James D. Sinegal, certify that:       

1)  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation;          

2)  
    Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;          

3)  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;          

4)  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:          

a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;          

b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;          

c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;          

d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fiscal 2009
fourth quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and          

5)  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors:          

a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over
financial reporting.         October 16, 2009       

/s/    J AMES  D. S INEGAL     
 
    James D. Sinegal    
 
    President, Chief Executive Officer    

CERTIFICATIONS       I, Richard A. Galanti, certify that:       

1)  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation;          

2)  
    Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;          

3)  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;          

4)  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:          

a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;          

b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;          

c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;          

d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fiscal 2009
fourth quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and          

5)  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors:          

a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over
financial reporting.         October 16, 2009       

/s/    R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI     
 
    Richard A. Galanti    
 
    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

Section 1350 Certifications 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION       In connection with the Annual Report of Costco Wholesale Corporation (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ending August 30, 2009 (the  Report ), I, James D. Sinegal, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ J AMES  D. S INEGAL    
     
  Date: October 16, 2009   
 
  James D. Sinegal  

President, Chief Executive Officer  

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to and will be retained by Costco
Wholesale Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

CERTIFICATION       In connection with the Annual Report of Costco Wholesale Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ending August 30, 2009 (the  Report ), I, Richard A. Galanti, Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI    
     
  Date: October 16, 2009   
 
  Richard A. Galanti  

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to and will be retained by Costco
Wholesale Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

