<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20101018_10-K_edgar_data_909832_0001193125-10-230379_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>13286557</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>243552</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2488040</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>977896</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3525708</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5824397</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>82</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-230379.hdr.sgml : 20101018
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20101015184036
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-230379
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20100829
FILED AS OF DATE:		20101018
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20101015

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP /NEW
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000909832
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-VARIETY STORES [5331]
		IRS NUMBER:				911223280
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0830

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20355
		FILM NUMBER:		101126709

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		999 LAKE DRIVE
		CITY:			ISSAQUAH
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98027-
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4253138100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		999 LAKE DRIVE
		CITY:			ISSAQUAH
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98027

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	COSTCO COMPANIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19970401

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PRICE/COSTCO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19930728

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 I580HQwGPkcp5xY7/nVusGyPvw0P/NQd3LV5rnDN/zFBMPO/slBHwzn3/gX9GgcE
 lpGzuB4Nn2rwVL+KYwXQow==

 0001193125-10-230379.txt : 20101018

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549          
   FORM 10-K        
     For the fiscal year ended August 29, 2010        OR    

Commission file number 0-20355        
        Costco Wholesale
Corporation       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Washington   
     
   91-1223280    
 
    (State or other jurisdiction of     incorporation or organization)   
     
  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)        999 Lake
Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027       (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)   
  Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (425) 313-8100     
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Common Stock, $.005 Par Value  
     
  The NASDAQ Global Select Market        Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None        
        
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES            NO              Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES            NO           
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES            NO              Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). YES            NO              Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer           
      
  Accelerated filer

Non-accelerated filer         (Do not check if a smaller company)   
      
  Smaller reporting company
              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
YES            NO              The aggregate market value of the
voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant at February 14, 2010 was $25,866,245,752      The number of shares outstanding of
the registrant s common stock as of October 1, 2010 was 432,333,947       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    
  Portions of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 27, 2011, are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.           

Table of Contents  

    COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED AUGUST 29, 2010          TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    
 
      PART I     

Item 1.   
      
     Business    
      
  3   
 
    Item 1A.   
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  9   
 
    Item 1B.   
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  16   
 
    Item 2.   
      
     Properties    
      
  17   
 
    Item 3.   
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  17   
 
    Item 4.   
      
     Removed and Reserved    
      
  17   

PART II     

Item 5.   
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities    
      
  18   
 
    Item 6.   
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  19   
 
    Item 7.   
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  20   
 
    Item 7A.   
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  36   
 
    Item 8.   
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  37   
 
    Item 9.   
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  37   
 
    Item 9A.   
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  38   
 
    Item 9B.   
      
     Other Information    
      
  38   

PART III     

Item 10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  39   
 
    Item 11.   
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  39   
 
    Item 12.   
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  39   
 
    Item 13.   
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  39   
 
    Item 14.   
      
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
      
  39   

PART IV     

Item 15.   
      
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  39          
   2   

Table of Contents  

       Certain statements contained in
this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that we expect or anticipate may
occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results, or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. See Item 1A Risk Factors for a
discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect our business.         PART I    
     Item 1 Business       Costco Wholesale Corporation and its subsidiaries ( Costco  or the  Company ) began operations in 1983 in Seattle, Washington. In October 1993, we merged with The Price Company, which had
pioneered the membership warehouse concept, to form Price/Costco, Inc., a Delaware corporation. In January 1997, after the spin-off of most of our non-warehouse assets to Price Enterprises, Inc., we changed our name to Costco Companies, Inc. On
August 30, 1999, we reincorporated from Delaware to Washington and changed our name to Costco Wholesale Corporation. Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  COST.    
   General       We operate membership warehouses
based on the concept that offering our members low prices on a limited selection of nationally branded and selected private-label products in a wide range of merchandise categories will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. This
turnover, when combined with the operating efficiencies achieved by volume purchasing, efficient distribution and reduced handling of merchandise in no-frills, self-service warehouse facilities, enables us to operate profitably at significantly
lower gross margins than traditional wholesalers, mass merchandisers, supermarkets, and supercenters.      We buy the majority of our
merchandise directly from manufacturers and route it to a cross-docking consolidation point ( depot ) or directly to our warehouses. Our depots receive container-based shipments from manufacturers and reallocate these goods for shipment to
our individual warehouses, generally in less than twenty-four hours. This maximizes freight volume and handling efficiencies, eliminating many of the costs associated with traditional multiple-step distribution channels. Such traditional steps
include purchasing from distributors as opposed to manufacturers, use of central receiving, storing and distributing warehouses, and storage of merchandise in locations off the sales floor.   
  Because of our high sales volume and rapid inventory turnover, we generally sell inventory before we are required to pay many of our merchandise
vendors, even though we take advantage of early payment discounts when available. To the extent that sales increase and inventory turnover becomes more rapid, a greater percentage of inventory is financed through payment terms provided by suppliers
rather than by our working capital.      Our typical warehouse format averages approximately 143,000 square feet; newer units tend to be
larger. Floor plans are designed for economy and efficiency in the use of selling space, the handling of merchandise, and the control of inventory. Because shoppers are attracted principally by the quality of merchandise and the availability of low
prices, our warehouses need not have elaborate facilities. By strictly controlling the entrances and exits of our warehouses and using a membership format, we have limited inventory losses (shrinkage) to less than two-tenths of one percent of net
sales in the last several fiscal years well below those of typical discount retail operations.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)    
     
   We generally limit marketing and promotional activities to new warehouse openings, occasional
direct mail to prospective new members, and regular direct marketing programs (such as The Costco Connection, a magazine we publish for our members, coupon mailers, weekly email blasts from costco.com, and handouts) to existing members promoting
selected merchandise. These practices result in lower marketing expenses as compared to typical retailers. In connection with new warehouse openings, our marketing teams personally contact businesses in the area that are potential business members.
These contacts are supported by direct mailings during the period immediately prior to opening. Potential Gold Star (individual) members are contacted by direct mail or by membership offerings distributed through employee associations and other
entities. After a membership base is established in an area, most new memberships result from word-of-mouth advertising, follow-up messages distributed through employee groups, and ongoing direct solicitations to prospective members.   
  Our warehouses generally operate on a seven-day, 69-hour week, open weekdays between 10:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m., with earlier closing hours
on the weekend. Gasoline operations generally have extended hours. Because the hours of operation are shorter than those of traditional retailers, discount retailers and supermarkets, and due to other efficiencies inherent in a warehouse-type
operation, labor costs are lower relative to the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales floor and displayed on pallets containing large quantities, thereby reducing labor required for handling and stocking.
     Our strategy is to provide our members with a broad range of high quality merchandise at prices consistently lower than they can obtain
elsewhere. We seek to limit specific items in each product line to fast-selling models, sizes and colors. Therefore, we carry an average of approximately 3,900 active stock keeping units (SKUs) per warehouse in our core warehouse business, as
opposed to 45,000 to 140,000 SKUs or more at discount retailers, supermarkets, and supercenters. Many consumable products are offered for sale only in case, carton, or multiple-pack quantities only.   
  In keeping with our policy of member satisfaction, we generally accept returns of merchandise. On certain electronic items, we have a 90-day return
policy in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom and provide, free of charge, technical support services, as well as an extended warranty.      The following table indicates the approximate percentage of net sales accounted for by major category of items:       

2010   

2009   

2008   

Sundries  (including candy, snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages and cleaning and institutional
supplies)   
      
  23  
  %   
     
  23  
  %   
     
  22  
  %    
 
     Hardlines  (including major appliances, electronics, health and beauty aids, hardware, office supplies, garden and patio, sporting
goods, toys, seasonal items and automotive supplies)   
      
  18  
  %   
     
  19  
  %   
     
  19  
  %    
 
     Food  (including dry and institutionally packaged foods)   
      
  21  
  %   
     
  21  
  %   
     
  20  
  %    
 
     Softlines  (including apparel, domestics, jewelry, housewares, media, home furnishings, cameras and small appliances)   

10  
  %   
     
  10  
  %   
     
  10  
  %    
 
     Fresh Food  (including meat, bakery, deli and produce)   
      
  12  
  %   
     
  12  
  %   
     
  12  
  %    
 
     Ancillary and Other  (including gas stations, pharmacy, food court, optical, one-hour photo, hearing aid and travel)   
      
  16  
  %   
     
  15  
  %   
     
  17  
  %           
   4   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)    
     
       Ancillary businesses within
or next to our warehouses provide expanded products and services and encourage members to shop more frequently. The following table indicates the number of ancillary businesses in operation at fiscal year end:   
   
    Costco Mexico, our 50%-owned joint
venture, operated 32 warehouses at August 29, 2010. We have contractual responsibility for executive, management and functional duties and operations of Costco Mexico. The Costco Mexico warehouses are not included in the table above as Costco
Mexico is accounted for using the equity method of accounting for investments.      Our electronic commerce businesses, costco.com in the
U.S. and costco.ca in Canada, provide our members additional products generally not found in our warehouses, in addition to services such as digital photo processing, pharmacy, travel, and membership services.   
  Our warehouses accept cash, checks, certain debit cards, American Express and a private label Costco credit card. Losses associated with dishonored
checks have been minimal, as members who have issued dishonored checks are identified and prevented from making further purchases until restitution is made.      We have direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand-name merchandise. We do not obtain a significant portion of merchandise from any one supplier. We have not experienced any difficulty in
obtaining sufficient quantities of merchandise, and believe that if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would be able to obtain alternative sources without substantial disruption of our business. We also purchase
selected private label merchandise, as long as quality and customer demand are comparable and the value to our members is greater as compared to name brand items.      Certain financial information for our segments and geographic areas is included in Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.   
  We report on a 52/53-week fiscal year, consisting of thirteen four-week periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first three
quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53-week year). The material seasonal impact in our operations is an increased level of net sales and earnings during
the winter holiday season. References to 2010, 2009, and 2008 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended August 29, 2010, August 30, 2009, and August 31, 2008, respectively.       Membership Policy       Our membership format is designed to reinforce customer loyalty and provide
a continuing source of membership fee revenue. Members can utilize their memberships at any Costco warehouse location in   
         5   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)    

any country. We have two primary types of members: Business and Gold Star (individual). Our member renewal rate, currently at 88% in the U.S. and Canada, is consistent with recent years.
Businesses, including individuals with a business license, retail sales license or other evidence of business existence, may become Business members. Business members generally pay an annual membership fee of $50 for the primary and household
membership card, with add-on membership cards available for an annual fee of $40 (including a free household card). Many of our business members also shop at Costco for their personal needs. Individual memberships (Gold Star memberships) are
available to individuals who do not qualify for a Business membership, for an annual fee of $50, which includes a household card.      Our
membership base was made up of the following (in thousands):       
    These numbers exclude approximately 2,900 cardholders of Costco
Mexico at the end of 2010, and 2,800 cardholders at the end of 2009 and 2008.      Executive membership is available to all members, with
the exception of Business Add-on members, in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and the United Kingdom for an annual fee of approximately $100. The program, in the U.S. and Canada, offers additional savings and benefits on various business and consumer
services, such as merchant credit-card processing, auto and home insurance, the Costco auto purchase program, and check printing services. The services are generally provided by third-parties and vary by country and state. In addition, Executive
members qualify for a 2% annual reward (which can be redeemed at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $500 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. At the end of 2010, 2009, and 2008, Executive members represented 36%, 33%,
and 30%, respectively, of our primary membership base that was eligible for the program. Executive members generally spend more than other members, and the percentage of our net sales attributable to these members continues to increase.   
   Labor       Our employee count approximated:
      
    These numbers exclude approximately 9,000 individuals who were
employed by Costco Mexico at the end of 2010, 2009, and 2008. Approximately 13,200 hourly employees in certain of our locations (all former Price Company locations) in five states are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. All
remaining employees are non-union. We consider our employee relations to be very good.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)    
     
        Competition    
  Our industry is highly competitive, based on factors such as price, merchandise quality and selection, warehouse location and member service. We
compete with 800 warehouse club locations across the U.S. and Canada (Wal-Mart s Sam s Club and BJ s Wholesale Club), and every major metropolitan area has multiple club operations. In addition, we compete with a wide range of
national and regional retailers and wholesalers, including supermarkets, supercenters, general merchandise chains, specialty chains, and gasoline stations, as well as electronic commerce businesses. Competitors such as Wal-Mart, Target, Kohl s
and Amazon are among our significant general merchandise retail competitors. We also compete with low-cost operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise, such as Lowe s, Home Depot, Office Depot, PetSmart, Staples, Trader
Joe s, Whole Foods, Best Buy and Barnes   Noble. Our international operations face similar competitors.       Regulation    
  Certain state laws require that we apply minimum markups to our selling prices for specific goods, such as tobacco products, alcoholic beverages,
and gasoline. While compliance with such laws may cause us to charge higher prices, other retailers are also typically governed by the same restrictions, and we believe that compliance with such laws currently in effect do not have a material
adverse effect on our operations.      Certain states, counties, and municipalities have enacted or proposed laws and regulations that would
prevent or restrict the operations or expansion plans of certain large retailers and warehouse clubs, including us, within their jurisdictions. If enacted, such laws and regulations could have a material adverse affect on our operations.   
   Intellectual Property    
  We believe that our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, proprietary processes, trade secrets, patents, trade dress and similar
intellectual property add significant value to our business and are important factors in our success. We have invested significantly in the development and protection of our well-recognized brands, including the Costco Wholesale      series of trademarks and our private label brand, Kirkland Signature     . Kirkland Signature products are premium products offered to our members at prices that are generally lower than those for national brand products. Kirkland Signature
products allow us to ensure our quality standards are met, while minimizing costs and differentiating our merchandise offerings from other retailers, and to generally earn higher margins. We expect that our private label items will increase their
share of our sales in the future. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection
may not be available in every country in which we operate.       Available Information    
  Our internet website is www.costco.com. We make available through the Investor Relations section of that site, free of charge, our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with, or furnishing such documents to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

Item 1 Business (Continued)          
        Executive Officers of the Registrant
      The following is a list of the names, ages, and positions of the executive officers of the Company. All executive officers have 25
or more years of service with the Company.       

Name    
      
     Position With Company    
      
   Executive Officer Since   

Age   

James D. Sinegal   
      
  Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Sinegal is a co-founder of the Company and has been a director since its inception. In February 2010, Mr. Sinegal relinquished his role as President of the
Company, which he had held since the Company s inception.  

1983  

74  

Jeffrey H. Brotman   
      
  Chairman of the Board. Mr. Brotman is a co-founder of the Company and has been a director since its inception.  

1983  

68  

W. Craig Jelinek   
      
  President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Jelinek has been President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since February 2010, when he also joined the Board of Directors. Prior to
that date, he was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising since 2004.  

1995  

58  

Richard A. Galanti   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Galanti has been a director of the Company since January 1995.  

1993  

54  

Paul G. Moulton   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer. He was Executive Vice President, Real Estate Development until March 2010.  

2001  

59  

Joseph P. Portera   
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Eastern and Canadian Divisions.  

1994  

58  

Douglas W. Schutt   
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising. He was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern and Midwest Division from 2004 to March
2010.  

2004  

51  

John D.
M   c   Kay   
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern and Midwest Division. He was Senior Vice President, General Manager, Northwest Region from 2000 to March 2010.  

2010  

53  

Thomas K. Walker   
      
  Executive Vice President, Construction, Distribution and Traffic.  

2004  

70  

Dennis R. Zook   
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Southwest and Mexico Divisions.  

1993  

61  
           The Company has adopted a code of ethics for
senior financial officers pursuant to section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Copies of the code are available free of charge by writing to Secretary, Costco Wholesale Corporation, 999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1A Risk Factors    
  The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These risks could
cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from results or events predicted by our forward-looking statements. Those statements may relate to such matters as sales growth, increases in comparable store sales,
cannibalization of existing locations by new openings, price changes, earnings performance, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, warehouse openings and closures, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, future financial
reporting, financing, margins, return on invested capital, strategic direction, expense control, membership renewal rates, shopping frequency, litigation impact and the demand for our products and services. You should read these risk factors in
conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report. There may be other
factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not presently perceive them to be material, that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations or statements. Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. You are advised to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the SEC.   
   We face strong competition from other retailers and warehouse club operators, which could negatively affect our financial performance.    
  The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for members, employees, sites, products and services and in other important respects with many
other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in foreign countries. We compete with other warehouse club operators, discount retailers, supermarkets, supercenter stores, retail and wholesale grocers, department, drug,
variety and specialty stores and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and warehouse club operators compete in a variety of ways, including
merchandise pricing, selection and availability, services, location, convenience, store hours, and price. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could negatively affect our financial
performance. Some competitors may have greater financial resources, better access to merchandise, and greater market penetration than we do.       General
economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.       Higher interest rates, energy
costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, healthcare costs, consumer debt levels, unsettled financial markets, weaknesses in housing and real estate markets, reduced consumer confidence, changes related to government fiscal and tax policies and
other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services or require a change in the mix of products we sell. Prices of certain commodity products, including gasoline and other food products, are historically volatile and
are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices
may affect our sales and profit margins. These factors can also increase our merchandise costs and/or selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and results. General economic conditions can also be
affected by the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism, or other significant national or international events.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
    Our growth strategy includes expanding our business, both in existing markets and in new markets.
      Our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire property, and build or lease new warehouses. We compete with
other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouses, as well as local community actions opposed to the location of our warehouses at specific sites
and the adoption of local laws restricting our operations and environmental regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and increase the cost of constructing, leasing and operating our warehouses. We also may have difficulty
negotiating leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms. Failure to manage these and other similar factors effectively will affect our ability to timely build or lease new warehouses, which may have a material adverse affect on our
future growth and profitability.      We seek to expand our business in existing markets in order to attain a greater overall market share.
Because our warehouses typically draw members from their local areas, a new warehouse may draw members away from our existing warehouses and adversely affect comparable warehouse sales performance and member traffic at those existing warehouses.
     We also intend to open warehouses in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include difficulties in attracting
members due to a lack of familiarity with us, attracting members of other wholesale club operators currently operating in the new market, our lack of familiarity with local member preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. In addition,
entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. In new markets, we cannot ensure that our new warehouses will be profitably deployed; as a result, our
future profitability may be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected.       We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our United
States and Canada operations.       Our financial and operational performance is highly dependent on our United States and Canada
operations, which comprised 92% of consolidated net sales in 2010 and 93% in 2009, and 89% of operating income in 2010 and 92% in 2009. Within the United States, we are highly dependent on our California operations, which comprised 26% and 27% of
consolidated net sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our California market in general, has a larger percentage of higher volume warehouses as compared to our other markets. Any substantial slowing or sustained decline in these operations could
materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Declines in financial performance of our United States operations, particularly in California, and our Canada operations could arise from, among other things: failing to meet targets
for warehouse openings; declines in actual or estimated comparable warehouse sales growth rates and expectations; negative trends in operating expenses, including increased labor, healthcare and energy costs; cannibalizing existing locations with
new warehouses; shifts in sales mix toward lower gross margin products; changes or uncertainties in economic conditions in our markets; and failing consistently to provide high quality products and innovative new products to retain our existing
member base and attract new members.       We depend on vendors to supply us with quality merchandise at the right prices in a timely manner.
      We depend heavily on our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We have no assurances of
continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to us. Member demands may lead to out-of-stock positions of our merchandise, leading to loss of
sales and profits.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
       We purchase our merchandise
from numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and importers and have thousands of vendor relationships. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of key vendors could negatively affect us. We may not be able to
develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive than those from existing vendors. Because of our efforts to adhere to high quality standards for which available
supply may be limited, particularly for certain food items, the large volume we demand may not be consistently available.      Our suppliers
are subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, supply constraints, and general economic and political conditions, that could limit their ability to timely
provide us with acceptable merchandise. For these or other reasons, one or more of our suppliers might not adhere to our quality control, legal or regulatory standards. These deficiencies may delay or preclude delivery of merchandise to us and might
not be identified before we sell such merchandise to our members. This failure could lead to litigation and recalls, which could damage our reputation and our brands, increase our costs, and otherwise hurt our business.   
  In addition, the United States  foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, security and safety regulations,
trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control and could
adversely impact our sourcing of goods.       We depend on our depot operations to effectively and efficiently supply product to our warehouses.
      We depend on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, primarily through our depots. Although we believe that
our receiving and distribution process is efficient, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or other catastrophic events, labor shortages and disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the
delivery of merchandise to our warehouses, which could adversely affect sales and the satisfaction of our members.       We may not timely identify or
effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.       It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services our members will demand. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and
consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those relating to sustainability of product sources) and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our
members, the demand for our products and services and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which could result in additional markdowns and
reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on margins and operating income.       Our failure to maintain positive membership
loyalty and brand recognition could adversely affect our financial results.       Damage to our brands or reputation may negatively impact
comparable warehouse sales, lower employee morale and productivity, diminish member trust, and reduce member renewal rates and, accordingly, membership fee revenues, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
        Changes in accounting standards and
subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results.       Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including, but
not limited to, revenue recognition, sales returns reserves, impairment of long-lived assets and warehouse closing costs, inventories, self-insurance, income taxes, unclaimed property laws and litigation, and other contingent liabilities are highly
complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our
reported or expected financial performance. Provisions for losses related to self-insured risks are generally based upon independent actuarially determined estimates. The assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses can be
highly unpredictable, which can affect the liability recorded for such claims. For example, variability in inflation rates of health care costs inherent in these claims can affect the amounts realized. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were enacted. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. We expect our healthcare costs
to increase, but not materially, as a result of this legislation. Similarly, changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well as a change in the nature and method of how claims are settled can impact ultimate costs. Although our estimates of
liabilities incurred do not anticipate significant changes in historical trends for these variables, any changes could have a considerable effect upon future claim costs and currently recorded liabilities and could materially impact our consolidated
financial statements.       Changes in Tax Rates       We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operate. As the tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we
operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Additionally, any change in the enacted tax rates, any adverse outcome in connection with any income tax audits in any jurisdiction, including transfer pricing disputes, or
any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.       Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could make our financial results inaccurate or untimely.       Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes: maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that our receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance
with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to and cannot provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain an effective
system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
    Our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting,
regulatory, political and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.       Our international operations are growing. Future operating results internationally could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many beyond our control and similar to those we face in the United States.
These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, regulatory constraints, currency regulations and exchange rates, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Other factors that may
impact international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws and regulations of foreign governments and the United States (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act),
agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have been historically less stable than the United States. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the
costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future
costs or on future cash flows from our international operations.       Market expectations for our financial performance is high.    
  We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in
meeting these expectations, including our comparable warehouse sales growth rates, margins, earnings and earnings per share or new warehouse openings, could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock
repurchase policies.       We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both
our primary and back-up systems could harm our business.       Although we believe that we have independent, redundant, and primary and
secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is important that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are
subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and errors by our
employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material
interruption in our computer systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The costs, potential problems, and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the
efficiency of our operations in the short term. These initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or provide them in a delayed or more costly manner.       Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could unfavorably affect our financial performance.       Natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes, particularly in California or in Washington state, where our centralized operating systems and administrative personnel are located, could unfavorably affect
our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of one or more warehouses or depots, the temporary
        
   13   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
   
lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of
goods from overseas, delays in the delivery of goods to our depots or warehouses within a country in which we operate and the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our warehouses. Public health issues, such as a potential H1N1 flu
pandemic (swine flu), whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels. We may be required to
suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These events could also reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible
to receive products from suppliers.       We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, regional, local and international laws and regulations
relating to the use, storage, discharge, and disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, and other environmental matters.       Any failure to comply with these laws could result in costs to satisfy environmental compliance, remediation or compensatory requirements, or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by
governmental agencies or courts that could adversely affect our operations.       Factors associated with climate change could adversely affect our
business.       We use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline, and electricity in our distribution and sale operations. Increased government
regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased compliance costs and legislation or regulation affecting energy inputs could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect
our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience. We also sell a substantial amount of gasoline, the demand for which could be impacted by concerns about climate change and which also could face increased
regulation. Climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions, such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Extreme weather conditions increase our costs, and damage
resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured.       We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, and while we cannot predict
the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes may unfavorably affect our operations or increase our costs.       We are or may become involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, including grand jury investigations, other government investigations, consumer, employment, tort and other litigation (see discussion of
Legal Proceedings in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and
other proceedings commenced by governmental authorities. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could unfavorably affect our operations or could require us
to pay substantial amounts of money. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management s attention and resources. Our business requires compliance with a great variety of
laws and regulations. Failure to achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings, and lead to damage awards, fines and penalties.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
    We are subject to the risks of selling unsafe products.    
  If our merchandise offerings, including food and prepared food products for human consumption, drugs and childrens  products, do not meet or
are perceived not to meet applicable safely standards or our members  expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. The sale of these items involves the risk of
injury to our members. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the
growing, manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation phases. Our vendors are generally contractually required to comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all
safety standards. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and work to comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related
illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims, lawsuits, or government investigations relating to such matters, resulting in costly product recalls and other liabilities. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not
fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential members and our corporate and brand image and these effects could be long
term.       Our success depends on the continued contributions of management and on our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified employees.
      Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of members of our senior management and other key
operations, merchandising and administrative personnel, and the loss of any such person(s) could have a material adverse effect. Other than an annual agreement with our CEO, Mr. Sinegal, we have no employment agreements with our officers. We
must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of highly qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and
healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly
qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company does not maintain key man insurance.   
   If we do not maintain the privacy and security of member-related information, we could damage our reputation with members, incur substantial additional costs
and become subject to litigation.       We receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our members. In addition, our
online operations at www.costco.com and www.costco.ca depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems or those of other
business partners that results in our members  personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our members and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition
and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems and could result in
a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.      Additionally, the use of individually identifiable data by
our business and our business associates is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems
        
   15   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued)          
   
changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our
reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal risk as a result of non-compliance.         Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments         None .    
     
   16   

Table of Contents  

      Item 2 Properties        Warehouse Properties       At August 29, 2010, we operated 540 membership warehouses:
      NUMBER OF WAREHOUSES        

(1)  
    77 of the 117 leases are land-leases only, where Costco owns the building.      
  The following schedule shows warehouse openings (net of closings) by region for the past five fiscal years and expected warehouse openings (net of
closings) through December 31, 2010:       
    The 32 warehouses operated by Costco Mexico, under our oversight, at the end of 2010 are not included in the
above tables.      At the end of 2010, our warehouses contained approximately 77.3 million square feet of operating floor space:
60.2 million in the United States, 10.8 million in Canada and 6.3 million in other international locations, excluding Mexico.      Our executive offices are located in Issaquah, Washington and occupy approximately 581,000 square feet. We operated eight regional offices in the United States, two regional offices in Canada and five regional
offices internationally at the end of 2010, containing approximately 334,000 square feet. Additionally, we operate regional cross-docking facilities (depots) for the consolidation and distribution of most shipments to the warehouses, and various
processing, packaging, and other facilities to support ancillary and other businesses. At the end of 2010, we operated 12 depots in the United States, four in Canada and three internationally, excluding Mexico, consisting of approximately
7.6 million square feet.         Item 3 Legal Proceedings    
  See discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.   
     Item 4 Removed and Reserved          
   17   

Table of Contents  

      PART II          Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
   Market Information and Dividend Policy       Our
common stock is traded on the National Market tier of NASDAQ under the symbol  COST.  On October 1, 2010, we had 8,286 stockholders of record.      The following table shows the quarterly high and low closing sale prices as reported by NASDAQ for each quarter during the last two fiscal years and the quarterly cash dividend declared per share of our common
stock during the periods indicated.       
    Payment of future dividends is subject to
declaration by the Board of Directors. Factors considered in determining the size of the dividends are our profitability and expected capital needs. Subject to these qualifications, we presently expect to continue to pay dividends on a quarterly
basis.       Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (dollars in millions, except per share data)    
  The following table sets forth information on our common stock repurchase program activity for the 16-week fourth quarter of fiscal 2010:

(1)  
    Monthly information is presented by reference to our fiscal periods during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.      
   
     Equity Compensation Plans    
  Information related to our equity compensation plans is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement. The Proxy Statement will be filed
with the SEC within 120 days of the end of our fiscal year.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6 Selected Financial Data    
  The following table sets forth certain information concerning our consolidated financial condition, operating results, and key operating metrics for
the dates and periods indicated. This information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in Item 7 and our consolidated financial statements
included in Item 8.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA        (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)        

(1)  
    Certain reclassifications have been made to prior years to conform to the presentation adopted in the current year. See further information in Note 1 of Item
8 of this Report.          

(2)  
    Includes net sales at warehouses open greater than one year, including relocated facilities.      

(3)  
    Excludes warehouses operated in Mexico through a 50% owned joint venture.      

(4)  
    Includes warehouse relocations and the closure in July 2009 of two Costco Home locations.      
     
   19   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  (dollars in millions,
except per share and warehouse number data)         OVERVIEW       Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to August 31. References to 2010, 2009, and 2008 relate to the 52-week years ended August 29, 2010, August 30, 2009, and August 31, 2008,
respectively. Certain percentages presented are calculated using actual results prior to rounding. Unless otherwise noted, references to net income relate to net income attributable to Costco.   
  Key items for 2010 included:       

Net sales increased 9.1% from the prior year to $76,255, driven by a 7% increase in comparable sales (sales in warehouses open for at least one year,
including relocated warehouses) and sales at the 13 new warehouses (14 opened and one closed due to relocation) in 2010. Net sales were positively impacted by the year-over-year increase in the price of gasoline and by the strengthening of certain
foreign currency exchange rates;          

Membership fees increased 10.3% to $1,691; however, excluding the $27 charge recorded in 2009 related to a litigation settlement, membership fees increased
8.4%, due to new membership sign-ups and increased penetration of the higher-fee Executive Membership program;          

Gross margin (net sales less merchandise costs) as a percentage of net sales increased two basis points over the prior year;      

Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses as a percentage of net sales improved 10 basis points over the prior year;

The Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $0.18 to $0.205 per share;      

The Board of Directors appointed W. Craig Jelinek as Costco s President and Chief Operating Officer and elected him a director. Jim Sinegal will continue
as Chief Executive Officer; and          

In May 2010, we announced the retirement of Dick DiCerchio, as our Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, effective June 4, 2010.
        We believe that the most important driver of increasing our profitability is sales growth, particularly comparable
sales growth. Comparable sales growth is achieved through increasing the frequency with which our members shop and the amounts they spend on each visit. Sales comparisons can also be particularly influenced by two factors that are beyond our
control, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates (with respect to the consolidation of the results of our international operations) and changes in the cost of gasoline and associated competitive conditions (primarily impacting domestic
operations). The higher our comparable sales not associated with currency fluctuations the more we can leverage certain of our selling, general and administrative expenses, reducing them as a percentage of sales and enhancing profitability.
Generating comparable sales growth is foremost a question of making available to our members the right merchandise at the right prices, a skill that we believe we have repeatedly demonstrated over the long term. Another substantial factor in sales
growth is the health of the economies in which we do business, especially the United States. Adverse economic conditions negatively impacted spending by our customers during 2009 and 2010, and that negative impact may continue. Sales growth and our
gross margin are also impacted by our competition, which is vigorous and widespread, including other warehouse clubs, discount, department, drug, variety and   
         20   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
specialty stores, and supermarkets, as well as internet retailers. While we cannot control or reliably predict general economic health or changes in competition, we believe that we have been
successful historically in adapting our business to these changes, such as through adjustments to our pricing and to our merchandise mix, including increasing the penetration of our private label items. Our philosophy is not to focus in the short
term on maximizing prices that our members can be charged but to maintain what we believe is a perception among our members of our  pricing authority  consistently providing the most competitive values. This may cause us, for example,
to absorb increases in merchandise costs at certain times rather than immediately passing them along to our members, negatively impacting gross margin.      We also achieve sales growth by opening new warehouses and relocating existing warehouses to larger facilities. As our warehouse base grows and available and desirable potential sites become more difficult to
secure, square footage growth becomes a comparatively less substantial component of growth, but the negative aspects of such growth (including lower initial operating profitability relative to existing warehouses and cannibalization of sales at
existing warehouse when openings occur in existing markets) are ameliorated. Our rate of square footage growth is higher in foreign markets, due to the smaller base in those markets, and we expect that to continue.   
  Our financial performance also depends heavily on our ability to control costs. While we believe that we have achieved successes in this area
historically, some significant costs are partially outside our control, most particularly health care expenses. With respect to expenses relating to the compensation of our employees, our philosophy is not to seek to minimize the wages and benefits
that they earn. Rather, we believe that achieving our longer-term objectives of reducing turnover and enhancing employee satisfaction requires maintaining compensation levels that are better than the industry average for much of our workforce. This
may cause us, for example, to absorb costs that other employers might seek to pass through to their workforces. Because our business is operated on very low margins, modest changes in various items in the income statement, particularly gross margin
and selling, general and administrative expenses, can have substantial impacts on net income.       Results of Operations    
    Net Sales         
     2010 vs. 2009    
   Net Sales       Net sales increased 9.1% during
2010 compared to 2009. The $6,366 increase was comprised of a $4,871 increase in comparable sales and the remainder primarily from sales at new warehouses opened during 2010 and 2009.   
  Foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, Korea, and Japan, strengthened against the U.S. dollar, which positively impacted net sales during 2010
by approximately $1,570 (225 basis points). Net sales were also positively impacted by gasoline price inflation during 2010 by approximately $895 (128 basis points), which resulted from a 17% increase in the average sales price per gallon.
        
   21   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
       Our sales results continue
to be negatively impacted by general economic conditions, and those conditions may continue to have a significant adverse impact on spending by our members. We believe, however, that due to the nature of our business model, we are better positioned
than many retailers to compete in such an environment.       Comparable Sales       Comparable sales increased 7% in 2010 and were positively impacted primarily by an increase in shopping frequency. Strengthening foreign currencies positively impacted comparable sales by approximately $1,510 (217
basis points) in 2010. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted comparable sales results by approximately $882 (126 basis points) during 2010. Reported comparable sales growth includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established
warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations).       2009 vs. 2008        Net Sales       Our 2009 sales results, particularly in hardlines and softlines, were negatively
impacted by general economic conditions. Net sales decreased 1.5% during 2009 compared to 2008. The $1,088 decrease was comprised of a $2,590 decrease in comparable sales, partially offset by an increase of $1,502 primarily from sales at new
warehouses opened during 2009 and 2008. Our sales were also impacted by a lower number of warehouse openings year-over-year.      Foreign
currencies, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Korea, weakened against the U.S. dollar, which negatively impacted net sales during 2009 by approximately $2,421 (341 basis points). Net sales were also negatively impacted by gasoline
price deflation during 2009 by approximately $2,164 (305 basis points), which resulted from a 30% decline in the average sales price per gallon.   
   Comparable Sales       Comparable sales decreased
4% in 2009. Weakening foreign currencies negatively impacted comparable sales by approximately $2,339 (333 basis points) in 2009. Gasoline price deflation negatively impacted comparable sales results by approximately $2,113 (298 basis points) during
2009. Comparable sales were negatively impacted by a decline in the average amount spent (after adjustment for gasoline price deflation and measured in local currencies), partially offset by an increase in shopping frequency. Reported comparable
sales growth includes the negative impact of cannibalization.        Membership Fees     

22   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
        2010 vs. 2009    
  Membership fees increased 10.3% in 2010 compared to 2009. Membership fees in 2010 were positively impacted due to the increased penetration of our
higher-fee Executive Membership program, the continued benefit of membership sign-ups at warehouses opened in 2009 and 2008, a 2009 $27 charge to membership fees related to a litigation settlement concerning our membership renewal policy, and the
additional membership sign-ups at the 13 new warehouses opened in 2010 (14 opened and one closed due to a relocation). Our member renewal rate, currently at 88% in the U.S. and Canada, is consistent with recent years.   
  Foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, Korea, and Japan, strengthened against the U.S. dollar in 2010, which positively impacted membership
fees by approximately $36.       2009 vs. 2008       Membership fees increased 1.8% in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase was primarily due to membership sign-ups at the 15 new warehouses opened in 2009 (19 opened, two closed due to relocations, and two closed
Costco Home locations), the continued benefit of membership sign-ups at warehouses opened in 2008, and increased penetration of our higher-fee Executive Membership program. This increase was negatively impacted by the $27 charge for the litigation
settlement discussed above, the weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Korea, which negatively impacted membership fees during 2009 by approximately $50, and a lower number of
warehouse openings year-over-year. Our member renewal rate at the end of 2009 was 87% in the U.S. and Canada.        Gross Margin     
   
     2010 vs. 2009    
  Gross margin, as a percent of net sales, increased two basis points compared to 2009. The core merchandise gross margin, when expressed as a percent
of core merchandise sales and not total net sales, increased 25 basis points year-over-year, with all categories showing increases. However, the increased sales penetration of the lower margin gasoline business caused this increase to be only six
basis points when expressed as a percent of total net sales. Warehouse ancillary businesses gross margins increased by three basis points as a percent of total net sales. In addition, gross margin comparisons were negatively impacted by five basis
points due to a favorable LIFO adjustment in 2009 compared to no adjustment in 2010. Increased penetration of the Executive Membership two-percent reward program and increased spending by Executive Members negatively affected gross margin by two
basis points.      Foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, Korea, and Japan, strengthened against the U.S. dollar, which positively
impacted gross margin for 2010 by approximately $183.   
         23   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
        2009 vs. 2008    
  Gross margin, as a percent of net sales, increased 28 basis points compared to 2008. This increase was primarily related to a net 18 basis point
increase in our core merchandise departments, primarily in food and sundries, partially offset by a decrease in softlines, and a net seven basis point increase from our warehouse ancillary businesses, primarily our gasoline and pharmacy departments.
The majority of this gross margin improvement was due to our lower margin gas business having lower sales penetration, resulting from the decline in the average selling price per gallon. Increased sales penetration of the Executive Membership
two-percent reward program negatively affected gross margin by six basis points. In addition, gross margin was favorably impacted by nine basis points due to reversing the $32 LIFO reserve established in the prior year as we experienced net
deflation, year-over-year, in the cost of our merchandise inventories.      Foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom,
and Korea, weakened against the U.S. dollar, which negatively impacted gross margin in 2009 by approximately $258.        Selling, General and
Administrative Expenses         
     2010 vs. 2009    
  SG A expenses, as a percent of net sales, improved ten basis points compared to 2009. If the effect of gasoline price inflation on net sales in
2010 is excluded, these expenses increased three basis points compared to 2009. Warehouse operating costs, excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, increased seven basis points, primarily due to higher employee benefit costs, particularly
employee healthcare and workers  compensation. SG A expense comparisons were positively impacted by six basis points related to: the recovery of amounts expensed in fiscal 2007 and 2008 on behalf of certain employees in Canada to cover
adverse tax consequences resulting from our previously announced stock option investigation; and a charge recorded in 2009 to write down the net realizable value of the cash surrender value of employee life insurance contracts with no comparable
charge this year.      Foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, Korea, and Japan, strengthened against the U.S. dollar, which negatively
impacted SG A for 2010 by approximately $140.       2009 vs. 2008       SG A expenses, as a percent of net sales, increased 58 basis points compared to 2008. Increased warehouse operating and central administrative costs, as a percent of net sales, negatively impacted SG A by
approximately 56 basis points, resulting primarily from lower sales levels and higher employee health care costs. Higher stock-based compensation expense had a negative impact of one basis point. In addition, we recorded an adjustment to the net
realizable value of the cash surrender value of employee life insurance contracts, which negatively impacted SG A, as a percent of net sales, by two basis points. The net realizable value of the insurance contracts is largely based on
  
         24   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
changes in investment assets underlying the policies and is subject to conditions generally affecting equity and debt markets. In 2008, we recorded a $16 reserve in connection with a legal
settlement, which positively impacted the comparison to current year s SG A expense, as a percent of net sales, by two basis points.      SG A expenses, as a percent of net sales, for 2009 were adversely impacted by the decrease in the price of gasoline, as it produced a decline in sales dollars without a comparative reduction in labor or other
administrative costs. Foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Korea, weakened against the U.S. dollar, which positively impacted SG A for 2009 by approximately $217.   
    Preopening Expenses         
    Preopening expenses include costs incurred
for startup operations related to new warehouses and the expansion of operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses can vary due to the timing of the warehouse opening relative to our year-end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, and
whether the opening is in an existing, new, or international market. The 2009 preopening expense included costs related to several international warehouses that opened in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.   
    Provision for Impaired Assets and Closing Costs, Net         
    This provision primarily includes costs related to: impairment of long-lived assets; future lease obligations of
warehouses that have been closed or relocated to new facilities; accelerated depreciation, based on the shortened useful life through the expected closing date on buildings to be demolished or sold and that are not otherwise impaired; and gains and
losses resulting from the sale of real property, largely comprised of former warehouse locations.       2010 vs. 2009    
  The net provision for impaired assets and closing costs was $8 in 2010, compared to $17 in 2009. The provision in 2010 included charges of $6 for
warehouse closing expenses and impairment charges of $2.       2009 vs. 2008       The net provision for impaired assets and closing costs was $17 in 2009, compared to a nominal amount in 2008. The provision in 2009 included charges of $9 for warehouse closing expenses, and impairment charges of
$8, primarily related to the closing of our two Costco Home locations in July 2009. The impairment charge in 2008 primarily related to a warehouse in Michigan that was demolished and rebuilt.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   At the end of both 2010 and 2009, the reserve for warehouse closing costs was $5, and primarily
related to future lease obligations.        Interest Expense         
    Interest expense primarily relates to our
$900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes (2007 Senior Notes) issued in 2007.        Interest Income and Other, Net     
   
     2010 vs. 2009    
  The decrease in interest income is due to lower interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances. Interest income
also includes a $12 other-than-temporary impairment loss recognized on certain securities within our investment portfolio in 2009. No impairment was recognized in 2010.      The increase in earnings of affiliates and other is primarily due to an increase in earnings from our 50% owned joint-venture in Mexico. Costco Mexico s earnings increased due to stronger sales and the Mexican
peso strengthening against the U.S. dollar. The net gain on foreign currency transactions was $13 in 2010, but was not significant in 2009. These amounts generally relate to the difference between the foreign exchange rate in effect when title to
merchandise inventory is transferred and the rate at the time of payment. In addition, there was a favorable $1 mark-to-market adjustment in 2010 compared to a negative $5 adjustment in 2009, related to our forward foreign exchange contracts. See
Derivatives section for more information.       2009 vs. 2008       The decrease in interest income was largely due to lower interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances resulting from a change in policy to invest primarily in U.S. government
and agency securities, which earn lower interest rates. In addition, we recognized $12 of other-than-temporary impairment losses on certain securities within our investment portfolio in 2009 compared to an impairment loss of $5 in 2008. The decrease
in the earnings of affiliates was primarily attributable to lower earnings by our investment in Costco Mexico. Costco Mexico s earnings were lower in 2009, primarily due to the peso weakening against the U.S. dollar. In addition, there was a
negative $5 mark-to-market adjustment in 2009 compared to a favorable $6 adjustment in 2008, related to our forward foreign exchange contracts.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
     Provision for Income Taxes     
   
    The decline in the effective tax rate from
2009 to 2010 is primarily attributable to a change in the mix of earnings between domestic and international operations. The 2009 effective tax rates also include the unfavorable impact of a write-down on investments that were non-deductible for tax
purposes.      The lower tax rate in 2008 was primarily attributable to discrete benefits recognized during the year.   
    Net Income Attributable to Costco (Net Income)         
     2010 vs. 2009    
  Net income for 2010 increased to $1,303, or $2.92 per diluted share, from $1,086, or $2.47 per diluted share, during 2009, representing an 18%
increase in diluted net income per share. As previously discussed, foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, Korea and Japan, strengthened against the U.S. dollar, which positively impacted net income for 2010 by approximately $61 after-tax, or
$0.14 per diluted share. Various factors, discussed in detail above (including sales, membership fees, gross margin, and selling, general and administrative expenses), contributed to the increase in net income for 2010.   
   2009 vs. 2008       Net income for 2009 decreased
to $1,086, or $2.47 per diluted share, from $1,283, or $2.89 per diluted share, during 2008, representing a 15% decrease in diluted net income per share. As previously discussed, foreign currencies, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom and
Korea, weakened against the U.S. dollar, which negatively impacted net income for 2009 by approximately $83 after-tax, or $0.19 per diluted share. Various factors, discussed in detail above (including sales, membership fees, gross margin, and
selling, general and administrative expenses), contributed to the decrease in net income for 2009.       LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    
  The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets at the end of 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions, except per share data):

27   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations and cash and
cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $4,749 and $3,727 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively. Of these balances, approximately $862 and $758 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively, represented debit and credit card
receivables, primarily related to sales in the week prior to the end of our fiscal year.      Net cash provided by operating activities
totaled $2,780 in 2010 compared to $2,092 in 2009. This net increase of $688 was primarily attributable to a $371 decrease in our net investment in merchandise inventories (merchandise inventories less accounts payable), an increase in net income of
$224, and a $141 increase from the change in our other current operating assets and liabilities.      Net cash used in investing activities
totaled $2,015 in 2010 compared to $1,101 in 2009, an increase of $914. This increase relates primarily to a $1,113 decrease in cash provided by the net investment in short-term investments, partially offset by a $195 decrease in cash used for
purchase of property and equipment.      Net cash used in financing activities totaled $719 in 2010 compared to $439 in 2009, an increase of
$280. This increase was primarily attributable to a $482 increase in cash used to repurchase common stock, a $78 increase in repayments of long-term debt and a $42 increase in dividends paid. These were partially offset by a $124 increase in the net
proceeds from stock-based awards and, a $116 increase in the net proceeds from short-term borrowings.      The effect of exchange rate
changes, increased cash by $11 in 2010, compared to a decrease of $14 in 2009. This increase was primarily due to the strengthening of foreign currencies, primarily in Canada, Korea, and Japan during 2010.   
    Dividends        In April 2010, our Board
of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.18 to $0.205 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2010 totaled $0.77 per share, as compared to $0.68 per share in 2009.        Contractual Obligations        Our commitments at year-end to make future payments under
contractual obligations were as follows, as of August 29, 2010:       
       
   28   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          

(1)  
    Includes open merchandise purchase orders.          

(2)  
    Includes contractual interest payments.          

(3)  
    Operating lease obligations exclude amounts commonly referred to as common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $173 to reflect
sub-lease income.          

(4)  
    The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing
for cancellation without significant penalty.          

(5)  
    Consists of $26 in asset retirement obligations, $9 in deferred compensation obligations and includes $3 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to
uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $38 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments.           Expansion Plans        Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land,
buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is also required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans
are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,600 during fiscal 2011 for real estate, construction, remodeling, and equipment for warehouses and related operations. These expenditures are expected
to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.   
  We plan to open up to 31 new warehouses in 2011, including one to two relocations of existing warehouses to larger and better-located facilities.
       Additional Equity Investments in Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures        Our investments in the Costco Mexico joint venture and in other unconsolidated joint ventures that are less than majority owned are accounted for under the equity method. We did not make any capital contributions
to Costco Mexico (a 50%-owned joint venture) in 2010, 2009, or 2008.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
     Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs     

(1)  
    The U.S. parent company, Costco Wholesale Corporation, guarantees this entity s credit facility.      

(2)  
    Obligations under this facility are fully cash-collateralized by the subsidiary.      

(3)  
    The bank may cancel or restrict availability under this facility with 45-days written notice.      
     
   30   

Table of Contents  

Item 7   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          

(1)  
    The U.S. parent company, Costco Wholesale Corporation, guarantees this entity s credit facility.      

(2)  
    Obligations under this facility are fully cash-collateralized by the subsidiary.      
  For those entities with multi-purpose lines, any issuance of either letters of credit or short-term borrowings will result in a corresponding
decrease in available credit. Our letter of credit facilities consisted of the following at August 29, 2010 and August 30, 2009:       

31   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
     Financing Activities        In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In November 2009, our
Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $33 related to the 0.88% promissory notes due November 2009, originally issued in November 2002.   
  In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten-year term loan in the amount of $35, with a variable rate of interest of Yen TIBOR
(6-month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.84% and 0.95% at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi-annually in December and June and principal is due in June 2018.   
  In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $77, bearing interest at 2.695%.
Interest is payable semi-annually, and principal is due in October 2017. We guarantee all of the promissory notes issued by our Japanese subsidiary.      In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 (2017 Notes) at a discount of $6 (together the
2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the
terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior
Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the
principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes.      In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%,
resulting in gross proceeds to the Company of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 943,000 shares of Costco Common Stock shares at an initial conversion price of $22.71. Holders of the Zero Coupon Notes
may require us to purchase the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of purchase) in August 2012. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to
date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of August 29, 2010, $859 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders to shares of Costco Common Stock, of which the principal converted during 2010, 2009 and
2008 is detailed in the table below:       
      Derivatives     
  We are exposed to foreign currency exchange-rate fluctuations in the normal course of our business, which we manage, in part, through the use of
forward foreign exchange contracts seeking to hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a foreign   
     
   32   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
currency. The contracts are intended primarily to hedge U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to
mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit-risk-related contingent features.   
  We seek to manage the counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established
banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. The contracts are limited to less than one year. See Note 1 and Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part
II, Item 8 of this Report, for additional information related to these contracts.      We are exposed to fluctuations in energy prices,
particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed-price contracts for approximately 26% of our warehouses and other facilities in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable-priced contracts
for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations on an index basis. These contracts generally qualify for treatment as normal purchases or normal sales and require no mark-to-market adjustment.   
    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements        With
the exception of our operating leases, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements.   
    Stock Repurchase Programs        In
September and November of 2007, our Board of Directors approved $300 and $1,000, respectively, of stock repurchases, which expire in August 2010 and November 2010. In July 2008, our Board of Directors approved an additional $1,000, which expires in
July 2011, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $6,800.      During 2010, we
repurchased 9,943,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $57.14 per share, totaling approximately $568. During 2009, we repurchased 895,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $63.84 per share, totaling approximately $57. The
remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $1,434 at the end of 2010, $434 of which expires in November 2010. Purchases are made from time-to-time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and
pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act.        Critical
Accounting Policies        The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to
review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets, warehouse closing costs, insurance/self-insurance liabilities,
and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
    Revenue Recognition       We generally recognize sales, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of
merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in
merchandise returns. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis.      We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory
risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not
possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales.      Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the
one-year membership period.      Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a
maximum of $500 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales, with the related liability being classified within other current liabilities. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are
computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non-redemptions based on historical data.       Investments    
  Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a
methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the
duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry
and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is
established. If market, industry, and/or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments.       Merchandise Inventories    
  Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method of accounting, and are
stated using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method of accounting and are stated using the
first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the expected annual
effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end. At the end of 2008, due to overall net inflationary trends, merchandise   
     
   34   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
   
inventories valued at LIFO were lower than the FIFO value, resulting in a $32 charge to merchandise costs. During 2009, due to overall deflationary trends, we recorded a $32 benefit to
merchandise costs to adjust inventories valued at LIFO. At the end of 2010 and 2009, merchandise inventories valued at LIFO approximated FIFO after considering the lower of cost or market principle.   
  We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted
periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year.      Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration
received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches.       Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Warehouse Closing costs       We periodically evaluate our
long-lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors
exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then-current fair market value.      We provide estimates for warehouse
closing costs for leased and owned locations to be closed or relocated. A considerable amount of judgment is involved in determining any impairment or our net liability, particularly related to the estimated sales price of owned locations and the
potential sublease income at leased locations. These estimates are based on real estate conditions in the markets and our experience in those markets. We make assumptions about the average period of time it would take to sublease the location and
the amount of potential sublease income for each leased location. We reassess our liability each quarter and adjust our liability accordingly when our estimates change.       Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities       We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance
mechanisms, including a wholly-owned captive insurance entity and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers  compensation, general liability, property damage, director and officers  liability,
vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other
actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends.       Income Taxes       At the beginning of 2008, we adopted authoritative guidance related to uncertain
tax positions, which sets out criteria for the use of judgment in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the
interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with
uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we
reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data)  (Continued)          
    Recent Accounting Pronouncements       See discussion of Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.         Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       We are exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments
for trading purposes.       Interest Rate Risk       Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. Government and Agency debt securities, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured corporate notes, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve
principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short-term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. A revised investment policy
was approved in December 2007 by our Board of Directors, limiting future investments to direct U.S. Government and Government Agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. Government and Government Agency
obligations, and U.S. Government and Government Agency Money Market funds.      The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent
with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. Government and Government Agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage-backed
securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AAA.      All of our foreign subsidiaries  investments are
primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers  acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its
investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations.      Because most of
our investments in cash and cash equivalents are short-term, interest rate changes are not likely be material to our financial statements. Based on our overnight investments and bank balances within cash and cash equivalents at the end of 2010 and
2009, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $23 and $24 (pre-tax), respectively, to interest income on an annual basis. For those investments that are classified as
available-for-sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders  equity in accumulated other comprehensive income.   
  The nature and amount of our long and short-term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As
of the end of 2010, our fixed-rate long-term debt included: $41 principal amount at maturity of 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes carried at $32; $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes carried at $899; and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at
$1,096, and additional notes totaling $78. Additionally, our variable rate long-term debt included a 0.35% over Yen Tibor (6-month) Term Loan of $35. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed-rate debt and may affect the
interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See         
   36   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)    

Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long and short-term debt.   
   Foreign Currency-Exchange Risk       Our foreign
subsidiaries conduct limited transactions in their non-functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking
to hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a foreign currency.      As of
August 29, 2010, and August 30, 2009, we held forward foreign exchange contracts with a notional amount of $225 and $183, respectively. At the end of 2010 and 2009, fair value assets of $1 and $2, respectively, and a fair value liabilities
of $3 and $4, respectively, were recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non-functional currency exchange rates at August 29, 2010 and August 30, 2009 would
have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $23 and $18, respectively.         Item 8 Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data       Financial statements of Costco are as follows:   
   
     Management s Report on the Consolidated Financial
Statements       Our management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the accompanying consolidated financial
statements and the related financial information. The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include certain amounts that are based on estimates and informed
judgments. Our management also prepared the related financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is responsible for its accuracy and consistency with the financial statements.   
  The consolidated financial statements have been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who conducted their audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The independent registered public accounting firm s responsibility is to express an opinion as to the fairness with which such financial statements
present our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.        
 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       None.
        
   37   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9A Controls and Procedures    
   Disclosure Controls and Procedures       As of the
end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we performed an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of our disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act)). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the
period covered by this Annual Report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective.      There has been no change in our internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during our most recently completed fiscal year that has materially affected or is reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over
financial reporting.      The certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as Exhibit 31.1 to
this report.       Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting    
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and the dispositions of our assets;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that our transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made
only in accordance with appropriate authorizations; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial
statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.      Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of August 29, 2010, using the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on its assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
August 29, 2010.       /S/ J AMES  D. S INEGAL     
      James D. Sinegal   
  Chief Executive Officer       /S/
R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI            Richard A. Galanti      Executive Vice President   
  Chief Financial Officer   
     Item 9B Other Information       None.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

      PART III          Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       The information required by this Item concerning our directors and nominees for director is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Proposal 1: Election of Directors, 
 Directors,   Committees of the Board  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in Costco s Proxy Statement for its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on January 27, 2011
( Proxy Statement ). The Proxy Statement will be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the end of our fiscal year.   
     Item 11 Executive Compensation       The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Compensation of Directors,   Executive Compensation,  and  Compensation Discussion and
Analysis  in Costco s Proxy Statement.         Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters       The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections
entitled  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in Costco s Proxy Statement.         Item 13 Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence       The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference to the sections entitled  Proposal 1: Election of Directors,   Directors,   Committees of the Board,   Shareholder Communications to the Board,   Meeting Attendance,   Report of the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors,   Certain Relationships and Transactions  and  Report of the Audit Committee  in Costco s Proxy Statement.         Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services       The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Independent Public Accountants  in Costco s Proxy Statement.         PART IV          Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules        

(a)  
    Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:          

1.  
    Financial Statements:         See the listing of Financial Statements included as a part of this Form 10-K on Item 8 of Part II.       

2.  
    Financial Statement Schedules None.          
 
  The required exhibits are included at the end of the Form 10-K Annual Report and are described in the Exhibit Index immediately
preceding the first exhibit.       

(b)  
    Financial Statement Schedules None.            
   39   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
     October 15, 2010    

C OSTCO  W HOLESALE  C ORPORATION   
  (Registrant)    

By   
     
  /s/ R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI    

Richard A. Galanti      Executive Vice President       and Chief Financial Officer      

  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

By   
     
  /s/ J AMES  D. S INEGAL   

October 15, 2010    

James D. Sinegal         Chief Executive Officer and Director    

By   
     
  /s/ J EFFREY  H. B ROTMAN   

October 15, 2010    

Jeffrey H. Brotman      Chairman of the Board    

By   
     
  /s/ W. C RAIG  J ELINEK   

October 15, 2010    

W. Craig Jelinek      President, Chief Operating Officer and Director    

By   
     
  /s/ R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI   

October 15, 2010    

Richard A. Galanti      Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and       Director (Principal Financial
Officer)    

By   
     
  /s/ D AVID  S. P ETTERSON   

October 15, 2010    

David S. Petterson      Senior Vice President and Controller       (Principal Accounting Officer)    

By   
     
  /s/ B ENJAMIN  S. C ARSON , S R ., M.D.  

October 15, 2010    

Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., M.D.      Director    

By   
     
  /s/ S USAN  L. D ECKER   

October 15, 2010    

Susan L. Decker      Director    

By   
     
  /s/ R ICHARD  D. D I C ERCHIO   

October 15, 2010    

Richard D. DiCerchio      Director    

40   

Table of Contents  

41   

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders      Costco Wholesale Corporation:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Costco
Wholesale Corporation and subsidiaries as of August 29, 2010 and August 30, 2009 and the related consolidated statements of income, equity and comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the 52-week periods ended August 29,
2010, August 30, 2009, and August 31, 2008. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based
on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall consolidated financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Costco Wholesale Corporation and subsidiaries as of August 29, 2010 and August 30, 2009, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for the 52-week periods ended August 29, 2010, August 30, 2009, and August 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   
  As discussed in Note 1, the Company changed its accounting policy for minority interests as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements An Amendment of ARB No. 51  (included in FASB ASC Topic 810,  Consolidation ) effective August 31, 2009.   
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s
internal control over financial reporting as of August 29, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
dated October 15, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.      /s/ KPMG LLP      Seattle, Washington   
  October 15, 2010   
         42   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders      Costco Wholesale Corporation:      We have audited Costco Wholesale Corporation s internal control
over financial reporting as of August 29, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management s annual report on internal
control over financial reporting included in Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 29, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of August 29, 2010 and August 30, 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the 52-week periods
ended August 29, 2010, August 30, 2009, and August 31, 2008, and our report dated October 15, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.   
  /s/ KPMG LLP      Seattle, Washington      October 15, 2010   
     
   43   

Table of Contents  

      COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    
   (dollars in millions, except par value and share data)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
     
   44   

Table of Contents  

      COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME        (dollars in millions, except per share data)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated financial statements.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY        AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    
   (dollars in millions)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

      COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (dollars in millions)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated financial statements.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

      COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data)        Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
       Basis of Presentation       The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Costco Wholesale Corporation, a Washington corporation, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and subsidiaries in which it has a controlling interest ( Costco  or the  Company ).
The Company reports its noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries as a component of equity separate from the Company s equity. All material inter-company transactions among the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated in
consolidation.      Costco operates membership warehouses that offer low prices on a limited selection of nationally branded and select
private label products in a wide range of merchandise categories in no-frills, self-service facilities. At August 29, 2010, Costco operated 540 warehouses in 40 states and Puerto Rico (416 locations), nine Canadian provinces (79 locations), the
United Kingdom (22 locations), Japan (nine locations), Korea (seven locations), Taiwan (six locations) and Australia (one location), as well as 32 locations in Mexico, through a 50%-owned joint venture.   
   Fiscal Year End       The Company s fiscal
year ends on the Sunday closest to August 31. References to 2010, 2009, and 2008 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended August 29, 2010, August 30, 2009, and August 31, 2008, respectively.   
   Use of Estimates       The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions.   
   Reclassifications       Certain reclassifications
have been made to prior fiscal year amounts or balances to conform to the presentation in the current fiscal year. Additionally, as a result of the application of a new accounting pronouncement for noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities,
as discussed below in Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements, the Company:       

Reclassified to noncontrolling interests, a component of total equity, $80 at August 31, 2009, which was previously reported as minority interest on our
consolidated balance sheet, after the correction of an immaterial error of $6 relating to the noncontrolling interest component of accumulated other comprehensive income. A new subtotal, total Costco stockholders  equity, refers to the equity
attributable to stockholders of Costco;          

Reported as separate captions within our consolidated statements of income, net income including noncontrolling interests, net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests and net income attributable to Costco;          

Utilized net income including noncontrolling interests, as the starting point on our consolidated statements of cash flows in order to reconcile net income
including noncontrolling interests to cash flows from operating activities; and            
   48   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

Reported separately within our consolidated statements of equity and comprehensive income, distributions and cumulative balances attributable to
noncontrolling interests.         These reclassifications did not have a material impact on the Company s previously
reported consolidated financial statements.       Cash and Cash Equivalents       The Company considers as cash and cash equivalents all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase and proceeds due from credit and debit card transactions with
settlement terms of less than one week. Credit and debit card receivables were $862 and $758 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively.       Short-term
Investments       In general, short-term investments have a maturity of three months to five years at the date of purchase. Investments
with maturities beyond five years may be classified as short-term based on their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations. Short-term investments classified
as available-for-sale are recorded at fair value using the specific identification method with the unrealized gains and losses reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized. Realized gains and losses from the sale of
available-for-sale securities, if any, are determined on a specific identification basis.       Receivables, net    
  Receivables consist of the following at the end of 2010 and 2009:       
    Vendor receivable balances are generally presented on a gross basis separate from any related payable due. In certain
circumstances, these receivables may be settled against the related payable to that vendor.      Reinsurance receivables are held by the
Company s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary. The receivable balance represents amounts ceded through reinsurance arrangements, and are reflected on a gross basis, separate from the amounts assumed under reinsurance, which are presented
on a gross basis within other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    
     
       Third-party pharmacy
receivables generally relate to amounts due from members  insurance companies for the amount above their co-pay, which is collected at the point-of-sale.      Amounts are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. Management determines the allowance for doubtful accounts based on historical experience and application of the specific identification method.
      Vendor Receivables and Allowances    
  Periodic payments from vendors in the form of volume rebates or other purchase discounts that are evidenced by signed agreements are reflected in
the carrying value of the inventory when earned or as the Company progresses towards earning the rebate or discount and as a component of merchandise costs as the merchandise is sold. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded
as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of the related agreement, or by other systematic approach.   
   Merchandise Inventories       Merchandise
inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for
all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company believes the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching
current costs with current revenues. The Company records an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end.   
  At the end of 2008, due to overall net inflationary trends, merchandise inventories valued at LIFO were lower than the FIFO value, resulting in a
$32 charge to merchandise costs. During 2009, due to overall net deflationary trends, the Company recorded a $32 benefit to merchandise costs to adjust inventories valued at LIFO. At the end of 2010 and 2009, merchandise inventories valued at LIFO
approximated FIFO after considering the lower of cost or market principle.       
    The Company provides for estimated inventory losses between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales,
using estimates based on the Company s experience. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect the results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth fiscal quarters of the fiscal year.
Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as the Company progresses towards earning those rebates, provided that they are probable and reasonably estimable.   
         50   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    
     
    Property and Equipment       Property and equipment are stated at cost. In general, new building additions are separated into components, each with its own estimated useful life. Depreciation and amortization expense is computed using the
straight-line method over estimated useful lives or the lease term, if shorter. Leasehold improvements incurred after the beginning of the initial lease term are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the remaining
term of the initial lease plus any renewals that are reasonably assured at the date the leasehold improvement is made.      Estimated useful
lives for financial reporting purposes are as follows:       
    Repair and maintenance costs are
expensed when incurred. Expenditures for remodels, refurbishments and improvements that add to or change the way an asset functions or that extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized. Assets that were removed during the remodel,
refurbishment or improvement are retired. When assets are retired or sold, the asset costs and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated, with any remaining gain or loss recorded.       Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       The Company periodically evaluates long-lived assets for
impairment when management makes the decision to relocate or close a warehouse or when events or changes in circumstances occur that may indicate the carrying amount of the asset group, generally an individual warehouse, may not be fully
recoverable. For asset groups to be held and used, including warehouses to be relocated, the carrying value of the asset group is considered recoverable when the estimated future undiscounted cash flows generated from the use and eventual
disposition of the asset group exceed the group s net carrying value. In the event that the carrying value is not considered recoverable, an impairment loss would be recognized for the asset group to be held and used as the excess of the
carrying amount over the estimated fair value of the group. For asset groups classified as held for sale (disposal group), the carrying value is compared to the disposal group s fair value less costs to sell. The Company estimates fair value by
obtaining market appraisals from third party brokers or other valuation techniques. In 2010, 2009, and 2008, the Company recorded impairment charges of $2, $11, and $10, respectively. In 2009, the charge was primarily related to the closure of its
two Costco Home locations in July 2009. In 2008, the charge was primarily related to an on-site relocation of a warehouse that was demolished, rebuilt, and reopened in early 2009.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    
     
    Other Assets       Other assets consist of the following at the end of 2010 and 2009:       
    The Company's investments in Costco Mexico and in other unconsolidated joint ventures that are less than majority
owned are accounted for under the equity method. The equity in earnings of Costco Mexico is included in interest income and other in the accompanying consolidated statements of income, and for 2010, 2009, and 2008, was $41, $32, and $41,
respectively. The amount of retained earnings that represents undistributed earnings of Costco Mexico was $307 and $266 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively. The investments and equity in earnings of other unconsolidated joint ventures are not
material. The Company did not make any capital contributions to its investment in Costco Mexico in 2010, 2009, or 2008.      Goodwill
resulting from certain business combinations is reviewed for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently if circumstances dictate. No impairment of goodwill has been incurred to date.   
  The Company adjusts the carrying value of its employee life insurance contracts to the net cash surrender value at the end of each reporting
period.      Notes receivable generally represent amounts due from cities over a number of years, representing incentive amounts granted to
the Company when a new location was opened, or for the repayment of certain infrastructure initially paid for by the Company.       Accounts Payable
      The Company s banking system provides for the daily replenishment of major bank accounts as checks are presented. Accordingly,
included in accounts payable at the end of 2010 and 2009 are $617 and $611, respectively, representing the excess of outstanding checks over cash on deposit at the banks on which the checks were drawn.   
   Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities       The
Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly-owned captive insurance entity and participation in a reinsurance program, to provide for potential liabilities for workers  compensation, general
liability, property damage, director and officers  liability,   
         52   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering
historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors, and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and
historical trends. As of the end of 2010 and 2009, these insurance liabilities of $541 and $500, respectively, were included in accounts payable, accrued salaries and benefits, and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets,
classified based on their nature.      The Company s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary (the captive) receives direct premiums,
which are netted against the Company s premium costs in selling, general and administrative expenses, in the consolidated statements of income. The captive participates in a reinsurance program that includes other third-party members. The
member agreements and practices of the reinsurance program limit any participating members  individual risk. Both revenues and costs are presented in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. Income
statement adjustments related to the reinsurance program are recognized as information becomes known. In the event the Company leaves the reinsurance program, the Company is not relieved of its primary obligation to the policyholders for activity
prior to the termination of the annual agreement.       Other Current Liabilities    
  Other current liabilities consist of the following at the end of 2010 and 2009:   
   
     Derivatives    
  The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange-rate fluctuations in the normal course of its business, which the Company manages, in part,
through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to hedge U.S. dollar
merchandise inventory expenditures. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. The Company seeks to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and does not intend to engage in speculative transactions. The
aggregate notional amount of forward foreign exchange contracts was $225 and $183 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively. These contracts do not contain any credit-risk-related contingent features.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    
     
       The Company seeks to manage
the counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which the Company has an established banking relationship. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates
counterparty risk. The contracts are limited to less than one year. See Note 3 for information on the fair value of these contracts.   
  The following table summarizes the amount of net gain or (loss) recognized in interest income and other, net in the accompanying consolidated
statements of income:       
    The Company is exposed to fluctuations in energy prices, particularly electricity and natural gas, which it seeks to
partially mitigate through the use of fixed-price contracts for approximately 26% of its warehouses and other facilities in the U.S. and Canada. The Company also enters into variable-priced derivative contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in
addition to fuel for its gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts generally qualify for treatment as normal purchases or normal sales and require no mark-to-market adjustment.       Foreign Currency Translation       The functional currencies of the Company s international
subsidiaries are the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary is located. Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies, as well as the Company s investment in Costco Mexico, are translated at the exchange rate on the
balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. Revenues and expenses of the Company s consolidated foreign operations are translated at average rates of exchange
prevailing during the year. Gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are included in interest income and other, net and were $13 in 2010 and not significant in 2009 or 2008.       Revenue Recognition       The Company generally recognizes sales, net of estimated returns, at the
time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When the Company collects payments from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amounts received are generally recorded as
deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. The Company provides for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns. Amounts collected from members, which under common trade
practices are referred to as sales taxes, are recorded on a net basis.   
         54   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    
     
       The Company evaluates whether
it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when Costco is the primary obligor, is subject to inventory risk, has latitude in establishing prices and
selecting suppliers, can influence product or service specifications, or has several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded on a gross basis. If the Company is not the primary obligor and does not possess other indicators of gross
reporting as noted above, it records the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales.      Membership fee revenue
represents annual membership fees paid by substantially all of the Company s members. The Company accounts for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one-year
membership period. As previously disclosed, effective with renewals occurring on and after March 1, 2009, the Company changed an element of its membership renewal policy. Memberships renewed within two months after expiration of the current
membership year are extended for twelve months from the expiration date. (Under the previous policy, renewals within six months of the expiration date were extended for twelve months from the expiration date.) Memberships renewed more than two
months after such expiration date are extended for twelve months from the renewal date. This change has had an immaterial effect of deferring recognition of certain membership fees paid by late-renewing members.   
  The Company s Executive Members qualify for a 2% reward (up to a maximum of five hundred dollars per year on qualified purchases made at
Costco), which can be redeemed at Costco warehouses. The Company accounts for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales, with the related liability being classified within other current liabilities. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are
computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non-redemptions based on historical data. The reduction in sales was $688, $610, and $571 in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.       Merchandise Costs       Merchandise costs consist of the purchase price of inventory sold, inbound
shipping charges and all costs related to the Company s depot operations, including freight from depots to selling warehouses, and are reduced by vendor consideration received. Merchandise costs also include salaries, benefits and depreciation
on production equipment in certain fresh foods and ancillary departments.       Selling, General and Administrative Expenses    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits and workers  compensation costs for warehouse employees,
other than fresh foods departments and certain ancillary businesses, as well as all regional and home office employees, including buying personnel. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include utilities, bank charges, rent and
substantially all building and equipment depreciation, as well as other operating costs incurred to support warehouse operations.       Marketing and
Promotional Expenses       Costco's policy is generally to limit marketing and promotional expenses to new warehouse openings, occasional
direct mail marketing to prospective new members and direct mail marketing programs to   
         55   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

existing members promoting selected merchandise. Marketing and promotional costs are expensed as incurred and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying
consolidated statements of income.       Stock-Based Compensation       Compensation expense for all stock-based awards granted is recognized using the straight-line method. The fair value of restricted stock units (RSUs) is calculated as the market value of the common stock on the
measurement date less the present value of the expected dividends forgone during the vesting period. The fair value of stock options is measured using the Black-Scholes valuation model. While options and RSUs granted to employees generally vest over
five years, all grants allow for either daily or quarterly vesting of the pro-rata number of stock-based awards that would vest on the next anniversary of the grant date in the event of retirement or voluntary termination. The historical experience
rate of actual forfeitures has been minimal. As such, the Company does not reduce stock-based compensation for an estimate of forfeitures because the estimate is inconsequential in light of historical experience and considering the awards vest on
either a daily or quarterly basis. The impact of actual forfeitures arising in the event of involuntary termination is recognized as actual forfeitures occur, which generally has been infrequent. Stock options have a ten-year term. Stock-based
compensation expense is included in merchandise costs and selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of income. See Note 7 for additional information on the Company s stock-based compensation plans.   
   Preopening Expenses       Preopening expenses
related to new warehouses, new regional offices and other startup operations are expensed as incurred.       Closing Costs    
  Warehouse closing costs incurred relate principally to the Company s relocation of certain warehouses (that were not otherwise impaired) to
larger and better-located facilities. The provisions for 2010, 2009, and 2008 included charges in the amounts indicated below:       
    Warehouse closing expenses primarily relate to accelerated building depreciation based on the shortened useful life
through the expected closing date and remaining lease obligations, net of estimated sublease income, for leased locations. At the end of 2010 and 2009, the Company s reserve for warehouse closing costs was $5 and primarily related to estimated
future lease obligations.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    
     
    Fair Value of Financial Instruments    
  The carrying value of the Company s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, and accounts payable approximate
fair value due to their short-term nature or variable interest rates. See Notes 2, 3, and 4 for the carrying value and fair value of the Company s investments, derivative instruments, and fixed rate debt.   
  The Company follows the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements relating to financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities, including
presentation of required disclosures, in its consolidated financial statements. This guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. The guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which requires maximizing the use of observable inputs when measuring fair value. The three levels of inputs that may be used are:   
  Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.   
  Level 2: Observable market based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data.   
  Level 3: Significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.   
  The following valuation techniques are used to measure fair value:      Level 1 primarily consists of financial instruments, such as money market mutual funds, whose value is based on quoted market prices, such as quoted net asset values published by the fund as supported in an active
market, exchange-traded instruments and listed equities.      Level 2 includes assets and liabilities where quoted market prices are
unobservable but observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets
or liabilities, could be obtained from data providers or pricing vendors. The Company s Level 2 assets and liabilities primarily include United States (U.S.) government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured
corporate bonds, investments in corporate notes and bonds, asset and mortgage-backed securities, and forward foreign exchange contracts. Valuation methodologies are based on  consensus pricing,  using market prices from a variety of
industry-standard independent data providers or pricing that considers various assumptions, including time value, yield curve, volatility factors, credit spreads, default rates, loss severity, current market and contractual prices for the underlying
instruments or debt, broker and dealer quotes, as well as other relevant economic measures. All are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data, for which the Company typically receives
independent external valuation information.      Level 3 is comprised of significant unobservable inputs for valuations from the
Company s independent data and a primary pricing vendor that are also supported by little, infrequent, or no market activity. Management considers indicators of significant unobservable inputs such as the lengthening of maturities,
later-than-scheduled payments, and any remaining individual securities that have otherwise matured, as indicators of Level 3. Assets and liabilities are considered Level 3 when their fair value
  
         57   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

inputs are unobservable, unavailable or management concludes that even though there may be some observable inputs, an item should be classified as a Level 3 based on other indicators of
significant unobservable inputs, such as situations involving limited market activity, where determination of fair value requires significant judgment or estimation. The Company utilizes the services of a primary pricing vendor, which does not
provide access to their proprietary valuation models, inputs and assumptions. While the Company is not provided access to proprietary models of the vendor, the Company reviewed and contrasted pricing received with other pricing sources to ensure
accuracy of each asset class for which prices are provided. The Company s review also included an examination of the underlying inputs and assumptions for a sample of individual securities across asset classes, credit rating levels and various
durations, a process that is continually performed for each reporting period. In addition, the pricing vendor has an established challenge process in place for all security valuations, which facilitates identification and resolution of potentially
erroneous prices. The Company believes that the prices received from the primary pricing vendor are representative of exit prices in accordance with authoritative guidance, and are classified appropriately in the fair value hierarchy.   
   Interest Income and Other, Net       Interest
income and other, net includes:       
     Other-Than-Temporary Impairment       The Company periodically evaluates unrealized losses in its investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment using both qualitative and quantitative criteria. In the event a security is deemed to be
other-than-temporarily impaired, the Company recognizes the credit loss component in interest income and other, net in the consolidated financial statements. The Company generally only invests in debt securities.   
   Income Taxes       Effective September 3,
2007, the Company adopted authoritative guidance related to uncertain tax positions, which clarified the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements. This guidance prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
disclosure, and transition. The cumulative impact of the initial adoption of this guidance was to decrease the beginning balance of retained earnings and to increase the Company s liability for uncertain tax positions and related interest by a
corresponding amount.      The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under the asset and liability method,
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences   
         58   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

attributed to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and tax credits and loss carry-forwards. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carry-forwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and
liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to amounts expected to be realized.   
  The determination of the Company s provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and
application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in
the Company s consolidated financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, the Company
reassess these probabilities and records any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. See Note 9 for additional information.   
   Net Income Attributable to Costco (Net Income) per Common Share       The computation of basic net income per share uses the weighted average number of shares that were outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted net income per share uses the weighted average number of
shares in the basic net income per share calculation plus the number of common shares that would be issued assuming exercise and vesting of all potentially dilutive common shares outstanding using the treasury stock method for shares subject to
stock options and restricted stock units and the  if converted  method for the convertible note securities.       Stock Repurchase Programs
      Shares repurchased are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. The par value of repurchased shares is
deducted from common stock and the excess repurchase price over par value is deducted from additional paid-in capital and retained earnings. See Note 6 for additional information.       Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements       In February 2010, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued amended guidance on disclosure of subsequent events, eliminating the requirement to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated in originally issued and revised financial statements. The
Company adopted this guidance in its second quarter of fiscal 2010.      In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance to amend the disclosure
requirements related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value measurement hierarchy, including the reasons and the
timing of the transfers and information on purchases, sales, issuance, and settlements on a gross basis (as opposed to a net basis) in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy.
The guidance is effective for annual and interim   
         59   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for Level 3 (on a gross basis) reconciliation disclosures, which are effective for annual and interim periods beginning after
December 15, 2010. The Company adopted this guidance at the beginning of its third quarter of fiscal 2010, except for the Level 3 reconciliation disclosures on the roll-forward activities, which it will adopt at the beginning of its third
quarter of fiscal 2011. Other than requiring additional disclosures, adoption of this guidance did not have and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.   
  In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance establishing the FASB Accounting Standards Codification as the source of authoritative GAAP (other than
guidance issued by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC)) to be used in the preparation of financial statements. The Company adopted these requirements at the beginning of its fiscal year 2010, as reflected in the notes to the Company s
consolidated financial statements.      In February 2008, the FASB issued amended guidance surrounding the adoption of fair value
measurements. The amendment allowed for an elected deferral of the adoption for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. The
Company elected to defer adoption at the time of the amendment. The Company adopted the requirements for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities in its financial statements at the beginning of its fiscal year 2010. The adoption did not
impact the Company s consolidated financial statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance that changed the accounting and
reporting of noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. This guidance requires noncontrolling interests to be reported as a component of equity separate from the parent s equity and purchases or sales of equity interests
that do not result in a change in control to be accounted for as equity transactions. In addition, net income attributable to a noncontrolling interest is to be included in net income and, upon a loss of control, the interest sold, as well as any
interest retained, is to be recorded at fair value, with any gain or loss recognized in net income. The Company adopted these new requirements at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal 2010. In January 2010, the FASB issued additional guidance
on this topic, which clarifies the types of transactions that should be accounted for as a decrease in ownership of a subsidiary. The Company retrospectively adopted these new requirements at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal 2010, as
required. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.      In December 2007, the
FASB issued guidance on business combinations. This guidance retains the fundamental requirements of the acquisition method of accounting (formerly the purchase method) to account for all business combinations. However, it requires the reporting
entity in a business combination to recognize all identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. It establishes the acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective, and requires the
capitalization of in-process research and development at fair value and the expensing of acquisition-related costs as incurred. The Company is subject to these requirements as of the beginning of its fiscal year 2010 in the event of a business
combination.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    
     
    Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted    
  In October 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance on revenue recognition for multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. Under this guidance, when
vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence for deliverables in an arrangement cannot be determined, a best estimate of the selling price is required to separate deliverables and allocate arrangement consideration using the relative
selling-price method. This guidance also prescribes new disclosure requirements on how the application of the relative selling price method affects the timing and amount of revenue recognition. The guidance is effective for revenue arrangements
entered into for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The Company will adopt this guidance at the beginning of its fiscal year 2011. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its
consolidated financial statements.      In June 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance concerning whether variable interests constitute
controlling financial interests. This guidance is effective for the first annual reporting period that begins after November 15, 2009. The Company will adopt this guidance at the beginning of its fiscal year 2011. As a result of the adoption,
the Company will begin consolidating its 50%-owned joint venture, Costco Mexico on a prospective basis. Costco Mexico operates 32 warehouses similar in format and merchandise offerings to Costco warehouses operated world-wide. Historically, the
Company accounted for its interest in Costco Mexico under the equity method. Consolidation of Costco Mexico is expected to increase total assets, liabilities, and revenue by approximately 3%, with no impact on net income attributable to Costco.
      Note 2 Investments       The
major classes of the Company s investments are as follows:       Money market mutual funds:    
  The Company invests in money funds that seek to maintain a net asset value of par, while limiting overall exposure to credit, market, and liquidity
risks.       U.S. government and agency securities:       These U.S. government-secured debt instruments are publically traded and valued. Losses in this category are primarily due to market liquidity and interest rate reductions.   
   Corporate notes and bonds:       The Company
evaluates its corporate debt securities based on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the credit rating of the issuer. The vast majority of the Company s corporate debt securities are rated investment grade by the major rating
agencies.       FDIC insured corporate bonds:       These bonds are guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government under the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Losses in this category are primarily due to market liquidity and interest
rate reductions.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 2 Investments (Continued)    
     
    Asset and mortgage-backed securities:    
  The vast majority of the Company s asset and mortgage-backed securities have investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies.
These investments are collateralized by residential real estate credit, credit card receivables, commercial real estate, foreign mortgage receivables, and lease receivables. Estimates of fair value are based upon a variety of factors including, but
not limited to, credit rating of the issuer, internal credit risk, interest rate variation, prepayment assumptions, and the potential for default.   
   Certificates of deposit:       Certificate of
deposits are short-term interest-bearing debt instruments issued by various financial institutions with which the Company has an established banking relationship.      The Company s investments at the end of 2010 and 2009, were as follows:       

(1)  
    At the end of 2009, $3 was recorded in other assets, reflecting the timing of the expected distributions.      
         62   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 2 Investments (Continued)    
     
       The proceeds and gross
realized gains and losses from sales of available-for-sale securities during 2010, 2009, and 2008 are provided in the following table:       
    In 2008, one of the Company s
enhanced money fund investments, Columbia Strategic Cash Portfolio Fund (Columbia), ceased accepting cash redemption requests and changed to a floating net asset value. In light of the restricted liquidity, the Company elected to receive a pro-rata
allocation of the underlying securities in a separately managed account and reclassified this fund from cash and cash equivalents to short-term investments and other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company assessed the fair value of
these securities through market quotations and review of current investment ratings, as available, coupled with an evaluation of the liquidation value of each investment and its current performance in meeting scheduled payments of principal and
interest. During 2010, 2009, and 2008, the Company recognized $0, $12, and $5, respectively, of other-than-temporary impairment losses related to these securities, which were included in interest income and other, net in the accompanying
consolidated statements of income. At the end of 2010, the Company no longer held any of these securities.      The maturities of
available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities at August 29, 2010 are as follows:       
 
         63   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          
        Note 3 Fair Value Measurement
       Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis       The tables below present information at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively, regarding the Company s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, and
indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized to determine such fair value:       

(1)  
    Included in cash and cash equivalents in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.      

(2)  
    The asset and the liability values are included in deferred income taxes and other current assets and other current liabilities, respectively, in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets. See Note 1 for additional information on derivative instruments.      
         64   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 3 Fair Value Measurement (Continued)          
       The tables below provide a
summary of the changes in fair value, including net transfers, of all financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for 2010 and 2009:   

2010    
      
   Investment     in corporate     notes and     bonds   

Investment     in asset and     mortgage-     backed     securities   

Total   

Balance, beginning of period   
      
  $  
  14  

$  
  12  

$  
  26  

Total realized and unrealized gains (losses):   

Included in other comprehensive income   

0  

2  

2  

Purchases, issuances, and (settlements)   

(14  
  )   

(14  
  )   

(28  
  )    

Balance, end of period   
      
  $  
  0  

$  
  0  

$  
  0  

The Company reports transfers in and out of Levels 1, 2, and 3, as applicable, using the fair value of the individual
securities as of the beginning of the reporting period in which the transfer occurred. There were no transfers in or out of Level 1, 2, or 3 during 2010. During 2009, the Company considered continuing indicators of significant unobservable inputs,
such as the lengthening of maturities, later-than-scheduled payments, and any securities that have defaulted, as Level 3 inputs for valuation. This resulted in a transfer into Level 3 from Level 2.   
   Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis       At the beginning of 2010, the Company adopted the fair value measurement guidance for all nonfinancial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring
basis. These assets and liabilities include items such as long lived assets that are measured at fair value resulting from impairment, if deemed necessary. Fair market value adjustments to those financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis during 2010 were immaterial.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          
        Note 4 Debt    
   Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs       The Company enters into various short-term bank credit facilities and commercial paper programs. At the end of 2010 and 2009, the total amount of credit under these facilities was $341 and $388, respectively, and
the total amount outstanding was $26 and $16, respectively. The various credit facilities provide for applicable interest rates ranging from 0.61% to 3.63% in 2010 and 0.64% to 3.75% in 2009.       Short-Term Borrowings       The weighted average borrowings, maximum borrowings, and weighted
average interest rate under all short-term borrowing arrangements were as follows for 2010 and 2009:       
 
         66   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 4 Debt (Continued)    
     
    Long-Term Debt       Long-term debt at the end of 2010 and 2009 consisted of the following:       
    In April 2010, the Company s Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances related to
the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In November 2009, the Company s Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances related to the 0.88% promissory notes due November 2009,
originally issued in November 2002.      In June 2008, the Company s Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten-year term loan with a
variable rate of interest of Yen TIBOR (6-month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.84% and 0.95% at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi-annually in December and June and principal is due in June 2018.
     In October 2007, the Company s Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement, bearing interest at
2.695%. Interest is payable semi-annually, and principal is due in October 2017. The Company guarantees all of the promissory notes issued by its Japanese subsidiary.      In February 2007, the Company issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 (2017 Notes) at a discount of $6
(together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the Senior Notes are being amortized to interest
expense over the terms of those notes. The Company, at its option, may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal
amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes
at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes.      In August 1997, the Company sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced
  
         67   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 4 Debt (Continued)    

with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds to the Company of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 943,000 shares of Costco Common
Stock shares at an initial conversion price of $22.71. Holders of the Zero Coupon Notes may require the Company to purchase the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of purchase) in August 2012. The
Company, at its option, may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of August 29, 2010, $859 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been
converted by note holders to shares of Costco Common Stock, of which the principal converted during 2010, 2009 and 2008 is detailed in the table below:       
    The carrying value and estimated fair
value of long-term debt, based on quoted market prices, consisted of the following at the end of 2010 and 2009:       
    Maturities of long-term debt during the next five fiscal years and thereafter are as follows:   
   
     Note 5 Leases    
   Operating Leases       The Company leases land
and/or buildings at warehouses and certain other office and distribution facilities primarily under operating leases. These leases expire at various dates through 2049, with the exception of one lease in the Company s United Kingdom subsidiary,
which expires in 2151. These leases generally contain one or more of the following options which the Company can exercise at the end of the initial lease term: (a) renewal of the lease for a defined number of years at the then-fair
  
         68   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 5 Leases (Continued)    

market rental rate or rate stipulated in the lease agreement; (b) purchase of the property at the then-fair market value; or (c) right of first refusal in the event of a third party
purchase offer.      The Company accounts for its lease expense with free rent periods and step-rent provisions on a straight-line basis
over the original term of the lease, from the date the Company has control of the property. Certain leases provide for periodic rental increases based on the price indices, and some of the leases provide for rents based on the greater of minimum
guaranteed amounts or sales volume. Contingent rents have not been material.      The aggregate rental expense and sublease income, related
to certain of its operating lease arrangements, for 2010, 2009 and 2008 are as follows:       

(1)  
    Included in interest income and other      
   Capital Leases       The Company has entered into
four capital leases for warehouse locations. Capital lease liabilities were recorded at the lesser of the estimated fair market value of the leased property or the net present value of the aggregate future minimum lease payments. These leases expire
at various dates through 2040.      Gross assets recorded under these leases were $169 and $77, at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively.
These assets, net of accumulated amortization of $7 and $1 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively, are included in buildings and improvements in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Amortization expense on capital lease assets is
recorded as depreciation expense and is included in selling, general and administrative expenses.   
         69   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 5 Leases (Continued)    
     
       Future minimum payments, net
of sub-lease income of $173 for all years combined, during the next five fiscal years and thereafter under non-cancelable operating leases with terms of at least one year and capital leases, at the end of 2010, were as follows:   

(1)  
    Included in other current liabilities.          

(2)  
    Included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities.         Certain leases may require the Company to incur costs to return leased property to its original condition, such as the removal of gas tanks. The Company has recorded the estimated asset retirement obligations
associated with these leases, which amounted to $26 and $24 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively.       Note 6 Stockholders  Equity
       Dividends       The Company s
current quarterly dividend rate is $0.205 per share.       Stock Repurchase Programs    
  The Company s stock repurchase activity during 2010, 2009, and 2008 is summarized in the following table:   

70   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 6 Stockholders  Equity (Continued)    
     
       These amounts differ from the
stock repurchase balances in the consolidated statements of cash flows to the extent that repurchases had not settled at the end of the fiscal year. Purchases are made from time-to-time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block
purchases, and pursuant to share repurchase plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1. Repurchased shares are retired.      Amounts remaining under stock
repurchase authorizations of the Board of Directors at the end of 2010 are detailed below:       
     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income       The components of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, were as follows:       
     Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans       Through the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company granted stock options under the Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (Second Restated 2002 Plan) and predecessor plans. Since the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006, the Company has granted RSUs in lieu of stock options under the Second Restated 2002 Plan. In July 2008 The Third Restated 2002 Plan was amended by the Board of Directors (Fourth Restated 2002 Plan). Under the Fourth Restated 2002 Plan,
prospective grants of RSUs are subject, upon certain terminations of employment, to quarterly, as opposed to daily vesting. Previously awarded RSU grants continue to involve daily vesting upon certain terminations of employment. Additionally,
employees who attain certain years of service with the Company will receive shares under accelerated vesting provisions on the annual vesting date rather than upon qualified retirement. The first grant impacted by these amendments occurred in the
first quarter of 2009. In the second quarter of 2010, the Fourth Restated 2002 Plan was amended following shareholder approval and is now referred to as the Fifth Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (Fifth Restated 2002 Plan). The Fifth Restated 2002
Plan authorizes the issuance of an additional 18,000,000 shares (10,285,714 RSUs) of common stock for future grants in addition to grants currently authorized. Each share issued in respect of stock bonuses or stock units is counted as 1.75 shares
toward the limit of shares available. The Company issues new shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options and vesting of RSUs.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans (Continued)    
     
    Summary of Stock Option Activity    
  The following table summarizes stock option transactions during 2010:   

(1)  
    The difference between the original exercise price and market value of common stock at August 29, 2010.      
  The following is a summary of stock options outstanding at the end of 2010:   
   
    Options exercisable and the weighted average exercise price at the end of 2009 and 2008:   
   
    The tax benefits realized and intrinsic
value related to total stock options exercised during 2010, 2009, and 2008 are provided in the following table:       

(1)  
    The difference between the original exercise price and market value of common stock measured at each individual exercise date.      
         72   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans (Continued)    
     
    Employee Tax Consequences on Certain Stock Options    
  In 2010, the Company recorded a $24 benefit to selling, general and administrative expense related to a partial reversal of an expense related to
mitigating potential adverse tax consequences to the Company s Canadian employees, previously recorded in fiscal 2007.       Summary of Restricted
Stock Unit Activity       RSUs granted to employees and to non-employee directors generally vest over five years and three years,
respectively; however, the Company provides for accelerated vesting for employees that have attained twenty-five or more years of service with the Company. Recipients are not entitled to vote or receive dividends on unvested shares. At the end of
2010, 12,362,000 shares were available to be granted as RSUs to eligible employees and directors under the Fifth Restated 2002 Plan.   
  The following awards were outstanding at the end of 2010:       

8,492,000 shares of time-based RSUs, which vest upon the achievement of continued employment over specified periods of time; and      

761,000 performance-based RSUs, of which 305,000 will be formally granted to certain executive officers of the Company upon the official certification of the
attainment of specified performance targets for 2010. Once formally granted, the restrictions lapse upon achievement of continued employment over specified periods of time.      
  The following table summarizes RSU transactions during 2010:       
     Summary of Stock-Based Compensation       The following table summarizes stock-based compensation and the related tax benefits under the Company s plans:       
 
         73   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans (Continued)    
     
   The remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs and stock options at the
end of 2010, and the weighed-average period of time over which this cost will be recognized are as follows:       

Unrecognized     Compensation     Cost   

Weighted Average     Period of Time     (in years)   

RSUs   
      
  $  
  359  

3.1  

Options   
      
  $  
  1  

0.1  
            Note 8 Retirement Plans    
  The Company has a 401(k) Retirement Plan that is available to all U.S. employees who have completed 90 days of employment. For all U.S. employees,
with the exception of California union employees, the plan allows pre-tax deferrals against which the Company matches 50% of the first one thousand dollars of employee contributions. In addition, the Company provides each eligible participant an
annual discretionary contribution based on salary and years of service.      California union employees participate in a defined benefit
plan sponsored by their union. The Company makes contributions based upon its union agreement. For all the California union employees, the Company-sponsored 401(k) plan currently allows pre-tax deferrals against which the Company matches 50% of the
first five hundred dollars of employee contributions. In addition, the Company will provide each eligible participant a contribution based on hours worked and years of service.   
  The Company has a defined contribution plan for Canadian and United Kingdom employees and contributes a percentage of each employee s salary.
Certain other foreign operations have defined benefit and contribution plans that are not significant. Amounts expensed under all plans were $313, $287, and $272 for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.   
   Note 9 Income Taxes       Income before
income taxes is comprised of the following:       
 
         74   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 9 Income Taxes (Continued)    
     
       The provisions for income
taxes for 2010, 2009, and 2008 are as follows:       
    Tax benefits associated with the exercise of employee stock options and other employee stock programs were allocated
to equity attributable to Costco in the amount of $15, $2, and $62, in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.      The reconciliation between
the statutory tax rate and the effective rate for 2010, 2009, and 2008 is as follows:       
 
         75   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 9 Income Taxes (Continued)    
     
       The components of the
deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:       
    The deferred tax accounts at the end of 2010 and 2009 include current deferred income tax assets of $307 and $247
respectively, included in deferred income taxes and other current assets; non-current deferred income tax assets of $10 and $7, respectively, included in other assets; and non-current deferred income tax liabilities of $244 and $174, respectively,
included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities.      The Company has not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative
undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. affiliates, including its 50% owned investment in the Mexico corporate joint venture, aggregating $1,972 and $1,554 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively, as such earnings are deemed by the Company
to be indefinitely reinvested. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits and complexity of the computation, it is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability or benefit that would be associated with such earnings
if such earnings were not deemed to be indefinitely reinvested.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross
unrecognized tax benefits for 2010 and 2009 is as follows:       
    Included in the balance at the end of 2010, are $50 of tax positions for which the ultimate deductibility is highly
certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of these tax positions would not affect the annual effective tax
rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period.   
         76   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 9 Income Taxes (Continued)    
     
       The total amount of such
unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in future periods is $27 and $20 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively.      Accrued interest and penalties related to income tax matters are classified as a component of income tax expense, which is consistent with the classification prior to the adoption of the guidance discussed in Note
1. The Company recognized $7 of income related to interest and penalties in 2010. Accrued interest and penalties are $9 and $20 at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively.      The Company is currently under audit by several taxing jurisdictions in the United States and in several foreign countries. Some audits may conclude in the next 12 months and the unrecognized tax benefits we have
recorded in relation to the audits may differ from actual settlement amounts. It is not possible to estimate the effect, if any, of any amount of such change during the next 12 months to previously recorded uncertain tax positions in connection with
the audits. The Company does not anticipate that there will be a material increase or decrease in the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months.      The Company files income tax returns in the United States, various state and local jurisdictions, in Canada and in several other foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S.
federal, state or local examination for years before fiscal 2007. The Company is currently subject to examination in Canada for fiscal years 2006 to present and in California for fiscal years 2004 to present. No other examinations are believed to be
material.       Note 10 Net Income Per Common and Common Equivalent Share    
  The following table shows the amounts used in computing net income per share and the effect on income and the weighted average number of shares of
dilutive potential common stock (shares in 000 s):       
 
         77   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          
        Note 11 Commitments and
Contingencies        Legal Proceedings       The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation arising from its business and property ownership. The Company is a defendant in the following matters, among others:   
  Cases purportedly brought as class actions on behalf of certain present and former Costco managers in California, in which plaintiffs principally
allege that they have not been properly compensated for overtime work. Scott M. Williams v. Costco Wholesale Corp., United States District Court (San Diego), Case No. 02-CV-2003 NAJ (JFS); Greg Randall v. Costco Wholesale Corp., Superior Court
for the County of Los Angeles, Case No. BC-296369. The parties in Randall agreed on a partial settlement of the action (resolving all claims except for the claim that the Company miscalculated pay), requiring a payment of up to $16 by the Company,
which was substantially paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The miscalculation claim from the Randall case was refiled as a separate action by stipulation, alleging that the Company miscalculated the rates of pay for all department and
ancillary managers in California in violation of Labor Code Section 515(d). On October 2, 2009, the court granted the Company s motion for summary judgment, and that ruling has been appealed. Terry Head v. Costco Wholesale Corp.,
Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles, Case No. BC-409805. In the Williams action, the parties have achieved a settlement. The settlement is immaterial to the Company s consolidated financial statements.   
  On December 26, 2007, another putative class action was filed, also principally alleging denial of overtime compensation. The complaint
alleges misclassification of certain California managers. On May 15, 2008, the court partially granted the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint, dismissing certain claims and refusing to expand the statute of limitations for the
remaining claims. An answer to the complaint was filed on May 27, 2008. Plaintiff s class certification motion was denied, while a Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) collective action was conditionally certified for notice purposes only. The
Company s motion to decertify was granted on September 14, 2010. Jesse Drenckhahn v. Costco Wholesale Corp., United States District Court (Los Angeles), Case No. CV08-1408 FMC (JMJ).   
  A case purportedly brought as a class action on behalf of present and former hourly employees in California, in which the plaintiff principally
alleges that the Company s routine closing procedures and security checks cause employees to incur delays that qualify as uncompensated working time and that deny them statutorily guaranteed meal periods and rest breaks. The complaint was filed
on October 2, 2008, and the Company s motion to dismiss was partially granted. On February 1, 2010, the court denied plaintiff s motion for class certification, and that ruling was appealed. The court granted summary judgment
against the plaintiff on his individual claim on April 19, 2010. Plaintiff subsequently agreed to dismiss the action. Anthony Castaneda v. Costco Wholesale Corp., Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles, Case No. BC-399302. A similar
purported class action was filed on May 15, 2009, on behalf of present and former hourly employees in California, claiming denial of wages and false imprisonment during the post-closing procedures, when security measures allegedly cause
employees to be locked in the warehouses. Mary Pytelewski v. Costco Wholesale Corp., Superior Court for the County of San Diego, Case No. 37-2009-00089654. A similar purported class action was filed on November 20, 2009, in the State of
Washington. Raven Hawk v. Costco Wholesale Corp., King County Superior Court, Case No. 09-242196-0-SEA.      A putative class action,
filed on January 24, 2008, purportedly brought on behalf of two groups of former California employees: an  Unpaid Wage Class  and a  Wage Statement Class.  The  Unpaid
  
         78   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

Wage Class  alleges that the Company improperly deducts employee credit card balances from final paychecks, while the  Wage Statement Class  alleges that final paychecks do not
contain the accurate and itemized information legally required for wage statements. On May 29, 2008, the court granted in part a motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the wage itemization claims. On May 5, 2009, the court denied the
Company s motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff s class certification motion was denied, while an FLSA collective action was conditionally certified for notice purposes only. Eighteen individuals filed consents to join the FLSA collective
actions. Carrie Ward v. Costco Wholesale Corp., United States District Court (Los Angeles), Case No. CV08-02013 FMC (FFM).      On
July 14, 2010, a putative class action was filed alleging that the Company unlawfully failed to pay overtime compensation, denied meal and rest breaks, failed to pay minimum wages, failed to provide accurate wage-itemization statements, and
willfully failed to pay termination wages alleged resulting from misclassification of certain California department managers as exempt employees. On September 3, 2010, the Company removed the case to federal court. Manuel Medrano v. Costco
Wholesale Corp., and Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc., United States District Court (Los Angeles), Case No. CV-10-6626-VBF-JCGx.   
  On July 23, 2010, a putative class action was filed against several defendants, including the Company, alleging that defendants unlawfully
failed to pay overtime compensation, failed to provide accurate wage-itemization statements, failed to pay wages, denied meal and rest breaks, and failed to reimburse for uniforms and expenses. Plaintiffs are temporary promotion employees, known as
 product ambassadors,  hired by various marketing companies (also named defendants), which contract with retailers such as the Company, to staff in-store demonstrations and promotional events. The complaint alleges that the Company is a
 joint employer  of the plaintiffs. Bright v. Dennis Garberg   Assocs., Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. BC399563.      Claims in these actions (other than Hawk) are made under various provisions of the California Labor Code and the California Business and Professions Code. Plaintiffs seek restitution/disgorgement, compensatory
damages, various statutory penalties, punitive damages, interest, and attorneys  fees.      A case brought as a class action on behalf
of certain present and former female managers, in which plaintiffs allege denial of promotion based on gender in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and California state law. Shirley  Rae  Ellis v. Costco Wholesale
Corp., United States District Court (San Francisco), Case No. C-04-3341-MHP. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, interest and attorneys  fees. Class certification was granted by the district court on
January 11, 2007. On May 11, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit granted a petition to hear the Company s appeal of the certification. The appeal was argued on April 14, 2008.   
  Class actions stated to have been brought on behalf of certain present and former Costco members:   
  Numerous putative class actions have been brought around the United States against motor fuel retailers, including the Company, alleging that they
have been overcharging consumers by selling gasoline or diesel that is warmer than 60 degrees without adjusting the volume sold to compensate for heat-related expansion or disclosing the effect of such expansion on the energy equivalent received by
the consumer. The Company is named in the following actions: Raphael Sagalyn, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-430 (D. Md.); Phyllis Lerner, et al., v. Costco Wholesale Corporation, et
  
         79   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

al., Case No. 07-1216 (C.D. Cal.); Linda A. Williams, et al., v. BP Corporation North America, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-179 (M.D. Ala.); James Graham, et al. v. Chevron USA, Inc., et
al., Civil Action No. 07-193 (E.D. Va.); Betty A. Delgado, et al., v. Allsups, Convenience Stores, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-202 (D.N.M.); Gary Kohut, et al. v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-285 (D. Nev.); Mark Rushing, et
al., v. Alon USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 06-7621 (N.D. Cal.); James Vanderbilt, et al., v. BP Corporation North America, Inc., et al., Case No. 06-1052 (W.D. Mo.); Zachary Wilson, et al., v. Ampride, Inc., et al., Case No. 06-2582 (D.
Kan.); Diane Foster, et al., v. BP North America Petroleum, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-02059 (W.D. Tenn.); Mara Redstone, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-20751 (S.D. Fla.); Fred Aguirre, et al. v. BP West Coast Products
LLC, et al., Case No. 07-1534 (N.D. Cal.); J.C. Wash, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al.; Case No. 4:07cv37 (E.D. Mo.); Jonathan Charles Conlin, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al.; Case No. 07 0317 (M.D. Tenn.); William Barker, et
al. v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al.; Case No. 07-cv-00293 (D.N.M.); Melissa J. Couch, et al. v. BP Products North America, Inc., et al., Case No. 07cv291 (E.D. Tex.); S. Garrett Cook, Jr., et al., v. Hess Corporation, et al., Case
No. 07cv750 (M.D. Ala.); Jeff Jenkins, et al. v. Amoco Oil Company, et al., Case No. 07-cv-00661 (D. Utah); and Mark Wyatt, et al., v. B. P. America Corp., et al., Case No. 07-1754 (S.D. Cal.). On June 18, 2007, the Judicial
Panel on Multidistrict Litigation assigned the action, entitled In re Motor Fuel Temperature Sales Practices Litigation, MDL Docket No 1840, to Judge Kathryn Vratil in the United States District Court for the District of Kansas. On February 21,
2008, the court denied a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. On April 12, 2009, the Company agreed to a settlement involving the actions in which it is named as a defendant. Under the settlement, which is subject to final
approval by the court, the Company has agreed, to the extent allowed by law, to install over five years from the effective date of the settlement temperature-correcting dispensers in the States of Alabama, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia,
Kentucky, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, and Virginia. Other than payments to class representatives, the settlement does not provide for cash payments to class members. On August 18, 2009, the court
preliminarily approved the settlement. On August 13, 2010, the court denied plaintiffs  motion for final approval of the settlement. The Company expects that a revised settlement will be submitted for court approval.   
  The Company has been named as a defendant in two purported class actions relating to sales of organic milk. Hesse v. Costco Wholesale Corp., No.
C07-1975 (W.D. Wash.); Snell v. Aurora Dairy Corp., et al., No. 07-CV-2449 (D. Col.). Both actions claim violations of the laws of various states, essentially alleging that milk provided to Costco by its supplier Aurora Dairy Corp. was
improperly labeled  organic.  Plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint on July 18, 2008. With respect to the Company, plaintiffs seek to certify four classes of people who purchased Costco organic milk. Aurora has maintained that it
has held and continues to hold valid organic certifications. The consolidated complaint seeks, among other things, actual, compensatory, statutory, punitive and/or exemplary damages in unspecified amounts, as well as costs and attorneys' fees. On
June 3, 2009, the district court entered an order dismissing with prejudice, among others, all claims against the Company. As a result of an appeal by the plaintiffs, on September 15, 2010, the court of appeals affirmed in part and
reversed in part the rulings of the district court and remanded the matter for further proceedings.      The Company has been named as a
defendant in a purported class action relating to sales of farm-raised salmon. Farm Raised Salmon Coordinated Proceedings, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. JCCP No. 4329. The action alleges that the Company violated California law requiring
farm-raised salmon to be labeled as  color added.  The complaint asserts violations of the California Unfair Com-  
         80   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

petition Law, the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act, and the California False Advertising Law, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks restoration of money acquired by means of unfair
competition or false advertising and compensatory damages in unspecified amounts, injunctive relief remedying the allegedly improper disclosures, and costs and attorneys  fees. A California Superior Court ruling dismissing the action on the
ground that federal law does not permit claims for mislabeling of farm-raised salmon to be asserted by private parties was reversed by the California Supreme Court. The Company has denied the material allegations of the complaint. Plaintiffs 
motion to certify a class is pending.      In Verzani, et ano., v. Costco Wholesale Corp., No. 09 CV 2117 (United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York), a purported nationwide class action, the plaintiffs allege claims for breach of contract and violation of the Washington Consumer Protection Act, based on the failure of the Company to disclose on the label of
its  Shrimp Tray with Cocktail Sauce  the weight of the shrimp in the item as distinct from the accompanying cocktail sauce, lettuce, and lemon wedges. The complaint seeks various forms of damages (including compensatory and treble damages
and disgorgement and restitution), injunctive and declaratory relief, attorneys  fees, costs, and prejudgment interest. On April 21, 2009, the plaintiff filed a motion for a preliminary injunction, seeking to prevent the Company from
selling the shrimp tray unless the Company separately discloses the weight of the shrimp and provides shrimp consistent with the disclosed weight. By orders dated July 29 and August 6, 2009, the court denied the preliminary injunction
motion and dismissed the claim for breach of contract, and on July 21, 2010, the court of appeals summarily affirmed these rulings. On September 28, 2010, the district court denied the motion of one plaintiff to file an amended complaint.
     In Kilano, et. ano, v. Costco Wholesale Corp., No. 2:10-cv-11456-VAR-DAS (United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Michigan), two members purport to represent a class of certain Michigan Executive level-members who received 2% rewards. Plaintiffs allege that the Company  guarantees  that the member will receive rewards of no less than the fifty dollar
difference between Executive and Gold Star membership and that the Company is required to but has failed to automatically reimburse members whose rewards are less than this difference. Plaintiffs allege violations of the Michigan Consumer Protection
Act, breach of contract, and unjust enrichment. They seek compensatory and statutory damages, injunctive relief, costs, and attorneys  fees. The Company has filed an answer denying the material allegations of the complaint.   
  Three shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed, ostensibly on behalf of the Company, against certain of its current and former officers and
directors, relating to the Company s stock option grants. One suit, Sandra Donnelly v. James Sinegal, et al., Case No. 08-2-23783-4 SEA (King County Superior Court), was filed in Washington state court on or about July 17, 2008.
Plaintiff alleged, among other things, that individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company by  backdating  grants of stock options issued between 1997 and 2005 to various current and former executives, allegedly in
violation of the Company's shareholder-approved stock option plans. The complaint asserted claims for unjust enrichment, breach of fiduciary duties, and waste of corporate assets, and seeks damages, corporate governance reforms, an accounting,
rescission of certain stock option grants, restitution, and certain injunctive and declaratory relief, including the declaration of a constructive trust for certain stock options and proceeds derived from the exercise of such options. On
April 3, 2009, on the Company s motion the court dismissed the action, following the plaintiff s disclosure that she had ceased to own Costco common stock, a requirement for her to pursue a derivative action. The second
  
         81   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

action, Pirelli Armstrong Tire Corp. Retiree Medical Benefits Trust v. James Sinegal, et al., Case No. 2:08-cv-01450-TSZ (United States District Court for the Western District of
Washington), was filed on or about September 29, 2008, and named as defendants all but one of the Company s directors and certain of its senior executives. Plaintiff alleged that defendants approved the issuance of backdated stock options,
concealed the backdating of stock options, and refused to vindicate the Company s rights by pursuing those who obtained improper incentive compensation. The complaint asserted claims under both state law and the federal securities laws and
sought relief comparable to that sought in the state court action described above. Plaintiff further alleged that the misconduct occurred from at least 1997, and continued until 2006, and that as a result virtually all of the Company s SEC
filings and financial and other public statements were false and misleading throughout this entire period (including, but not limited to, each of the Company s annual financial statements for fiscal years 1997 through 2007 inclusive). Plaintiff
alleged, among other things, that defendants caused the Company to falsely represent that options were granted with exercise prices that were not less than the fair market value of the Company s stock on the date of grant and issuance when they
were not, to conceal that its internal controls and accounting controls were grossly inadequate, and to grossly overstate its earnings. In addition, it was further alleged that when the Company announced in October 2006 that it had investigated its
historical option granting practices and had not found fraud that announcement itself was false and misleading because, among other reasons, it failed to report that defendants had consistently received options granted at monthly lows for the grant
dates and falsely suggested that backdating did not occur. Plaintiff also alleged that false and misleading statements inflated the market price of the Company s common stock and that certain individual defendants sold, and the Company
purchased, shares at inflated prices. The third action, Daniel Buckfire v. James D. Sinegal, et al., No. 2:09-cv-00893-TSZ (United States District Court for the Western District of Washington), was filed on or about June 29, 2009, and
contains allegations substantially similar to those in the Pirelli action. On August 12, 2009, the court entered an order consolidating the Pirelli and Buckfire actions. On October 2, 2009, plaintiffs Pirelli and Buckfire filed a
consolidated amended complaint. That complaint is largely similar to previous filings, except that: it challenges additional grants (in 1995, 1996, and 2004) and alleges that additional federal securities law filings, including proxy statements and
SEC Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and related officer certifications (generally from 1996 through and including 2008) were false and misleading for failure to adequately disclose circumstances surrounding grants of options; and now includes as defendants
only the following individuals: James D. Sinegal, Richard A. Galanti, Jeffrey H. Brotman, Hamilton E. James, John W. Meisenbach, Jill S. Ruckelshaus, Charles T. Munger, Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., Richard D. DiCerchio, and David S. Petterson. On
November 16, 2009, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint on various grounds, including that plaintiffs failed properly to allege why a pre-suit demand had not been made on the board of directors. On September 20,
2010, a special committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved an agreement in principle with the plaintiffs that would terminate the litigation. The agreement, which is subject among other things to federal district court
approval, provides that the Company will pay an amount not to exceed $4.85 million in attorneys  fees to plaintiffs  counsel and will adopt or maintain certain governance, control and other process changes.   
  On October 4, 2006, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office for the Central District of
California, seeking records relating to the Company s receipt and handling of hazardous merchandise returned by Costco members and other records. The Company is cooperating with the inquiry and at this time cannot reasonably estimate any loss
that may arise from this matter.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    
     
       The Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) issued an Information Request to the Company, dated November 1, 2007, under the Clean Air Act. The EPA is seeking records regarding warehouses in the states of Arizona, California, Hawaii, and Nevada relating to compliance with
regulations concerning air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment. On March 4, 2009, the Company was advised by the Department of Justice that the Department was prepared to allege that the Company has committed at least nineteen violations
of the leak-repair requirements of 40 C.F.R.   82.156(i) and at least seventy-four violations of the recordkeeping requirements of 40 C.F.R.   82.166(k), (m) at warehouses in these four states. The Company has responded to these
allegations, is engaged in communications with the Department about these and additional allegations made by letter dated September 10, 2009, and has entered into a tolling agreement. An Information Request dated January 14, 2008, has also
been received concerning a warehouse in New Hampshire. Substantial penalties may be levied for violations of the Clean Air Act. In April 2008 the Company received an information request from the South Coast Air Quality Management District concerning
certain locations in Southern California. The Company has responded to that request. The Company is cooperating with these inquiries and at this time cannot reasonably estimate any loss that might arise from these matters.   
  On October 7, 2009, the District Attorneys for San Diego, San Joaquin and Solano Counties filed a complaint, People of the State of California
v. Costco Wholesale Corp., et. al No. 37-2009-00099912 (Superior Court for the County of San Diego), alleging on information and belief that the Company has violated and continues to violate provisions of the California Health and Safety Code
and the Business and Professions Code through the use of certain spill clean-up materials at its gasoline stations. Relief sought includes, among other things, requests for preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, civil penalties, costs and
attorneys  fees. On September 2, 2010, the court dismissed the complaint without prejudice. An amended complaint was filed on September 13, 2010.      The Company has received notices from most states stating that they have appointed an agent to conduct an examination of the books and records of the Company to determine whether it has complied with state
unclaimed property laws. The States of Washington and New York are conducting such examinations on their own behalf. In addition to seeking the turnover of unclaimed property subject to escheat laws, the states may seek interest, penalties, costs of
examinations, and other relief.      Except where indicated otherwise above, a reasonable estimate of the possible loss or range of loss
cannot be made at this time for the matters described. The Company does not believe that any pending claim, proceeding or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position;
however, it is possible that an unfavorable outcome of some or all of the matters, however unlikely, could result in a charge that might be material to the results of an individual fiscal quarter.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          
        Note 12 Segment Reporting
      The Company and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in the operation of membership warehouses in the United States, Canada, the
United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, through majority-owned subsidiaries in Taiwan and Korea, and through a 50%-owned joint-venture in Mexico. The Company s reportable segments are largely based on management s organization of the operating
segments for operational decisions and assessments of financial performance, which considers geographic locations. The investment in the Mexico joint-venture is only included in total assets under United States Operations in the table below, as it
is accounted for under the equity method and its operations are not consolidated in the Company s financial statements. The material accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1. All material inter-segment net
sales and expenses have been eliminated in computing total revenue and operating income.       
     
  Certain home office operating expenses are incurred on behalf of the Company s Canadian and other international operations, but are included in
the United States operations above because those costs are not allocated internally and generally come under the responsibility of the Company s United States management team.   
         84   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          
        Note 13 Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)       The two tables that follow reflect the unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2010 and 2009.

(1)  
    Includes a $22 charge related to a change in employee benefits whereby certain unused time off will now be paid annually to our employees.
     
         85   

Table of Contents  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (dollars in millions, except share data) (Continued)          

    Note 13 Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) (Continued)    

(2)  
    Includes a $27 decrease to membership fees related to a litigation settlement concerning our membership renewal policy.      
         86   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT INDEX       The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or are incorporated herein by reference. Where an exhibit is incorporated by reference, the number that follows the description of the
exhibit indicates the document to which cross-reference is made. See the end of this exhibit index for a listing of cross-reference documents.       

87   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.    
      
     Description     

101.SCH**  
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document    

101.CAL**  
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document    

101.DEF**  
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase    

101.LAB**  
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document    

101.PRE**  
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document     

*  
    Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.          

**  
    Users of this data are advised that, pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration
statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and otherwise are not subject to liability.      

1.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on August 30, 1999.

2.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal year ended
September 3, 2000.          

4.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Price/Costco, Inc. for the fiscal year ended September 3,
1995.          

5.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Companies, Inc. for the fiscal year ended August 30,
1998.          

7.  
    Incorporated by reference to Annex A to Schedule 14A of Costco Wholesale Corporation filed December 13, 1999.      

9.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal first quarter ended
November 20, 2005.          

10.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal third quarter ended
May 7, 2006.          

11.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal second quarter ended
February 18, 2007.          

12.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on January 31, 2008.

13.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on November 16, 2009.

14.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on August 24, 2010.

15.  
    Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal year ended
August 31, 2008.          

16.  
    Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed as part of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on March 17, 2010.
           
   88   

<EX-10.6.1>
 2
 dex1061.htm
 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

Executive Employment Agreement 

Exhibit 10.6.1        Executive Employment Agreement between        James D. Sinegal and Costco Wholesale Corporation
      As of August 30, 2010      Jim Sinegal      999 Lake Drive   
  Issaquah, WA 98027      Dear Jim:      This letter agreement confirms the terms of your employment with Costco
Wholesale Corporation (the  Company ):       

1.  
     Employment.  The Company employs you as its Chief Executive Officer.      

2.  
     Employment Term.  The terms of this letter agreement cover one year, beginning August 30, 2010, and coinciding with the Company s fiscal year
2011, unless otherwise terminated as provided below. The parties may renew this letter agreement from year-to-year upon agreement.          

3.  
     Salary and Benefits.           

(a)  
    You will receive a base salary of $350,000 for fiscal year 2011. The base salary will be paid to you in accordance with the Company s standard payroll
practices.          

(b)  
    You will be eligible for a bonus of up to $200,000. The amount of any bonus will be determined by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee, and
will be paid to you in accordance with the Company s standard practices.          

(c)  
    You will be eligible for an equity award under the Company s Fourth Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan or its successor plan. The Board of Directors or
the Compensation Committee will determine the amount of any grant.          

(d)  
    All payments to you will be subject to withholding for taxes and other applicable withholding requirements.      

(e)  
    You will be eligible to participate in the Company s employee benefit programs, in accordance with the terms and conditions of those programs.

4.  
     Termination.  The Company will have the right to terminate your employment at any time for  cause,  as determined under applicable law and
policies of the Company. You may terminate your employment at any time upon not less than sixty (60) days prior written notice.      

5.  
     Miscellaneous.  This letter agreement represents our complete agreement on these subjects. We can only amend this letter agreement by signing a written
amendment. This letter will be governed by Washington law in all respects.         If you agree with the
terms contained in this letter, please sign the enclosed copy of this letter and return it to me.        

Sincerely,    

Compensation Committee of the     Board of Directors of     Costco Wholesale Corporation    

By:   
     
    /s/ BENJAMIN S. CARSON, SR., M.D.    

Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., M.D., Chair     
   Acknowledged and agreed:   

</EX-10.6.1>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21.1        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY        COSTCO WHOLESALE    
   CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES        

Subsidiaries    
      
     State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or
Organization    
      
     Name under Which Subsidiary   
   Does Business     
 
    Costco Canada Holdings Inc.   
      
  Canadian Federal  
      
    Costco Canada Holdings Inc.     
 
    Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc.   
      
  California  
      
    Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc.    
 
    Costco Wholesale United Kingdom Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
    Costco Wholesale United Kingdom Ltd.    
 
    Costco Wholesale Canada Ltd.   
      
  Canadian Federal  
      
    Costco Wholesale Canada, Ltd., Costco Wholesale    
 
    NW Re Ltd.   
      
  Arizona  
      
  NW Re Ltd.   
 
    PriceCostco International, Inc.   
      
  Nevada  
      
    PriceCostco International, Inc.           

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.1        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors   
  Costco Wholesale Corporation:      We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 033-50799, 333-82782, 333-120523, 333-129172, 333-135052, 333-150014, 333-151748, and 333-165550) on Form S-8 and the registration statement (No. 333-140651) on Form
S-3 of Costco Wholesale Corporation of our reports dated October 15, 2010, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Costco Wholesale Corporation as of August 29, 2010 and August 30, 2009, and the related consolidated statements
of income, equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the 52-week periods ended August 29, 2010, August 30, 2009 and August 31, 2008, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
August 29, 2010, which reports appear in the August 29, 2010 annual report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation.      Our
report on the consolidated financial statements refers to the Company s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements An Amendment of ARB 51
 (included in FASB Topic 810,  Consolidation ), effective August 31, 2009.   
  /s/    KPMG LLP      Seattle, Washington      October 15, 2010   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13(A) -14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

Rule 13(a) -14(a) Certifications 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATIONS       I, James D. Sinegal, certify that:   

1)  
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation;      

2)  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3)  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4)  
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      

c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;          

d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5)  
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):          

a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over
financial reporting.         October 15, 2010   

/s/    J AMES  D. S INEGAL     
 
    James D. Sinegal    
 
    Chief Executive Officer           

CERTIFICATIONS    
  I, Richard A. Galanti, certify that:       

1)  
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation;      

2)  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3)  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4)  
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      

c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;          

d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5)  
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):          

a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over
financial reporting.         October 15, 2010   

/s/    R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI     
 
    Richard A. Galanti    
 
    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

Section 1350 Certifications 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION       In connection with the Annual Report of Costco Wholesale Corporation (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ending August 29, 2010 (the  Report ), I, James D. Sinegal, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, that:   

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ J AMES  D. S INEGAL    
     
  Date: October 15, 2010   
 
  James D. Sinegal  

Chief Executive Officer  
     
       A signed original of this written statement has been provided to and will be retained by Costco Wholesale
Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

CERTIFICATION       In connection with the Annual Report of Costco Wholesale Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ending August 29, 2010 (the  Report ), I, Richard A. Galanti, Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ R ICHARD  A. G ALANTI    
     
  Date: October 15, 2010   
 
  Richard A. Galanti  

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  
     
       A signed original of this written statement has been provided to and will be retained by Costco Wholesale
Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 7
 cost-20100829.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 8
 cost-20100829.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 9
 cost-20100829_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 10
 cost-20100829_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 11
 cost-20100829_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 12
 cost-20100829_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

