<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120224_10-K_edgar_data_1413329_0001193125-12-076983_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18341121</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>424172</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4381506</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3489589</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6196084</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3382314</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>163</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-076983.hdr.sgml : 20120224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120224092903
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-076983
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Philip Morris International Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001413329
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CIGARETTES [2111]
		IRS NUMBER:				133435103
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			VA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-33708
		FILM NUMBER:		12635922

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		120 PARK AVENUE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(917) 663-2000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		120 PARK AVENUE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-076983.txt : 20120224

10-K
 1
 d258717d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              FORM 10-K          
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011       OR    
 
  For the transition period from                  to
                             Commission File Number: 001-33708              PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Virginia   
     
   13-3435103    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     

120 Park Avenue, New York, New York   
     
   10017    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)    
     917-663-2000        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   
          Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None            Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes           No            
        Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.  Yes           No                  
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes           No                     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T; during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes           No                     Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.            
        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer           
      
  Accelerated filer           
      
  Non-accelerated filer           
      
  Smaller reporting company            

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   
          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes           No                  
  As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $118 billion
based on the closing sale price of the common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.       
           DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document     
      
   Parts Into Which Incorporated      

Portions of the registrant s annual report to shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the  2011 Annual Report )  
      
  Parts I, II, and IV   

Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 9, 2012, to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on or about March 30, 2012  
      
  Part III   

Table of Contents  

     TABLE OF CONTENTS       

Page   

PART I     

Item 1.   
      
   Business   
      
  1   

Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   
      
  9   

Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  14   

Item 2.   
      
   Properties   
      
  14   

Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  14   

Item 4.   
      
   Mine Safety Disclosures   
      
  25   

PART II     

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  26   

Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  27   

Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  27   

Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  27   

Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  27   

Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  27   

Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  27   

Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   
      
  27   

PART III     

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
  28   

Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   
      
  29   

Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  29   

Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  29   

Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
      
  29   

PART IV      

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  30   

Signatures     
      
  36   
          In this report,  PMI,   we, 
 us  and  our  refers to Philip Morris International Inc. and subsidiaries.   

Table of Contents  

      PART I          

Item 1.   
      Business.                
    (a) General Development of Business           
   General          
  Philip Morris International Inc. is a Virginia holding company incorporated in 1987. Our subsidiaries and affiliates and their licensees are engaged
in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in markets outside of the United States of America. Our products are sold in approximately 180 countries and, in many of these countries, they hold the number one or number two
market share position. We have a wide range of premium, mid-price and low-price brands. Our portfolio comprises both international and local brands.         
  Our portfolio of international and local brands is led by  Marlboro , the world s best selling international cigarette, which accounted
for approximately 33% of our total 2011 shipment volume.  Marlboro  is complemented in the premium-price category by  Merit ,  Parliament  and  Virginia Slims . Our leading mid-price brands are  L M  and
 Chesterfield . Other leading international brands include  Bond Street ,  Lark ,  Muratti ,  Next ,  Philip Morris  and  Red   White .   
        We also own a number of important local cigarette brands, such as
 Sampoerna A ,  Dji Sam Soe  and  Sampoerna Kretek  in Indonesia,  Fortune ,  Champion  and  Hope  in the Philippines,  Diana  in Italy,  Optima  and  Apollo-Soyuz  in Russia,  Morven Gold  in
Pakistan,  Boston  in Colombia,  Belmont, Canadian Classics  and  Number 7  in Canada,  Best  and  Classic  in Serbia,  f6  in Germany,  Delicados  in Mexico,  Assos  in Greece and  Petra  in the Czech
Republic and Slovakia. While there are a number of markets where local brands remain important, international brands are expanding their share in numerous markets. With international brands contributing approximately 70% of our shipment volume in
2011, we are well-positioned to continue to benefit from this trend.         
   Separation from Altria Group, Inc.          
  We were a wholly owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. ( Altria ) until the distribution of all of our shares owned by Altria (the
 Spin-off ) was made on March 28, 2008 (the  Distribution Date ).             Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements             During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we expanded our business with the following transactions:         
   2011:          
  In June 2011, we completed the acquisition of a cigarette business in Jordan, consisting primarily of cigarette manufacturing assets and
inventories, for $42 million. In January 2011, we acquired a cigar business, consisting primarily of trademarks in the Australian and New Zealand markets, for $20 million.   
        Effective January 1, 2011, we established a new business structure
with Vietnam National Tobacco Corporation ( Vinataba ) in Vietnam, further developing our existing joint venture with Vinataba through the licensing of  Marlboro  and establishing a PMI-controlled branch for the building of our
brands.   
         -1-   

Table of Contents  

    2010:    
        In February 2010, our affiliate, Philip Morris Philippines
Manufacturing Inc. ( PMPMI ), and Fortune Tobacco Corporation ( FTC ) combined their respective business activities by transferring selected assets and liabilities of PMPMI and FTC to a new company called PMFTC Inc.
( PMFTC ). PMPMI and FTC hold equal economic interests in PMFTC, while we manage the day-to-day operations of PMFTC and have a majority of its Board of Directors. The establishment of PMFTC permits both parties to benefit from their
complementary brand portfolios, as well as cost synergies from the resulting integration of manufacturing, distribution and procurement, and the further development and advancement of tobacco growing in the Philippines.   
        In June 2010, we announced that our affiliate, Philip Morris Brasil
Industria e Comercio Ltda. ( PMB ), would begin directly sourcing tobacco leaf from approximately 17,000 tobacco farmers in Southern Brazil. This initiative has enhanced PMI s direct involvement in the supply chain and provides
approximately 10% of PMI s global leaf requirements. The vertically integrated structure was made possible following separate agreements with two leaf suppliers in Brazil, Alliance One Brasil Exportadora de Tabacos Ltda. ( AOB ) and
Universal Leaf Tabacos Ltda. ( ULT ). These agreements resulted in AOB and ULT assigning approximately 9,000 and 8,000 contracts with tobacco farmers to PMB, respectively. As a result, PMB offered employment to more than 200 employees,
most of them agronomy specialists, and acquired related assets in Southern Brazil. The purchase price for the net assets and the contractual relationships was $83 million.   
         2009:    
        In September 2009, we acquired Swedish Match South Africa
(Proprietary) Limited for ZAR 1.93 billion (approximately $256 million based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of the acquisition), including acquired cash.   
        In February 2009, we purchased the  Petter es  tobacco
business for $209 million, which included fine-cut trademarks primarily sold in Norway and Sweden.         
  In February 2009, we also entered into an agreement with Swedish Match AB ( SWMA ) to establish an exclusive joint venture to
commercialize Swedish style snus and other smoke-free tobacco products worldwide, outside of Scandinavia and the United States. We and SWMA licensed an agreed list of trademarks and intellectual property exclusively to the joint venture. The joint
venture started operations on April 1, 2009.             Source
of Funds   Dividends             We are a legal entity
separate and distinct from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our right, and thus the right of our creditors and stockholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the prior
claims of creditors of such subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of our company itself as a creditor may be recognized. As a holding company, our principal sources of funds, including funds to make payment on our debt securities, are from
the receipt of dividends and repayment of debt from our subsidiaries. Our principal wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other
distributions with respect to their common stock.   
         -2-   

Table of Contents  

     (b) Financial Information About Segments              We divide our markets into four geographic regions, which constitute our segments for financial reporting purposes:

The European Union ( EU ) Region is headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland and covers all the EU countries except for Slovenia, Bulgaria and Romania,
and also comprises Switzerland, Norway and Iceland, which are linked to the EU through trade agreements;            

The Eastern Europe, Middle East   Africa ( EEMA ) Region is also headquartered in Lausanne and covers the Balkans (including Slovenia,
Bulgaria and Romania), the former Soviet Union (excluding Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania), Mongolia, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa and our international duty free business;      

The Asia Region is headquartered in Hong Kong and covers all other Asian markets as well as Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands; and

The Latin America   Canada Region is headquartered in New York and covers the South American continent, Central America, Mexico, the Caribbean and
Canada.               Net revenues
and operating companies income        (together with a reconciliation to
operating income) attributable to each such segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 12.  Segment Reporting  to our consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual
Report. See Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  for a discussion of our operating results by business segment.   
        The relative percentages of operating companies income attributable to
each reportable segment were as follows:       
          We use the term net revenues to refer
to our operating revenues from the sale of our products, net of sales and promotion incentives. Our net revenues and operating income are affected by various factors, including the volume of products we sell, the price of our products, changes in
currency exchange rates and the mix of products we sell. Mix is a term used to refer to the proportionate value of premium-price brands to mid-price or low-price brands in any given market (product mix). Mix can also refer to the proportion of
shipment volume in more profitable markets versus shipment volume in less profitable markets (geographic mix). We often collect excise taxes from our customers and then remit them to local governments, and, in those circumstances, we include excise
taxes in our net revenues and excise taxes on products. Our cost of sales consists principally of tobacco leaf, non-tobacco raw materials, labor and manufacturing costs.   
        Our marketing, administration and research costs include the costs of
marketing our products, other costs generally not related to the manufacture of our products (including general corporate    

Our management evaluates segment performance and allocates resources based on operating companies income, which we define as operating income before general corporate expenses
and amortization of intangibles. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  to our consolidated financial statements and are incorporated herein by
reference to the 2011 Annual Report.     
         -3-   

Table of Contents  

expenses), and costs incurred to develop new products. The most significant components of our marketing, administration and research costs are marketing expenses and general and administrative
expenses.              (c) Narrative Description of Business
             Our subsidiaries and affiliates and their
licensees manufacture, market and sell tobacco products outside the United States.            Our total cigarette shipments increased 1.7% in 2011 to 915.3 billion units. We estimate that international cigarette market shipments were approximately 5.7 trillion units in 2011, a 1.1% increase over 2010.
We estimate that our reported share of the international cigarette market (which is defined as worldwide cigarette volume excluding the United States) was approximately 16.0% in each of 2011 and 2010 and 15.4% in 2009. Including the 2010 business
combination with FTC on a pro-forma basis, our total share of the international cigarette market was 16.2% and 16.5% in 2010 and 2009, respectively.         
  Excluding the People s Republic of China ( PRC ), we estimate that our reported share of the international cigarette market was
approximately 28.1%, 27.5%, and 25.8% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Including the 2010 business combination with FTC on a pro-forma basis, our total share of the international cigarette market, excluding the PRC, was 27.8% and 27.7% in 2010
and 2009, respectively.            Shipments of our principal
cigarette brand,  Marlboro , increased 0.9% in 2011, and represented approximately 9.2% of the international cigarette market, excluding the PRC, in 2011, 9.1% in 2010 and 9.0% in 2009.            We have a cigarette market share of at least 15%, and, in a number of instances substantially more than 15%, in 97
markets, including Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey and Ukraine.         
  References to total international cigarette market, total cigarette market, total market and market shares in this Form 10-K are our estimates based
on a number of internal and external sources.             Distribution and Sales
            The distribution and sales strategy for our products
is tailored to the characteristics of each market, including retailer needs and capabilities, the wholesale infrastructure, our competitive position, costs and the regulatory framework. Our goal is to achieve speed, efficiency and widespread
availability of our products, while contributing to the success of our direct and indirect trade partners. The four main types of distribution that we use across the globe, often simultaneously in a given market, are:   

Direct Sales and Distribution ( DSD ), where we have set up our own distribution directly to retailers;      

Distribution through single independent distributors who are responsible for distribution in a single market;      

Exclusive Zonified Distribution ( EZD ), where distributors have an exclusive territory within a market to enable them to obtain a suitable return on
their investment; and            

Distribution through wholesalers, where we supply either national or regional wholesalers that then service the retail trade.      
         -4-   

Table of Contents  

   In many countries we also directly service key accounts, including gas stations, retail chains and
supermarkets.            Our distribution and sales systems are
supported by sales forces that total approximately 16,700 employees worldwide. Our sales forces are well trained and recognized by trade surveys for their professionalism. They have over time developed a long-lasting relationship with the wholesale
and retail trade, thus providing us with a superior presence at the point of sale, reflected by our leading market share position in many markets. In addition, our consumer engagement teams work together with the sales forces to engage adult smokers
in promotional activities and to support new product launches where permitted by law.            Our products are marketed and promoted through various media and channels, including, where permitted by law, point of sale communications, brand events, access-restricted Web sites, print, new digital technologies
and direct communication to verified adult smokers. Our direct communication with verified adult smokers utilizes mail, email and other electronic communication tools. Promotional activities include, where permitted by law, competitions, invitations
to events, interactive programs, consumer premiums and price promotions. To support advertising and promotional activities in the markets, we have a dedicated consumer engagement group that develops innovative engagement tools based on the latest
technologies and consumer trends.             Competition    
        We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our
business. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, taste, innovation, packaging, service, marketing, advertising and retail price. Our competitors include three large international tobacco companies and
several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, state-owned tobacco enterprises, principally in Algeria, Egypt, the PRC, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Industry consolidation and privatizations of state-owned enterprises have led
to an overall increase in competitive pressures. Some competitors have different profit and volume objectives, and some international competitors are less susceptible to changes in currency exchange rates. We compete predominantly with American type
blended cigarette brands, such as  Marlboro ,  L M  and  Chesterfield , which are the most popular across many of our markets. We seek to compete in all profitable retail price categories, although our brand portfolio is weighted
towards the premium category.             Procurement and Raw Materials
            We purchase tobacco leaf of various grades and styles
throughout the world, the majority through independent tobacco suppliers. We also contract directly with farmers in several countries including Brazil, the United States, Pakistan, Argentina, the Philippines, Poland, Italy, Colombia, Ecuador,
Mexico, the Dominican Republic and Kazakhstan.            As discussed
above, in June 2010, we announced that our affiliate, PMB, began directly sourcing tobacco leaf from tobacco farmers in Southern Brazil. This initiative enhances PMI s direct involvement in the supply chain and provides approximately 10% of
PMI s global leaf requirements.            Our largest sources of
supply are:         

The United States for Virginia (flue-cured) and Burley tobaccos, particularly higher quality varieties for use in leading international brands;

Brazil, particularly for Virginia tobaccos but also for Burley;      

Indonesia, mostly for domestic use in kretek products;      
         -5-   

Table of Contents  

Turkey and Greece, mostly for Oriental; and            

Argentina and Malawi, mostly for Burley.            
  We believe that there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy our current and anticipated production requirements.
           In addition to tobacco leaf, we purchase a wide variety of
direct materials from a total of approximately 430 suppliers. Our top ten suppliers of direct materials combined represent more than 55% of our total direct materials purchases. The three most significant direct materials that we purchase are
printed paper board used in packaging, acetate tow used in filter making and fine paper used in cigarette manufacturing. In addition, the supply of cloves is of particular importance to our Indonesian business.   
         Business Environment             Information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Operating Results by Business Segment Business Environment  on pages 24 to 32 of the 2011 Annual Report and made a part hereof.
            Other Matters    
         Customers    
        None of our business segments is dependent upon a single customer or a
few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.             Employees             As of
December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 78,100 people worldwide, including employees under temporary contracts and hourly paid part-time staff. Our businesses are subject to a number of laws and regulations relating to our relationship
with our employees. Generally, these laws and regulations are specific to the location of each business. In addition, in accordance with European Union requirements, we have established a European Works Council composed of management and elected
members of our workforce. We believe that our relations with our employees and their representative organizations are excellent.         
   Executive Officers of the Registrant          
  The disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth under the heading  Executive Officers as of February 24, 2012  in
Item 10 of Part III of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.             Research and Development             One of the top priorities of our research efforts is the development of a variety of innovative Next Generation Products (NGPs) that have the potential to reduce the risk of smoking-related diseases in comparison
to conventional cigarettes. In developing these products in its state-of-the-art R D facilities, PMI draws upon a team of world-class scientists from a broad spectrum of scientific disciplines. In 2011, we further enhanced our product
development capabilities by acquiring the global patent rights for a new technology that employs a unique method for delivering a nicotine-containing aerosol. Prior to commercialization, we are employing rigorous scientific methodologies to evaluate
and substantiate the ability of these products to reduce the individual risk of smoking-related diseases   
         -6-   

Table of Contents  

compared to conventional tobacco products and their impact on the population as a whole. We cannot predict whether we will succeed in developing commercially viable NGPs or whether regulators
will permit the marketing of NGPs with claims of reduced risk.            We also conduct research to support and reinforce our conventional product business. We seek to be at the forefront of innovation. Significant investments have been made in new product development efforts for
conventional products, resulting in a wide range of product enhancements and the launch of innovative new products. Further, with the increase in product regulations, support for the conventional cigarette business has expanded and is expected to
become more complex, requiring additional capacity for analysis and testing in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.         
  Finally, working through biotechnology partners, we are conducting research and development on technology platforms that can potentially lead to the
development of alternative uses of tobacco.            The research
and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is set forth in Note 14.  Additional Information  to our consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report.
            Intellectual Property    
        Our trademarks are valuable assets and their protection and reputation
are essential to us. We own the trademark rights to all of our principal brands, including  Marlboro , or have the right to use them in all countries where we use them.   
        In addition, we have more than 2,700 granted patents worldwide and
about as many pending patent applications. Our patent portfolio, as a whole, is material to our business. However, no one patent, or group of related patents, is material to us. We also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and
other intellectual property rights that are not registered.         
  Effective January 1, 2008, PMI entered into an Intellectual Property Agreement with Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ). The
Intellectual Property Agreement governs the ownership of intellectual property between PMI and PM USA. Ownership of the jointly funded intellectual property has been allocated as follows:         

PMI owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property outside the United States, its territories and possessions; and      

PM USA owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property in the United States, its territories and possessions.      
        Ownership of intellectual property related to patent applications and
resulting patents based solely on the jointly-funded intellectual property, regardless of when filed or issued, will be exclusive to PM USA in the United States, its territories and possessions and exclusive to PMI everywhere else in the world.
           The Intellectual Property Agreement contains provisions
concerning intellectual property that is independently developed by us or PM USA following the Distribution Date. For the first two years following the Distribution Date, if we or PM USA independently developed new intellectual property that
satisfied certain conditions and was incorporated into a new product or included in a patent application, the new intellectual property is subject to the geographic allocation described above. For ten years following the Distribution Date,
independently developed intellectual property may be subject to rights under certain circumstances that would allow either us or PM USA a priority position to obtain the rights to the new intellectual property from the other party, with the price
and other terms to be negotiated.   
         -7-   

Table of Contents  

   In the event of a dispute between us and PM USA under the Intellectual Property Agreement, we have
agreed with PM USA to submit the dispute first to negotiation between our and PM USA s senior executives and then to binding arbitration.         
   Seasonality          
  Our business segments are not significantly affected by seasonality, although in certain markets cigarette consumption trends rise during the summer
months due to longer daylight time and tourism.             Environmental Regulation
            We are subject to applicable international, national
and local environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. We have specific programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements and reduce wastage as well as water and
energy consumption. We have developed and implemented a consistent environmental and occupational health and safety ( EHS ) management system, which involves policies, standard practices and procedures at all our manufacturing centers. We
also conduct regular safety assessments at our offices, warehouses and car fleet organizations. Furthermore, we have engaged an external certification body to validate the effectiveness of our EHS management system at all our manufacturing centers
around the world, in accordance with internationally recognized standards. Our subsidiaries expect to continue to make investments in order to drive improved performance and maintain compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We assess and
report the compliance status of all our legal entities on a regular basis. Based on the management and controls we have in place, environmental expenditures have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated
results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive position.              (d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas           
  The amounts of net revenues and long-lived assets attributable to each of our geographic segments for each of the last three fiscal years are set
forth in Note 12.  Segment Reporting  to our consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report.         
    (e) Available Information           
  We are required to file with the SEC annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Investors may read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy
and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access our SEC filings.   
        We make available free of charge on, or through, our Web site
(www.pmi.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Investors can access our filings with the SEC by visiting www.pmi.com.   
        The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be,
a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.   
         -8-   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
      Risk Factors.                
   The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in
this Annual Report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual
Report.              Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements    
        We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking
statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to stockholders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as  strategy, 
 expects,   continues,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   will,   estimates,   intends,   projects,   goals,   targets  and other words
of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.         
  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions.
Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from
those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in our securities. In connection with the  safe harbor  provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made
by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the  Business Environment  section. You should understand
that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement
that we may make from time to time except in the normal course of our public disclosure obligations.             Risks Related to Our Business and Industry              Cigarettes are subject to substantial taxes. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted in numerous jurisdictions. These
tax increases may disproportionately affect our profitability and make us less competitive versus certain of our competitors.          
  Tax regimes, including excise taxes, sales taxes and import duties, can disproportionately affect the retail price of manufactured cigarettes versus
other tobacco products, or disproportionately affect the relative retail price of our manufactured cigarette brands versus cigarette brands manufactured by certain of our competitors. Because our portfolio is weighted toward the premium-price
manufactured cigarette category, tax regimes based on sales price can place us at a competitive disadvantage in certain markets. As a result, our volume and profitability may be adversely affected in these markets.   
        Increases in cigarette taxes are expected to continue to have an
adverse impact on our sales of cigarettes, due to resulting lower consumption levels, a shift in sales from manufactured cigarettes to other tobacco products and from the premium-price to the mid-price or low-price cigarette categories, where we may
be under-represented, from local sales to legal cross-border purchases of lower price products, or to illicit products such as contraband and counterfeit.   
         -9-   

Table of Contents  

    Our business faces significant governmental action aimed at increasing regulatory requirements with the goal of
preventing the use of tobacco products.             Governmental
actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced industry volume in many of our markets, and we expect that such factors will continue to reduce consumption levels
and will increase downtrading and the risk of counterfeiting, contraband and cross-border purchases. Significant regulatory developments will take place over the next few years in most of our markets, driven principally by the World Health
Organization s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control ( FCTC ). The FCTC is the first international public health treaty on tobacco, and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation. The FCTC has led to
increased efforts by tobacco control advocates and public health organizations to reduce the palatability and attractiveness of tobacco products to adult smokers. Regulatory initiatives that have been proposed, introduced or enacted include:

the levying of substantial and increasing tax and duty charges;      

restrictions or bans on advertising, marketing and sponsorship;      

the display of larger health warnings, graphic health warnings and other labeling requirements;      

restrictions on packaging design, including the use of colors, and plain packaging;            

restrictions or bans on the display of tobacco product packaging at the point of sale and restrictions or bans on cigarette vending machines;

requirements regarding testing, disclosure and performance standards for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke constituents;

disclosure, restrictions, or bans of tobacco product ingredients;      

increased restrictions on smoking in public and work places and, in some instances, in private places and outdoors;      

elimination of duty free allowances for travelers; and      

encouraging litigation against tobacco companies.            
  Our operating income could be significantly affected by regulatory initiatives resulting in a significant decrease in demand for our brands, in
particular requirements that lead to a commoditization of tobacco products, as well as any significant increase in the cost of complying with new regulatory requirements.   
         Litigation related to tobacco use and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke
( ETS ) could substantially reduce our profitability and could severely impair our liquidity.          
  There is litigation related to tobacco products pending in certain jurisdictions. Damages claimed in some tobacco-related litigation are significant
and, in certain cases in Brazil, Canada, Israel and Nigeria, range into the billions of U.S. dollars. We anticipate that new cases will continue to be filed. The FCTC encourages litigation against tobacco product manufacturers. It is possible that
our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. See Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  of this Form 10-K.             We face intense competition, and our
failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations.          
  We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, taste, innovation, packaging, service, marketing,
advertising and price. We are subject to highly competitive   
         -10-   

Table of Contents  

conditions in all aspects of our business. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence,
competitors  introduction of lower-price products or innovative products, higher tobacco product taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between retail price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate
tobacco products. Competitors include three large international tobacco companies and several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, state-owned tobacco enterprises, principally in Algeria, Egypt, the PRC, Taiwan, Thailand and
Vietnam. Industry consolidation and privatizations of state-owned enterprises have led to an overall increase in competitive pressures. Some competitors have different profit and volume objectives and some international competitors are less
susceptible to changes in currency exchange rates.             Because we have
operations in numerous countries, our results may be influenced by economic, regulatory and political developments in many countries.          
  Some of the countries in which we operate face the threat of civil unrest and can be subject to regime changes. In others, nationalization,
terrorism, conflict and the threat of war may have a significant impact on the business environment. Economic, political, regulatory or other developments could disrupt our supply chain or our distribution capabilities. In addition, such
developments could lead to loss of property or equipment that are critical to our business in certain markets and difficulty in staffing and managing our operations, which could reduce our volumes, revenues and net earnings. In certain markets, we
are dependent on governmental approvals of various actions such as price changes.            In addition, despite our high ethical standards and rigorous control and compliance procedures aimed at preventing and detecting unlawful conduct, given the breadth and scope of our international operations, we may
not be able to detect all potential improper or unlawful conduct by our employees and international partners.             We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences or to respond to consumer behavior influenced by economic downturns.    
        Our tobacco business is subject to changes in consumer preferences,
which may be influenced by local economic conditions. To be successful, we must:         

promote brand equity successfully;            

anticipate and respond to new consumer trends;            

develop new products and markets and broaden brand portfolios;      

improve productivity; and            

be able to protect or enhance margins through price increases.      
        In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may tend to purchase
lower-price brands, and the volume of our premium-price and mid-price brands and our profitability could suffer accordingly.         
   We lose revenues as a result of counterfeiting, contraband and cross-border purchases.    
        Large quantities of counterfeit cigarettes are sold in the
international market. We believe that  Marlboro  is the most heavily counterfeited international cigarette brand, although we cannot quantify the revenues we lose as a result of this activity. In addition, our revenues are reduced by contraband
and legal cross-border purchases.   
         -11-   

Table of Contents  

    From time to time, we are subject to governmental investigations on a range of
matters.             Investigations include allegations of
contraband shipments of cigarettes, allegations of unlawful pricing activities within certain markets, allegations of underpayment of customs duties and/or excise taxes, and allegations of false and misleading usage of descriptors such as
 lights  and  ultra lights.  We cannot predict the outcome of those investigations or whether additional investigations may be commenced, and it is possible that our business could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome
of pending or future investigations. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Operating Results by Business Segment Business Environment Governmental Investigations  for
a description of governmental investigations to which we are subject.             We
may be unsuccessful in our attempts to produce products with the potential to reduce the risk of smoking-related diseases.          
  We continue to seek ways to develop commercially viable new product technologies that may reduce the risk of smoking. Our goal is to develop
products whose potential for risk reduction can be substantiated and meet adult smokers  taste expectations. We may not succeed in these efforts. If we do not succeed, but others do, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, we
cannot predict whether regulators will permit the marketing of tobacco products with claims of reduced risk to consumers, which could significantly undermine the commercial viability of these products.   
         Our reported results could be adversely affected by unfavorable currency exchange
rates, and currency devaluations could impair our competitiveness.             We conduct our business primarily in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, the local currency results are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a
reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. During periods of local economic crises, foreign
currencies may be devalued significantly against the U.S. dollar, reducing our margins. Actions to recover margins may result in lower volume and a weaker competitive position.   
         The repatriation of our foreign earnings, changes in the earnings mix, and changes
in U.S. tax laws may increase our effective tax rate.          
  Because we are a U.S. holding company, our most significant source of funds is distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under current U.S. tax
law, in general we do not pay U.S. taxes on our foreign earnings until they are repatriated to the U.S. as distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. These distributions may result in a residual U.S. tax cost. It may be advantageous to us in
certain circumstances to significantly increase the amount of such distributions, which could result in a material increase in our overall effective tax rate. Additionally, the Obama Administration has indicated that it favors changes in U.S. tax
law that would fundamentally change how our earnings are taxed in the U.S. If enacted and depending upon its precise terms, such legislation could increase our overall effective tax rate.             Our ability to grow may be limited by our inability to introduce new products, enter new markets or to improve our margins through
higher pricing and improvements in our brand and geographic mix.             Our profitability may suffer if we are unable to introduce new products or enter new markets successfully, to raise prices or maintain an acceptable proportion of our sales of higher margin products and sales in
higher margin geographies.   
         -12-   

Table of Contents  

    We may be unable to expand our brand portfolio through successful acquisitions and the development of strategic
business relationships.             One element of our growth
strategy is to strengthen our brand portfolio and market positions through selective acquisitions and the development of strategic business relationships. Acquisition and strategic business development opportunities are limited and present risks of
failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There is no assurance that we will be able to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, or that future
acquisitions or strategic business developments will be accretive to earnings.             Government mandated prices, production control programs, shifts in crops driven by economic conditions and the impacts of climate change may increase the cost or reduce the quality of the tobacco and other
agricultural products used to manufacture our products.          
  As with other agricultural commodities, the price of tobacco leaf and cloves can be influenced by imbalances in supply and demand, and crop quality
can be influenced by variations in weather patterns, including those caused by climate change. Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including government mandated prices and production control programs. Changes
in the patterns of demand for agricultural products could cause farmers to plant less tobacco. Any significant change in tobacco leaf and clove prices, quality and quantity could affect our profitability and our business.   
         Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best global
talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of cigarette smoking.             The tobacco industry competes for talent with consumer products and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance. As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain the best global talent.   
         The failure of our information systems to function as intended or their penetration
by outside parties with the intent to corrupt them could result in business disruption, loss of revenue, assets or personal or other sensitive data.          
  We use information systems to help manage business processes, collect and interpret business data and communicate internally and externally with
employees, suppliers, customers and others. Some of these information systems are managed by third-party service providers. We have backup systems and business continuity plans in place, and we take care to protect our systems and data from
unauthorized access. Nevertheless, failure of our systems to function as intended, or penetration of our systems by outside parties intent on extracting or corrupting information or otherwise disrupting business processes, could result in loss of
revenue, assets or personal or other sensitive data, cause damage to our reputation and that of our brands and result in significant remediation and other costs to us.   
         -13-   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.   
      Unresolved Staff Comments.                
  None.         

Item 2.   
      Properties.                
  As of December 31, 2011, we operated and owned 55 manufacturing facilities, operated one leased manufacturing facility in Mexico, and
maintained contract manufacturing relationships with 21 third-party manufacturers across 23 markets. In addition, we work with 38 third-party operators in Indonesia who manufacture our hand-rolled cigarettes.   
         PMI Owned Manufacturing Facilities    
   
          In 2011, 27 of our facilities each
manufactured over 10 billion cigarettes, of which 7 facilities each produced over 30 billion units. Our largest factories are in Bergen-op-Zoom (the Netherlands), St. Petersburg (Russia), Berlin (Germany), Marikina and Batangas
(Philippines), Krakow (Poland), Izmir (Turkey), Kharkiv (Ukraine), Neuchatel (Switzerland), Merlo (Argentina) and Karawang (Indonesia). Our smallest factories are mostly in Latin America and Asia, where due to tariff constraints we have
established small manufacturing units in individual markets, several of which are make-pack operations. We will continue to optimize our manufacturing base, taking into consideration the evolution of trade blocks.   
        The plants and properties owned or leased and operated by our
subsidiaries are maintained in good condition and are believed to be suitable and adequate for our present needs.         

Item 3.   
      Legal Proceedings.                
    Litigation General           
  Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened against us, and/or our subsidiaries, and/or our indemnitees in various
jurisdictions. Our indemnitees include distributors, licensees, and others that have been named as parties in certain cases and that we have agreed to defend, as well as pay costs and some or all of judgments, if any, that may be entered against
them. Pursuant to the terms of the Distribution Agreement between Altria and PMI, PMI will indemnify Altria and PM USA for tobacco product claims based in substantial part on products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for PMI by PM
USA, and PM USA will indemnify PMI for tobacco product claims based in substantial part on products manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured for PMI. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including,
among others, product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, employment and tax.            It is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases against us and our subsidiaries. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related litigation could encourage the commencement
of additional litigation.   
         -14-   

Table of Contents  

   Damages claimed in some of the tobacco-related litigation are significant and, in certain cases in
Brazil, Canada, Israel and Nigeria, range into the billions of dollars. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be
specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. Much of the tobacco-related litigation is in its early stages and litigation is subject to uncertainty. However, as discussed below, we have to date been largely successful in
defending tobacco-related litigation.            We and our
subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. At the present time, while it is
reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, after assessing the information available to it (i) management has not concluded that it is probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases;
(ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss for any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, no estimated loss has been accrued in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable
outcomes in these cases, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.            It is possible that our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of
certain pending litigation. Nevertheless, although litigation is subject to uncertainty, we and each of our subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that we have valid defenses
to the litigation pending against us, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts, if any. All such cases are, and will continue to be, vigorously defended. However, we and our subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in
particular cases if we believe it is in our best interests to do so.            The table below lists the number of tobacco-related cases pending against us and/or our subsidiaries or indemnitees as of February 15, 2012, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009:   
   
          Since 1995, when the first
tobacco-related litigation was filed against a PMI entity, 377 Smoking and Health, Lights, Health Care Cost Recovery, and Public Civil Actions in which we and/or one of our subsidiaries and/or indemnitees were a defendant have been terminated in our
favor. Ten cases have had decisions in favor of plaintiffs. Six of these cases have subsequently reached final resolution in our favor and four remain on appeal. To date, we have paid total judgments including costs of approximately six thousand
Euros. These payments were made in order to appeal three Italian small claims cases, two of which were subsequently reversed on appeal and one of which remains on appeal. To date, no tobacco-related case has been finally resolved in favor of a
plaintiff against us, our subsidiaries or indemnitees.   
         -15-   

Table of Contents  

   The table below lists the verdicts and post-trial developments in the three pending cases (excluding
an individual case on appeal from an Italian small claims court) in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs:       

Date     
      
     Location of Court/Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

May 2011  
      
  Brazil/Laszlo  
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  The Civil Court of S o Vicente found for plaintiff and ordered Philip Morris Brasil to pay damages of R$31,333 (approximately $16,700), plus future costs for cessation and medical
treatment of smoking-related diseases.  
      
  In June 2011, Philip Morris Brasil filed an appeal. In December 2011, the Appellate Court reversed the trial court decision. Plaintiff may appeal.   

September 2009  
      
  Brazil/Bernhardt  
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  The Civil Court of Rio de Janeiro found for plaintiff and ordered Philip Morris Brasil to pay R$13,000 (approximately $6,900) in  moral damages.   
      
    Philip Morris Brasil filed its appeal against the decision on the merits with the Court of Appeals in November 2009. In February 2010, without
addressing the merits, the Court of Appeals annulled the trial court s decision and remanded the case to the trial court to issue a new ruling, which was required to address certain compensatory damage claims made by the plaintiff that the
trial court did not address in its original ruling. In July 2010, the trial court reinstated its original decision, while specifically rejecting the compensatory damages claim. Philip Morris Brasil appealed this decision.  
  In March 2011, the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court s decision and denied Philip Morris Brasil s appeal. The Court of Appeals increased the
amount of damages awarded to the plaintiff to R$100,000 (approximately $53,000). Philip Morris Brasil filed an appeal in June 2011.     
         -16-   

Table of Contents  

Date     
      
     Location of Court/Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

February 2004  
      
  Brazil/The Smoker Health Defense Association  
      
  Class Action  
      
  The Civil Court of S o Paulo found defendants liable without hearing evidence. The court did not assess moral or actual damages, which were to be assessed in a second phase of the
case. The size of the class was not defined in the ruling.  
      
  In April 2004, the court clarified its ruling, awarding  moral damages  of R$1,000 (approximately $530) per smoker per full year of smoking plus interest at the rate of 1% per
month, as of the date of the ruling. The court did not award actual damages, which were to be assessed in the second phase of the case. The size of the class was not estimated. Defendants appealed to the S o Paulo Court of Appeals, which
annulled the ruling in November 2008, finding that the trial court had inappropriately ruled without hearing evidence and returned the case to the trial court for further proceedings. In May 2011, the trial court dismissed the claim. Plaintiff has
appealed. In addition, the defendants filed a constitutional appeal to the Federal Supreme Tribunal on the basis that the plaintiff did not have standing to bring the lawsuit. This appeal is still pending.   
          Pending claims related to tobacco
products generally fall within the following categories:         
   Smoking and Health Litigation:  These cases primarily allege personal injury and are brought by individual plaintiffs or on behalf of a class
of individual plaintiffs. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach
of express and implied warranties, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes. Plaintiffs in these cases seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and other damages, and injunctive and equitable relief.
Defenses raised in these cases include licit activity, failure to state a claim, lack of defect, lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk, contributory negligence, and statute of limitations.   
         -17-   

Table of Contents  

   As of February 15, 2012, there were a number of smoking and health cases pending against us, our
subsidiaries or indemnitees, as follows:         
       
          In
the first class action pending in Brazil,  The Smoker Health Defense Association (ADESF) v. Souza Cruz, S.A. and Philip Morris Marketing, S.A., Nineteenth Lower Civil Court of the Central Courts of the Judiciary District of S o Paulo,
Brazil , filed July 25, 1995, our subsidiary and another member of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, a consumer organization, is seeking damages for smokers and former smokers and injunctive relief. The verdict and post-trial
developments in this case are described in the above table.         
  In the second class action pending in Brazil , Public Prosecutor of S o Paulo v. Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda., Civil
Court of the City of S o Paulo, Brazil,  filed August 6, 2007, our subsidiary is a defendant. The plaintiff, the Public Prosecutor of the State of S o Paulo, is seeking (i) unspecified damages on behalf of all smokers
nationwide, former smokers, and their relatives; (ii) unspecified damages on behalf of people exposed to environmental tobacco smoke ( ETS ) nationwide, and their relatives; and (iii) reimbursement of the health care costs
allegedly incurred for the treatment of tobacco-related diseases by all Brazilian States and Municipalities, and the Federal District. In an interim ruling issued in December 2007, the trial court limited the scope of this claim to the State of
S o Paulo only. In December 2008, the Seventh Civil Court of S o Paulo issued a decision declaring that it lacked jurisdiction because the case involved issues similar to the  ADESF  case discussed above and should be transferred
to the Nineteenth Lower Civil Court in S o Paulo where the  ADESF  case is pending. The court further stated that these cases should be consolidated for the purposes of judgment. Our subsidiary appealed this decision to the State of
S o Paulo Court of Appeals, which subsequently declared the case stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. In April 2010, the S o Paulo Court of Appeals reversed the Seventh Civil Court s decision that consolidated the cases,
finding that they are based on different legal claims and are progressing at different stages of proceedings. This case was returned to the Seventh Civil Court of S o Paulo, and our subsidiary filed its closing arguments in December 2010.
           In the first class action pending in Canada,  Cecilia
Letourneau v. Imperial Tobacco Ltd., Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc. and JTI Macdonald Corp., Quebec Superior Court, Canada,  filed in September 1998, our subsidiary and other Canadian manufacturers are defendants. The plaintiff, an
individual smoker, is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages for each member of the class who is deemed addicted to smoking. The class was certified in 2005. Pre-trial proceedings are ongoing. On February 14, 2012, the court
ruled that the federal government will remain as a third-party in the case. Trial is scheduled to begin on March 12, 2012.         
  In the second class action pending in Canada,  Conseil Qu b cois Sur Le Tabac Et La Sant  and Jean-Yves Blais v. Imperial
Tobacco Ltd., Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc. and JTI Macdonald Corp., Quebec Superior Court, Canada , filed in November 1998, our subsidiary and other Canadian manufacturers are defendants. The plaintiffs, an anti-smoking
organization and an individual smoker, are seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages for each member of the class who allegedly suffers from certain smoking-related diseases. The class was certified in 2005. Pre-trial proceedings
are ongoing. On February 14, 2012, the court ruled that the federal government will remain as a third-party in the case. Trial is scheduled to begin on March 12, 2012.   
         -18-   

Table of Contents  

   In the third class action pending in Canada,  Kunta v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council,
et al., The Queen s Bench, Winnipeg, Canada , filed June 12, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, an individual smoker, alleges
her own addiction to tobacco products and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), severe asthma, and mild reversible lung disease resulting from the use of tobacco products. She is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive
damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised of all smokers, their estates, dependents and family members, as well as restitution of profits, and reimbursement of government health care costs allegedly caused by tobacco products. In September
2009, plaintiff s counsel informed defendants that he did not anticipate taking any action in this case while he pursues the class action filed in Saskatchewan (see description of  Adams , below).   
        In the fourth class action pending in Canada,  Adams v. Canadian
Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al. ,  The Queen s Bench, Saskatchewan, Canada , filed July 10, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are
defendants. The plaintiff, an individual smoker, alleges her own addiction to tobacco products and COPD resulting from the use of tobacco products. She is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised
of all smokers who have smoked a minimum of 25,000 cigarettes and have allegedly suffered, or suffer, from COPD, emphysema, heart disease, or cancer, as well as restitution of profits. Preliminary motions are pending.   
        In the fifth class action pending in Canada,  Semple v. Canadian
Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al. ,  The Supreme Court (trial court), Nova Scotia, Canada , filed June 18, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are
defendants. The plaintiff, an individual smoker, alleges his own addiction to tobacco products and COPD resulting from the use of tobacco products. He is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised
of all smokers, their estates, dependents and family members, as well as restitution of profits, and reimbursement of government health care costs allegedly caused by tobacco products. No activity in this case is anticipated while plaintiff s
counsel pursues the class action filed in Saskatchewan (see description of  Adams , above).            In the sixth class action pending in Canada,  Dorion v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., The Queen s Bench, Alberta, Canada,  filed June 15, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, and our
indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, an individual smoker, alleges her own addiction to tobacco products and chronic bronchitis and severe sinus infections resulting from the
use of tobacco products. She is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised of all smokers, their estates, dependents and family members, restitution of profits, and reimbursement of government
health care costs allegedly caused by tobacco products. To date, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees have not been properly served with the complaint. No activity in this case is anticipated while plaintiff s counsel pursues the class
action filed in Saskatchewan (see description of  Adams , above).            In the seventh class action pending in Canada,  McDermid v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al. ,  Supreme Court, British Columbia, Canada , filed June 25, 2010, we, our subsidiaries, and our
indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, an individual smoker, alleges his own addiction to tobacco products and heart disease resulting from the use of tobacco products. He is
seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised of all smokers who were alive on June 12, 2007, and who suffered from heart disease allegedly caused by smoking, their estates, dependents and family
members, plus disgorgement of revenues earned by the defendants from January 1, 1954 to the   
         -19-   

Table of Contents  

date the claim was filed. Defendants have filed jurisdictional challenges on the grounds that this action should not proceed during the pendency of the Saskatchewan class action (see description
of  Adams , above).            In the eighth class action pending
in Canada,  Bourassa v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al. ,  Supreme Court, British Columbia, Canada , filed June 25, 2010, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the
industry are defendants. The plaintiff, the heir to a deceased smoker, alleges that the decedent was addicted to tobacco products and suffered from emphysema resulting from the use of tobacco products. She is seeking compensatory and unspecified
punitive damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised of all smokers who were alive on June 12, 2007, and who suffered from chronic respiratory diseases allegedly caused by smoking, their estates, dependents and family members, plus
disgorgement of revenues earned by the defendants from January 1, 1954 to the date the claim was filed. Defendants have filed jurisdictional challenges on the grounds that this action should not proceed during the pendency of the Saskatchewan
class action (see description of  Adams , above).         
   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation:  These cases, brought by governmental and non-governmental plaintiffs, seek reimbursement of health
care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery including unjust enrichment, negligence, negligent design, strict liability, breach of
express and implied warranties, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance, defective product, failure to warn, sale of cigarettes to minors, and claims under statutes
governing competition and deceptive trade practices. Plaintiffs in these cases seek various forms of relief including compensatory and other damages, and injunctive and equitable relief. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of proximate
cause, remoteness of injury, failure to state a claim, adequate remedy at law,  unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), and statute
of limitations.            As of February 15, 2012, there were 10
health care cost recovery cases pending against us, our subsidiaries or indemnitees in Canada (4), Nigeria (5) and Spain (1), compared with 10 such cases on December 31, 2010 and 11 such cases on December 31, 2009.   
        In the first health care cost recovery case pending in Canada,  Her
Majesty the Queen in Right of British Columbia v. Imperial Tobacco Limited, et al., Supreme Court, British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, Canada,  filed January 24, 2001, we, our subsidiaries, our indemnitee (PM USA), and other members of the
industry are defendants. The plaintiff, the government of the province of British Columbia, brought a claim based upon legislation enacted by the province authorizing the government to file a direct action against cigarette manufacturers to recover
the health care costs it has incurred, and will incur, resulting from a  tobacco related wrong.  The Supreme Court of Canada has held that the statute is constitutional. We and certain other non-Canadian defendants challenged the
jurisdiction of the court. The court rejected the jurisdictional challenge, and pre-trial discovery is ongoing. The trial court also has granted plaintiff s request that the target trial date of September 2011 be postponed indefinitely.
Meanwhile, in December 2009, the British Columbia Court of Appeal ruled that the defendants could pursue a third-party claim against the government of Canada for negligently misrepresenting to defendants the efficacy of the low tar tobacco strain
that the federal government developed and licensed to some of the defendants. In May 2010, the Supreme Court of Canada agreed to hear both the appeal of the Attorney General of Canada and the defendants  cross-appeal from the British Columbia
Court of Appeal decision. In July 2011, the Supreme Court of Canada dismissed the third-party claims against the federal government.         
  In the second health care cost recovery case filed in Canada,  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of New Brunswick v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Court of
Queen s Bench of New Brunswick, Trial Court, New    
         -20-   

Table of Contents  

Brunswick, Fredericton, Canada,  filed March 13, 2008, we, our subsidiaries, our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The
claim was filed by the government of the province of New Brunswick based on legislation enacted in the province. This legislation is similar to the law introduced in British Columbia that authorizes the government to file a direct action against
cigarette manufacturers to recover the health care costs it has incurred, and will incur, as a result of a  tobacco related wrong.  Pre-trial discovery is ongoing.   
        In the third health care cost recovery case filed in Canada,  Her
Majesty the Queen in Right of Ontario v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Toronto, Canada , filed September 29, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the
industry are defendants. The claim was filed by the government of the province of Ontario based on legislation enacted in the province. This legislation is similar to the laws introduced in British Columbia and New Brunswick that authorize the
government to file a direct action against cigarette manufacturers to recover the health care costs it has incurred, and will incur, as a result of a  tobacco related wrong.  Preliminary motions are pending.   
        In the fourth health care cost recovery case filed in Canada,
 Attorney General of Newfoundland and Labrador v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Supreme Court of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. Johns, Canada , filed February 8, 2011, we, our subsidiaries, our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and
other members of the industry are defendants. The claim was filed by the government of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador based on legislation enacted in the province that is similar to the laws introduced in British Columbia, New Brunswick
and Ontario. The legislation authorizes the government to file a direct action against cigarette manufacturers to recover the health care costs it has incurred, and will incur, as a result of a  tobacco related wrong.  Preliminary motions
are pending.            In the first case in Nigeria,  The Attorney
General of Lagos State v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Lagos State, Lagos, Nigeria,  filed April 30, 2007, our subsidiary and other members of the industry are defendants. Plaintiff seeks reimbursement
for the cost of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the next 20 years, various forms of injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. In February
2008, our subsidiary was served with a Notice of Discontinuance. The claim was formally dismissed in March 2008. However, the plaintiff has since refiled its claim. Our subsidiary is in the process of making challenges to service and the
court s jurisdiction. Currently, the case is stayed in the trial court pending the appeals of certain co-defendants relating to service objections. We currently have no employees, operations or assets in Nigeria.   
        In the second case in Nigeria,  The Attorney General of Kano State v.
British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Kano State, Kano, Nigeria,  filed May 9, 2007, our subsidiary and other members of the industry are defendants. Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged
smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the next 20 years, various forms of injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. Our subsidiary is in the process of making
challenges to service and the court s jurisdiction.           In
the third case in Nigeria,  The Attorney General of Gombe State v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Gombe State, Gombe, Nigeria,  filed May 18, 2007, our subsidiary and other members of the industry are
defendants .  Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the next 20 years, various forms of
injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. In July 2008, the court dismissed the case against all defendants based on the plaintiff s failure to comply with various procedural requirements when filing and serving the complaint. The plaintiff did
not appeal the dismissal. However, in October 2008, the plaintiff refiled its claim. In   
         -21-   

Table of Contents  

June 2010, the court ordered the plaintiff to amend the claim to properly name Philip Morris International Inc. as a defendant. Philip Morris International Inc. objected to plaintiff s
attempted service of amended process. In February 2011, the court granted, in part, our service objections, ruling that the plaintiff had not complied with the procedural steps necessary to serve us. As a result of this ruling, Philip Morris
International Inc. is not currently a defendant in the case. Plaintiff may appeal the ruling or follow the procedural steps required to serve Philip Morris International Inc.   
        In the fourth case in Nigeria,  The Attorney General of Oyo State, et
al., v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Oyo State, Ibadan, Nigeria,  filed May 25, 2007, our subsidiary and other members of the industry are defendants .  Plaintiffs seek reimbursement for the cost of
treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the next 20 years, various forms of injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. Our subsidiary challenged
service as improper. In June 2010, the court ruled that plaintiffs did not have leave to serve the writ of summons on the defendants and that they must re-serve the writ. Our subsidiary has not yet been re-served.   
        In the fifth case in Nigeria,  The Attorney General of Ogun State v.
British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Ogun State, Abeokuta, Nigeria , filed February 26, 2008, our subsidiary and other members of the industry are defendants. Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of
treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the next 20 years, various forms of injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. In May 2010, the trial court
rejected our subsidiary s service objections. Our subsidiary has appealed.            In a series of proceedings in Spain,  Junta de Andalucia, et al. v. Philip Morris Spain, et al., Court of First Instance, Madrid, Spain,  the first of which was filed February 21, 2002, our subsidiary and
other members of the industry were defendants. The plaintiffs sought reimbursement for the cost of treating certain of their citizens for various smoking-related illnesses. In May 2004, the first instance court dismissed the initial case, finding
that the State was a necessary party to the claim, and thus, the claim must be filed in the Administrative Court. The plaintiffs appealed. In February 2006, the appellate court affirmed the lower court s dismissal. The plaintiffs then filed
notice that they intended to pursue their claim in the Administrative Court against the State. Because they were defendants in the original proceeding, our subsidiary and other members of the industry filed notices with the Administrative Court that
they are interested parties in the case. In September 2007, the plaintiffs filed their complaint in the Administrative Court. In November 2007, the Administrative Court dismissed the claim based on a procedural issue. The plaintiffs asked the
Administrative Court to reconsider its decision dismissing the case, and that request was rejected in a ruling rendered in February 2008. Plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court rejected plaintiffs  appeal in November 2009,
resulting in the final dismissal of the claim. However, plaintiffs have filed a second claim in the Administrative Court against the Ministry of Economy. This second claim seeks the same relief as the original claim, but relies on a different
procedural posture. The Administrative Court has recognized our subsidiary as a party in this proceeding. Our subsidiary and other defendants filed preliminary objections that resulted in a stay of the term to file the answer. In May 2011, the court
rejected the defendants  preliminary objections, but it has not yet set a deadline for defendants to file their answers.         
   Lights Cases:  These cases, brought by individual plaintiffs, or on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, allege that the use of
the term  lights  constitutes fraudulent and misleading conduct. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery including misrepresentation, deception, and breach of consumer protection
laws. Plaintiffs seek various forms of relief including restitution, injunctive relief, and compensatory and other damages. Defenses raised include lack of causation, lack of reliance, assumption of the risk, and statute of limitations.   
         -22-   

Table of Contents  

   As of February 15, 2012, there were a number of lights cases pending against our subsidiaries or
indemnitees, as follows:         

2 cases brought on behalf of various classes of individual plaintiffs (some overlapping) in Israel, compared with 2 such cases on December 31, 2010, and 3
such cases on December 31, 2009; and            

9 cases brought by individuals in the equivalent of small claims courts in Italy, where the maximum damages are approximately one thousand Euros per case,
compared with 10 such cases on December 31, 2010, and 12 such cases on December 31, 2009.            
  In the first class action pending in Israel,  El-Roy, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., District Court of Tel-Aviv/Jaffa, Israel, 
filed January 18, 2004, our subsidiary and our indemnitees (PM USA and our former importer) are defendants. The plaintiffs filed a purported class action claiming that the class members were misled by the descriptor  lights  into
believing that lights cigarettes are safer than full flavor cigarettes. The claim seeks recovery of the purchase price of lights cigarettes and compensation for distress for each class member. Hearings took place in November and December 2008
regarding whether the case meets the legal requirements necessary to allow it to proceed as a class action. The parties  briefing on class certification was completed in March 2011. A hearing for final oral argument on class certification took
place in November 2011. We are awaiting the court s decision.            The claims in a second class action pending in Israel,  Navon, et al. v. Philip Morris Products USA, et al., District Court of Tel-Aviv/Jaffa, Israel , filed December 5, 2004, against our indemnitee (our
distributor) and other members of the industry are similar to those in  El-Roy,  and the case is currently stayed pending a ruling on class certification in  El-Roy .   
         Public Civil Actions:  Claims have been filed either by an
individual, or a public or private entity, seeking to protect collective or individual rights, such as the right to health, the right to information or the right to safety. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on
various theories of recovery including product defect, concealment, and misrepresentation. Plaintiffs in these cases seek various forms of relief including injunctive relief such as banning cigarettes, descriptors, smoking in certain places and
advertising, as well as implementing communication campaigns and reimbursement of medical expenses incurred by public or private institutions.         
  As of February 15, 2012, there were 3 public civil actions pending against our subsidiaries in Argentina (1), Brazil (1), and Venezuela (1),
compared with 7 such cases on December 31, 2010, and 11 such cases on December 31, 2009.            In the public civil action in Argentina,  Asociaci n Argentina de Derecho de Danos v. Massalin Particulares S.A., et al., Civil Court of Buenos Aires, Argentina,  filed February 26, 2007, our
subsidiary and another member of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, a consumer association, seeks the establishment of a relief fund for reimbursement of medical costs associated with diseases allegedly caused by smoking. Our subsidiary
filed its answer in September 2007. In March 2010, the case file was transferred to the Federal Court on Administrative Matters after the Civil Court granted the plaintiff s request to add the national government as a co-plaintiff in the case.
           In the public civil action in Brazil,  The Brazilian
Association for the Defense of Consumer Health ( SAUDECON ) v. Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda. and Souza Cruz S.A., Civil Court of City of Porto Alegre, Brazil,  filed November 3, 2008, our subsidiary is a
defendant. The plaintiff, a consumer organization, is asking the court to establish a fund that will be used to provide treatment to smokers who claim to be addicted and who do not otherwise have access to smoking cessation treatment. Plaintiff
requests that each defendant s liability be determined according to its market share. In May 2009, the trial court dismissed the case on the merits. Plaintiff has appealed.   
         -23-   

Table of Contents  

   In the public civil action in Venezuela,  Federation of Consumers and Users Associations
( FEVACU ), et al. v. National Assembly of Venezuela and the Venezuelan Ministry of Health, Constitutional Chamber of the Venezuelan Supreme Court , filed April 29, 2008, we were not named as a defendant, but the plaintiffs
published a notice pursuant to court order, notifying all interested parties to appear in the case. In January 2009, our subsidiary appeared in the case in response to this notice. The plaintiffs purport to represent the right to
health of the citizens of Venezuela and claim that the government failed to protect adequately its citizens  right to health. The claim asks the court to order the government to enact stricter regulations on the manufacture and sale of tobacco
products. In addition, the plaintiffs ask the court to order companies involved in the tobacco industry to allocate a percentage of their  sales or benefits  to establish a fund to pay for the health care costs of treating
smoking-related diseases. In October 2008, the court ruled that plaintiffs have standing to file the claim and that the claim meets the threshold admissibility requirements.   
          Other Litigation     
        Other litigation includes an antitrust suit, a breach of contract
action, various tax and individual employment cases and a tort claim.             Antitrust:  In the antitrust class action in Kansas,  Smith v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., District Court of Seward County, Kansas , filed February 7, 2000, we and other members of the
industry are defendants. The plaintiff asserts that the defendant cigarette companies engaged in an international conspiracy to fix wholesale prices of cigarettes and sought certification of a class comprised of all persons in Kansas who were
indirect purchasers of cigarettes from the defendants. The plaintiff claims unspecified economic damages resulting from the alleged price-fixing, trebling of those damages under the Kansas price-fixing statute and counsel fees. The trial court
granted plaintiff s motion for class certification in 2001. Defendants  motions for summary judgment were argued in January 2012. In the event the summary judgment motions are not granted, the court has set a trial date in July 2012.
            Breach of Contract:  In the breach of contract action
in Ontario, Canada,  The Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco Growers  Marketing Board, et al. v. Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc., Superior Court of Justice, London, Ontario, Canada,  filed November 5, 2009, our subsidiary is a
defendant. Plaintiffs in this putative class action allege that our subsidiary breached contracts with the proposed class members (Ontario tobacco growers and their related associations) concerning the sale and purchase of flue-cured tobacco from
January 1, 1986 to December 31, 1996. Plaintiffs allege that our subsidiary was required by the contracts to disclose to plaintiffs the quantity of tobacco included in cigarettes to be sold for duty free and export purposes (which it
purchased at a lower price per pound than tobacco that was included in cigarettes to be sold in Canada), but failed to disclose that some of the cigarettes it designated as being for export and duty free purposes were ultimately sold in Canada. Our
subsidiary has been served, but there is currently no deadline to respond to the statement of claim. In September 2011, plaintiffs served a notice of motion seeking class certification.             Tax:  In Brazil, there are 114 tax cases involving Philip Morris Brasil S.A. and Philip Morris Brasil Ltda.
relating to the payment of state tax on the sale and transfer of goods and services, federal social contributions, excise, social security and income tax, and other matters. Fifty-eight of these cases are under administrative review
by the relevant fiscal authorities and 56 are under judicial review by the courts.             Employment:  Our subsidiaries, Philip Morris Brasil S.A. and Philip Morris Brasil Ltda., are defendants in various individual employment cases resulting, among other things, from the termination of employment
in connection with the shut-down of one of our factories in Brazil.   
         -24-   

Table of Contents  

    Tort:  In the action in Delaware,  Antonio Emilio Hupan et al. v. Alliance One International,
Inc. et al. Superior Court for the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County,  filed February 13, 2012, we, our subsidiaries, other members of the industry, certain companies allegedly involved in the purchase of tobacco leaf in
Argentina, and certain companies allegedly involved in the manufacture of pesticides are defendants. Plaintiffs in this action are eight children born between the years of 1996 and 2008 and their families, all residing in Argentina. The plaintiffs
claim that the children developed birth defects as a result of the exposure of their parents to pesticides while working on farms in Argentina. The plaintiffs allege that we, our subsidiaries, other members of the industry, and certain companies
allegedly involved in the purchase of tobacco leaf in Argentina required the use of pesticides in tobacco growing while failing to warn tobacco growers of the risks. The plaintiffs claim unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. Neither we nor
our subsidiaries have been served with the complaint.         
   Third-Party Guarantees          
  At December 31, 2011, PMI s third-party guarantees were $7 million, of which $2 million expire through December 31, 2012, and the
remainder through 2015. PMI is required to perform under these guarantees in the event that a third party fails to make contractual payments. PMI does not have a liability on its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011, as the fair
value of these guarantees is insignificant due to the fact that the probability of future payments under these guarantees is remote.         

Item 4.   
      Mine Safety Disclosures   .            
  Not applicable.   
         -25-   

Table of Contents  

      PART II          

Item 5.   
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.          
        Our share repurchase activity for each of the three months in the
quarter ended December 31, 2011 was as follows:       

(1)  
  On February 11, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of $12 billion over three years. The new program commenced in May 2010 after the
completion of our previous two-year $13 billion program. These share repurchases have been made pursuant to this program.           

(2)  
  Aggregate number of shares repurchased under the $12 billion share repurchase program as of the end of the period presented.     

(3)  
  Shares repurchased represent shares tendered to us by employees who vested in restricted and deferred stock awards, or exercised stock options, and used shares to pay all, or a
portion of, the related taxes and/or option exercise price.              The principal stock exchange, on which our common stock (no par value) is listed, is the New York Stock Exchange. At January 31, 2012, there were approximately 83,200 holders of record of our common stock.
           Our common stock is also listed on NYSE Euronext in Paris
and the Swiss stock exchange.            The other information called for by this Item
is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraph captioned  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  on page 81 of the 2011 Annual Report and made a part hereof.   
         -26-   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
      Selected Financial Data.                
  The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the information with respect to 2007-2011 appearing under the caption
 Selected Financial Data-Five-Year Review  on page 45 of the 2011 Annual Report and made a part hereof.         

Item 7.   
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.          
        The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by
reference to the paragraphs captioned  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  ( MD A ) on pages 17 to 44 of the 2011 Annual Report and made a part hereof.   

Item 7A.   
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.          
        The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by
reference to the paragraphs in the MD A captioned  Market Risk  and  Value at Risk  on page 41 of the 2011 Annual Report and made a part hereof.   

Item 8.   
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.                
  The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2011 Annual Report as set forth under the caption  Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)  on page 81 of the 2011 Annual Report and in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules (see Item 15) and made a part hereof.   

Item 9.   
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.          
        None.         

Item 9A.   
      Controls and Procedures.                

(a)  
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures           
  PMI carried out an evaluation, with the participation of PMI s management, including PMI s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of PMI s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation,
PMI s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that PMI s disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There have been no changes in PMI s internal control over financial reporting during the most recent
fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, PMI s internal control over financial reporting.         
  See Exhibit 13 for the Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
pages 82 to 83 of the 2011 Annual Report incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.         

Item 9B.   
      Other Information.                
  None.   
         -27-   

Table of Contents  

      PART III             Except for the information relating to the executive officers set forth in Item 10 and the information relating to
equity compensation plans set forth in Item 12, the information called for by Items 10-14 is hereby incorporated by reference to PMI s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held
on May 9, 2012 that will be filed with the SEC on or about March 30, 2012 (the  proxy statement ), and, except as indicated therein, made a part hereof.   

Item 10.   
      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   .      
         Executive Officers as of February 24, 2012:    

Name     
     
     Office     
     
   Age     

Louis C. Camilleri   
     
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

57  

David M. Bernick   
     
  Senior Vice President and General Counsel  

57  
  *    
 
    Bertrand Bonvin   
     
  Senior Vice President, Research   Development  

43  

Patrick Brunel   
     
  Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer  

46  

Andr  Calantzopoulos   
     
  Chief Operating Officer  

54  

Kevin Click   
     
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources  

51  

Frederic de Wilde   
     
  Senior Vice President, Marketing and Sales  

44  

Even Hurwitz   
     
  Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs  

50  

Martin King   
     
  Senior Vice President, Operations  

47  

Marco Kuepfer   
     
  Vice President, Finance and Treasurer  

54  

James R. Mortensen   
     
  President, Latin America   Canada Region  

54  

Jacek Olczak   
     
  President, European Union Region  

47  

Matteo Pellegrini   
     
  President, Asia Region  

49  

Joachim Psotta   
     
  Vice President and Controller  

54  

Hermann Waldemer   
     
  Chief Financial Officer  

54  

Jerry E. Whitson   
     
  Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary  

56  

Miroslaw Zielinski   
     
  President, Eastern Europe, Middle East   Africa Region   PMI Duty Free  

50  

*  
  As previously reported, on February 9, 2012, Mr. Bernick resigned effective June 30, 2012. He will be succeeded by Mr. Marc Firestone, the current Executive
Vice President, Corporate   Legal Affairs and General Counsel of Kraft Foods Inc. Between 1988 and 2003, Mr. Firestone, age 52, served with the Company in various capacities, lastly as Senior Vice President and General Counsel.
             All of the above-mentioned officers, except
for Messrs. Camilleri, Bernick and Whitson, have been employed by us in various capacities during the past five years.         
  Prior to the Distribution Date, Mr. Camilleri served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria, positions he held from August 2002
and April 2002, respectively. Mr. Camilleri also served as a director of Kraft from March 2001 to December 2007 and as Kraft s Chairman from September 2002 to March 30, 2007.            Before joining Philip Morris International Inc. in September 2010, Mr. Whitson was a Senior Partner at the law firm
of Hunton   Williams LLP, where he served for 30 years, lastly as the head of the firm s Business Practice Group and as a member of its Executive Committee.   
         -28-   

Table of Contents  

    Codes of Conduct and Corporate Governance    
        We have adopted the Philip Morris International Code of Conduct, which
complies with requirements set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K. This Code of Conduct applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller,
and persons performing similar functions. We have also adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to the members of our Board of Directors. These documents are available free of charge on our Web site at www.pmi.com.   
        In addition, we have adopted corporate governance guidelines and
charters for our Audit, Finance, Compensation and Leadership Development, Product Innovation and Regulatory Affairs and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees of the Board of Directors. All of these documents are available free of charge on
our Web site at www.pmi.com. Any waiver granted by Philip Morris International Inc. to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer or controller or any person performing similar functions under the Code of Conduct, or certain
amendments to the Code of Conduct, will be disclosed on our Web site at www.pmi.com.            The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Report or incorporated into any other filings made with the SEC.         

Item 11.   
      Executive Compensation.                
  Refer to  Executive Compensation  and  Compensation of Directors  sections of the proxy statement.   

Item 12.   
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.          
        The number of shares to be issued upon exercise or vesting and the
number of shares remaining available for future issuance under PMI s equity compensation plans at December 31, 2011, were as follows:       

Number of Shares to be Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options and
Vesting of Deferred Stock     

Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options     

Number of Shares Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (excluding Securities reflected in
column (a))     

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders(1)   

9,445,002  

$  
  27.07  

29,222,431  

(1)  
  Approved by Altria as our sole stockholder prior to the Spin-off.           
  Refer to  Ownership of Equity Securities  section of the proxy statement.         

Item 13.   
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.                   Refer to  Related Person Transactions and Code of Conduct  and  Independence of Nominees  sections of
the proxy statement.         

Item 14.   
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services   .            
  Refer to  Audit Committee Matters  section of the proxy statement.   
         -29-   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV          

Item 15.   
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   .            
  (a) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules       
          Schedules have been omitted either
because such schedules are not required or are not applicable.            (b) The
following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:       

2.1  

Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc. dated January 30, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registration Statement on
Form 10 filed February 7, 2008).   

3.1  

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Philip Morris International Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed February 7,
2008).   

3.2  

Amended and Restated By-laws of Philip Morris International Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 6, 2011).   

4.1  

Specimen Stock Certificate of Philip Morris International Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed February 7, 2008).   

4.2  

Indenture dated as of April 25, 2008, between Philip Morris International Inc. and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the
Registration Statement on Form S-3, dated April 25, 2008).   

4.3  

Issue and Paying Agency Agreement, dated March 13, 2009, by and among Philip Morris International Inc., HSBC Private Bank (C.I.) Limited, Jersey Branch, as registrar, HSBC Bank PLC, as
principal paying agent and HSBC Corporate Trustee Company (UK) Limited, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2009).   

4.4  

Trust Deed relating to Euro Medium Term Note Program, dated March 13, 2009, between Philip Morris International Inc., as issuer, and HSBC Corporate Trustee Company (UK) Limited, as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2009).    
         -30-   

Table of Contents  

4.5  

The Registrant agrees to furnish copies of any instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries that does not exceed
10 percent of the total assets of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries to the Commission upon request.   

10.1  

Transition Services Agreement between Altria Corporate Services, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., dated as of March 28, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 31, 2008).   

10.2  

Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., dated as of March 28, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K
filed March 31, 2008).   

10.3  

Employee Matters Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., dated as of March 28, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K filed March 31, 2008).   

10.4  

Intellectual Property Agreement between Philip Morris International Inc. and Philip Morris USA Inc., dated as of January 1, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
Registration Statement on Form 10 filed March 5, 2008).   

10.5  

Credit Agreement relating to a US$3,000,000,000 5-Year Revolving Credit Facility (including a US$900,000,000 swingline option) and a US$1,000,000,000 3-Year Revolving Credit Facility
(including a US$300,000,000 swingline option) and a EUR 1,500,000,000 364-Day Term Loan Facility dated as of December 4, 2007 among Philip Morris International Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited as
Facility Agent and Swingline Agent and J.P. Morgan PLC, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Brothers Inc. as Mandated Lead
Arrangers and Bookrunners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed February 7, 2008).   

10.6  

Credit Agreement relating to a US$3,500,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility (including a US$800,000,000 swingline option) dated as of October 25, 2011, among Philip Morris International Inc.
and the Initial Lenders named therein and Citibank International plc as Facility Agent and Citibank, N.A. as Swingline Agent and Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch, Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs International, HSBC Bank PLC, J.P. Morgan Limited, RBS Securities Inc. and Soci t  G n rale as Mandated Lead Arrangers and Bookrunners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 26, 2011).   

10.7  

Credit Agreement relating to a US$2,500,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility (including a US$700,000,000 swingline option), dated as of March 29, 2010, among Philip Morris International Inc. and
the Initial Lenders named therein and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited as Facility Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Swingline Agent and J.P. Morgan plc, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Credit Suisse AG, Cayman
Islands Branch, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and RBS Securities Inc., as Mandated Lead Arrangers and Bookrunners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 29,
2010).    
         -31-   

Table of Contents  

10.8  

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement relating to a US$2,500,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility (including a US$700,000,000 swingline option), dated as of May 11, 2011, among Philip Morris
International Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited as Facility Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Swingline Agent and J.P. Morgan Limited, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Credit
Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and RBS Securities Inc. as Mandated Lead Arrangers and Bookrunners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 17,
2011).   

10.9  

Anti-Contraband and Anti-Counterfeit Agreement and General Release dated July 9, 2004 and Appendices (Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential
treatment filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed February 7, 2008).   

10.10  

Philip Morris International Inc. Automobile Policy (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed February 7, 2008).*   

10.11  

Amended and Restated Philip Morris International Benefit Equalization Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2008).*   

10.12  

Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed February 7,
2008).*   

10.13  

Form of Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan Deferred Stock Agreement (Pre-2008 Grants) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Registration Statement
on Form 10 filed February 7, 2008).*   

10.14  

Form of Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan Deferred Stock Agreement (2008 Grants) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Registration Statement on
Form 10 filed February 7, 2008).*   

10.15  

Form of Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Registration
Statement on Form 10 filed February 7, 2008).*   

10.16  

Form of Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Agreement (2009 Grants) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K
filed February 10, 2009).*   

10.17  

Form of Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan Deferred Stock Agreement (2009 Grants) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K
filed February 10, 2009).*   

10.18  

Pension Fund of Philip Morris in Switzerland (IC) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).*   

10.19  

Summary of Supplemental Pension Plan of Philip Morris in Switzerland (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2009).*   

10.20  

Form of Restated Employee Grantor Trust Enrollment Agreement (Executive Trust Arrangement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed February
7, 2008).*    
         -32-   

Table of Contents  

-33-   

Table of Contents  

-34-   

Table of Contents  

101.CAL  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.   

101.DEF  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.   

101.LAB  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.   

101.PRE  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.    

*  
  Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement in which directors or executive officers are eligible to participate.     
         -35-   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.         

PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC.    

By:  
     
    /s/    L OUIS  C.
C AMILLERI              

(Louis C. Camilleri     Chairman and     Chief Executive Officer)    
 
         Date: February 24, 2012   
         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:        

Signature     
      
     Title     
     
     Date      

/s/    L OUIS  C.
C AMILLERI               (Louis C.
Camilleri)   
      
    Director, Chairman and  
  Chief Executive Officer   
     
  February 24, 2012   

/s/    H ERMANN 
W ALDEMER               (Hermann
Waldemer)   
      
    Chief Financial Officer   
     
  February 24, 2012   

/s/    J OACHIM 
P SOTTA               (Joachim
Psotta)   
      
    Vice President and Controller   
     
  February 24, 2012   

*HAROLD BROWN,     MATHIS
CABIALLAVETTA,     J. DUDLEY FISHBURN,     JENNIFER LI,     GRAHAM MACKAY,  
  SERGIO MARCHIONNE,     KALPANA
MORPARIA,     LUCIO A. NOTO,     ROBERT B. POLET,     CARLOS SLIM HEL ,  
  STEPHEN M. WOLF   
      
  Directors  

*By:   
      
    /s/    L OUIS  C.
C AMILLERI             

February 24, 2012   

(Louis C. Camilleri     Attorney-in-fact)   

-36-   

<EX-12>
 2
 d258717dex12.htm
 STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Statement regarding computation of ratios of earnings to fixed charges 

Exhibit 12       PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      Computation of Ratios of
Earnings to Fixed Charges      (in millions of dollars)   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 d258717dex13.htm
 PAGES 17 TO 83 OF THE 2011 ANNUAL REPORT

Pages 17 to 83 of the 2011 Annual Report 

Exhibit 13        Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
   Description of Our Company       We are a
holding company whose subsidiaries and affiliates, and their licensees, are engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in markets outside the United States of America. We manage our business in four segments:

European Union;          

Eastern Europe, Middle East   Africa ( EEMA       

Asia; and          

Latin America   Canada.         Our products are sold in approximately 180 countries and, in many of these countries, they hold the number one or number two market share position. We have a wide range of premium, mid-price and low-price
brands. Our portfolio comprises both international and local brands.      We use the term net revenues to refer to our operating
revenues from the sale of our products, net of sales and promotion incentives. Our net revenues and operating income are affected by various factors, including the volume of products we sell, the price of our products, changes in currency exchange
rates and the mix of products we sell. Mix is a term used to refer to the proportionate value of premium-price brands to mid-price or low-price brands in any given market (product mix). Mix can also refer to the proportion of shipment volume in more
profitable markets versus shipment volume in less profitable markets (geographic mix). We often collect excise taxes from our customers and then remit them to local governments, and, in those circumstances, we include the excise taxes in our net
revenues and in excise taxes on products. Our cost of sales consists principally of tobacco leaf, non-tobacco raw materials, labor and manufacturing costs.      Our marketing, administration and research costs include the costs of marketing our products, other costs generally not related to the manufacture of our products (including general corporate expenses),
and costs incurred to develop new products. The most significant components of our marketing, administration and research costs are marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses.   
  We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our right, and thus the right of our
creditors and stockholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of our company itself as a creditor may be
recognized. As a holding company, our principal sources of funds, including funds to make payment on our debt securities, are from the receipt of dividends and repayment of debt from our subsidiaries. Our principal wholly owned and majority-owned
subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions with respect to their common stock.   
  Prior to March 28, 2008, we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. ( Altria ).   
   Executive Summary       The following
executive summary provides significant highlights from the Discussion and Analysis that follows.   
           Consolidated Operating Results      The changes in our reported diluted earnings per
share ( diluted EPS ) for the year ended December 31, 2011, from the comparable 2010 amounts, were as follows:       
    See the discussion of events affecting the comparability of statement of earnings amounts in the
Consolidated Operating Results section of the following Discussion and Analysis.               Asset
Impairment and Exit Costs      During 2011, we recorded pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $109 million ($82 million after tax or $0.05 per share) primarily related to factory and R D restructurings, as well as a contract
termination charge in EEMA. During 2010, we recorded pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $47 million ($24 million after tax and noncontrolling interest or $0.02 per share) related to severance costs for factory restructurings in the European
Union, as well as a contract termination charge in Asia. For further details, see Note 5.  Asset Impairment and Exit Costs  to our consolidated financial statements.               Income Taxes    Our effective income tax rate for 2011 increased 1.7 percentage points to 29.1%, due primarily to higher discrete tax items in
2010 that benefited our 2010 effective tax rate. The 2011 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by an enacted decrease in corporate income tax rates in Greece ($11 million) and the reversal of a valuation allowance in Brazil ($15 million). The
2010 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by the reversal of tax reserves   
         17   

($148 million) following the conclusion of the IRS examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 2000 through 2003, partially offset by the negative impact of an
enacted increase in corporate income tax rates in Greece ($21 million) and the net result of an audit in Italy ($6 million). The discrete tax items increased our diluted EPS by $0.02 per share in 2011, and by $0.07 per share in 2010.   
           Currency    The favorable currency impact during 2011 was due primarily to the Australian
dollar, the Euro, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen and the Russian ruble, partially offset by the Swiss franc and the Turkish lira.   
           Interest    The favorable impact of interest was due primarily to lower average interest rates
on debt and higher interest income, partially offset by higher average debt levels.               Lower
Shares Outstanding and Share-Based Payments    The favorable diluted EPS impact was due to the repurchase of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program.               Operations    The increase in our operations reflected in the table above was due primarily to the following segments:   

Asia: Higher pricing and favorable volume/mix, partially offset by higher marketing, administration and research costs (including an increased
marketing investment in Japan) and higher manufacturing costs (including higher air freight costs related to increased shipments to Japan); and          

Eastern Europe, Middle East   Africa: Higher pricing and favorable volume/mix, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs and higher
marketing, administration and research costs (principally related to a marketing and business infrastructure investment in Russia).         We broadly estimate that our diluted EPS for 2011 increased by approximately $0.18 as a result of the shortages of competitors  products in Japan following the March 11, 2011, earthquake and
tsunami.      For further details, see the  Consolidated Operating Results  and  Operating Results by Business
Segment  sections of the following  Discussion and Analysis.                2012
Forecasted Results    On February 9, 2012, we announced our forecast for 2012 full-year reported diluted EPS to be in a range of $5.25 to $5.35, at prevailing exchange rates at that time, versus $4.85 in 2011, resulting in an
anticipated unfavorable currency impact of approximately $0.10 in 2012. Excluding the unfavorable currency impact, reported diluted earnings per share are projected to increase by approximately 10% to 12% versus reported diluted earnings per share
in 2011, or by approximately the same percentages versus 2011 adjusted diluted earnings per share of $4.88. We calculated 2011 adjusted diluted EPS as reported diluted EPS of $4.85, less the $0.02 per share benefit of discrete tax items, plus the
$0.05 per share charge related to asset impairment and exit costs. We expect that our 2012 second quarter comparison will be difficult as a result of the unprecedented events in Japan during 2011. This 2012 guidance excludes the impact of potential
future acquisitions, unanticipated asset impairment and exit cost charges and any unusual events. The factors described in the  Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results  section of the following  Discussion and Analysis  represent
continuing risks to this forecast.      Adjusted diluted EPS is not a U.S. GAAP measure. We define adjusted diluted EPS as
reported diluted EPS adjusted for asset impairment and exit costs, discrete tax items and unusual items. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure as it represents core earnings, improves comparability and helps investors analyze
business performance and trends. Adjusted diluted EPS should be considered neither in isolation nor as a substitute for reported diluted EPS prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.       Discussion and Analysis        Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates    
  Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  to our consolidated financial statements includes a summary of the significant accounting
policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. In most instances, we must use a particular accounting policy or method because it is the only one that is permitted under accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ).      The preparation of financial statements requires that we
use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, net revenues and expenses, as well as our disclosure of contingencies. If actual amounts differ from previous estimates, we include the revisions in our
consolidated results of operations in the period during which we know the actual amounts. Historically, aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a significant impact on our consolidated
financial statements.      The selection and disclosure of our critical accounting policies and estimates have been discussed with
our Audit Committee. The following is a discussion of the more significant assumptions, estimates, accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:   
           Revenue Recognition    As required by U.S. GAAP, we recognize revenues, net of sales and
promotion incentives. Our net revenues include excise taxes and shipping and handling charges billed to our customers. Our net revenues are recognized upon shipment or delivery of goods when title and risk of loss pass to our customers. We record
shipping and handling costs paid to third parties as part of cost of sales.               Goodwill and
Non-Amortizable Intangible Assets Valuation    We test goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets annually for impairment or more frequently if events occur that would warrant such review. We perform our annual impairment analysis in the
first quarter of each year. The impairment analysis involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit or non-amortizable intangible asset to the carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, goodwill or a non-amortizable
intangible asset is considered   
         18   

impaired. To determine the fair value of goodwill, we primarily use a discounted cash flow model, supported by the market approach using earnings multiples of comparable companies. To determine
the fair value of non-amortizable intangible assets, we primarily use a discounted cash flow model applying the relief-from-royalty method. These discounted cash flow models include management assumptions relevant for forecasting operating cash
flows, which are subject to changes in business conditions, such as volumes and prices, costs to produce, discount rates and estimated capital needs. Management considers historical experience and all available information at the time the fair
values are estimated, and we believe these assumptions are consistent with the assumptions a hypothetical marketplace participant would use. We concluded that the fair value of our reporting units and non-amortizable intangible assets exceeded the
carrying value and any reasonable movement in the assumptions would not result in an impairment. Since the March 28, 2008, spin-off from Altria, we have not recorded a charge to earnings for an impairment of goodwill or non-amortizable
intangible assets.               Marketing and Advertising Costs    As required by U.S. GAAP, we
record marketing costs as an expense in the year to which costs relate. We do not defer amounts on our balance sheet. We expense advertising costs during the year in which the costs are incurred. We record trade promotion costs as a reduction of
revenues during the year in which these programs are offered, relying on estimates of utilization and redemption rates that have been developed from historical information. Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, rebates, in-store
display incentives and volume-based incentives. For interim reporting purposes, advertising and certain consumer incentives are charged to earnings based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year.   
           Employee Benefit Plans      As discussed in Note 13.  Benefit Plans  to our
consolidated financial statements, we provide a range of benefits to our employees and retired employees, including pensions, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits (primarily severance). We record annual amounts relating to these
plans based on calculations specified by U.S. GAAP. These calculations include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, compensation increases and turnover rates. We review actuarial assumptions
on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. As permitted by U.S. GAAP, any effect of the modifications is generally amortized over future periods. We believe
that the assumptions utilized in calculating our obligations under these plans are reasonable based upon advice from our actuaries.      At December 31, 2011, our discount rate was 4.50% for our U.S. pension and postretirement plans. This rate was 90 basis points lower than our 2010 discount rate. Our weighted-average discount rate
assumption for our non-U.S. pension plans decreased to 3.40%, from 4.00% at December 31, 2010. Our weighted-average discount rate assumption for our non-U.S. postretirement plans was 5.45% at December 31, 2011, and 5.14% at
December 31, 2010. We anticipate that assumption changes, coupled with the amortization of deferred gains and losses, will increase 2012 pre-tax U.S. and non-U.S. pension and postretirement expense to approximately $230 million as compared with
$155 million in 2011, excluding amounts related to early retirement programs. A fifty-basis-point decrease in our discount rate would increase our 2012 pension and postretirement expense by approximately $40 million, and a fifty-basis-point increase
in our discount rate would decrease our 2012 pension and postretirement expense by the same amount. Similarly, a fifty-basis-point decrease (increase) in the expected return on plan assets would increase (decrease) our 2012 pension expense by
approximately $25 million.      See Note 13.  Benefit Plans  to our consolidated financial statements for a sensitivity
discussion of the assumed health care cost trend rates.               Income Taxes    
 Prior to the spin-off of PMI by Altria, we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Altria. We participated in a tax-sharing agreement with Altria for U.S. tax liabilities, and our accounts were included with those of Altria for purposes of its U.S.
federal income tax return. Under the terms of the agreement, taxes were computed on a separate company basis. To the extent that we generated foreign tax credits, capital losses and other credits that could not be utilized on a separate company
basis, but were utilized in Altria s consolidated U.S. federal income tax return, we would recognize the resulting benefit in the calculation of our provision for income taxes. We made payments to, or were reimbursed by, Altria for the tax
effects resulting from our inclusion in Altria s consolidated United States federal income tax return. On the date of the spin-off of PMI by Altria, we entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement with Altria. The Tax Sharing Agreement generally
governs Altria s and our respective rights, responsibilities and obligations for pre-distribution periods and for potential taxes on the spin-off of PMI by Altria. With respect to any potential tax resulting from the spin-off of PMI by Altria,
responsibility for the tax will be allocated to the party that acted (or failed to act) in a manner which resulted in the tax. Beginning March 31, 2008, we were no longer a member of the Altria consolidated tax return group, and we filed our
own U.S. federal consolidated income tax return.      Income tax provisions for jurisdictions outside the United States, as well
as state and local income tax provisions, are determined on a separate company basis, and the related assets and liabilities are recorded in our consolidated balance sheets.      The extent of our operations involves dealing with uncertainties and judgments in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. The final taxes paid are dependent upon many
factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from federal, state, and international tax audits. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for income taxes, we evaluate
potential tax exposures and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances;
however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may   
         19   

result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional
charge to expense would result. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no
longer necessary.      The effective tax rates used for interim reporting are based on our full-year geographic earnings mix
projections and cash repatriation plans. Changes in currency exchange rates, earnings mix or in cash repatriation plans could have an impact on the effective tax rates, which we monitor each quarter. Significant judgment is required in determining
income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.               Hedging      As
discussed below in  Market Risk,  we use derivative financial instruments principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. For derivatives to
which we have elected to apply hedge accounting, we meet the requirements of U.S. GAAP. As a result, gains and losses on these derivatives are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive losses and recognized in the consolidated statement of
earnings in the periods when the related hedged transactions are also recognized in operating results. If we had elected not to use the hedge accounting provisions permitted under U.S. GAAP, gains (losses) deferred in stockholders  equity would
have been recorded in our net earnings.               Contingencies      As discussed in
Note 21.  Contingencies  to our consolidated financial statements, legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened against us and/or our subsidiaries, and/or our indemnitees in various jurisdictions. We and our
subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The variability in pleadings in multiple
jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. Much of the tobacco-related litigation is
in its early stages, and litigation is subject to uncertainty. At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, after assessing the information available to it (i) management has not
concluded that it is probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss for any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and
(iii) accordingly, no estimated loss has been accrued in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes in these cases, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.   
   Consolidated Operating Results       See
pages 41 to 44 for a discussion of  Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results.  Our cigarette volume, net revenues, excise taxes on products and operating companies income by segment were as follows:   
   
    As discussed in Note 12.  Segment Reporting  to our consolidated financial statements, we evaluate
segment performance and allocate resources based on operating companies income, which we define as operating income before general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help
investors analyze the business performance and trends of our various business segments.      References to total international
cigarette market, total cigarette market, total market and market shares throughout this Discussion and Analysis are our estimates based on a number of internal and external sources.   
         20   

The following events that occurred during 2011, 2010 and 2009 affected the comparability of
our statement of earnings amounts:               Asset Impairment and Exit Costs      For
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs by segment were as follows:       
    For further details, see Note 5.  Asset Impairment and Exit Costs  to our consolidated financial
statements.               Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement Charge      The
2009 operating companies income of the Latin America   Canada segment included a pre-tax charge of $135 million related to the Investment and Cooperation Agreement in Colombia. For further details, see Note 18.  Colombian Investment and
Cooperation Agreement  to our consolidated financial statements.               Acquisitions and Other
Business Arrangements      For further details, see Note 6.  Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements  to our consolidated financial statements.       2011 compared with 2010       The following discussion compares our consolidated operating
results for the year ended December 31, 2011, with the year ended December 31, 2010.      Our cigarette shipment volume
of 915.3 billion units increased 15.4 billion (1.7%), due primarily to gains in:       

Asia, primarily driven by a higher total market and share in Indonesia, higher share in Japan (including the benefit from the shortages of
competitors  products) and Korea, as well as the favorable impact of the business combination in the Philippines; and          

EEMA, primarily due to higher total markets in Algeria and Saudi Arabia, and higher share in Algeria and Turkey.      
  These gains were partially offset by declines in:       

the European Union, primarily due to lower total markets and share, mainly in Italy, Portugal and Spain, and a lower total market in Greece; and

Latin America   Canada, due mainly to Mexico, reflecting a lower total market, partly offset by a higher total market and share in Argentina,
and higher share in Canada.         Excluding acquisitions (primarily the business combination with Fortune Tobacco
Corporation in the Philippines), our cigarette shipment volume was up 0.5%, driven by growth from each of our top ten brands by volume, which, collectively, represented more than 75% of our total cigarette shipment volume.   
  Our market share performance was stable or registered growth in a number of markets, including Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand and Turkey.   
  Total cigarette shipments of  Marlboro  of 300.1 billion units were up by 0.9%, due primarily to an increase in Asia of 8.8%, mainly
Indonesia, Japan, Korea and Vietnam; and growth in EEMA of 5.3%, primarily due to the Middle East and North Africa. These increases were partially offset by declines in the European Union of 5.1%, mainly reflecting lower total markets and share,
primarily in Italy, Portugal and Spain, a lower market in Greece, and lower share in Germany, partly offset by share growth in Belgium and Hungary; and in Latin America   Canada of 5.8%, mainly due to a lower total market in Mexico, partly
offset by share growth in Argentina, Colombia and Brazil.      Total cigarette shipments of  L M  of 90.1 billion units
were up by 1.7%, reflecting growth in the European Union, EEMA and Latin America   Canada segments. Total cigarette shipments of  Chesterfield  of 36.7 billion units were up by 0.6%, driven by growth in the European Union, primarily in
Germany and Portugal. Total cigarette shipments of  Parliament  of 39.4 billion units were up by 12.1%. Total cigarette shipments of  Lark  of 33.7 billion units increased by 17.5%, driven by growth in Japan, partially offset by a decline
in Turkey. Total cigarette shipments of  Bond Street  of 45.0 billion units increased by 2.0%, led mainly by growth in Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine, partially offset by declines in Hungary and Turkey. Total cigarette shipments of  Philip
Morris  of 39.3 billion units increased by 1.4%, mainly reflecting growth in Japan and Argentina, partly offset by a decline in the Philippines.      Total shipment volume of other tobacco products (OTP), in cigarette equivalent units, excluding acquisitions, grew by 7.2%, notably in Benelux, France, Italy and Germany.   
  Total shipment volume for cigarettes and OTP combined was up by 0.7% excluding acquisitions.   
         21   

Our net revenues and excise taxes on products were as follows:   
   
    Currency movements increased net revenues by $2.6 billion and net revenues, excluding excise taxes on
products, by $1.2 billion. The $1.2 billion increase was due primarily to the Australian dollar, the Euro, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen, Russian ruble and the Swiss franc, partially offset by the Turkish lira.   
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $8.6 billion (12.7%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues
increased $3.9 billion (14.3%) to $31.1 billion. This increase was due to:       

price increases ($1.9 billion),          

favorable currency ($1.2 billion),          

favorable volume/mix ($609 million) and          

the impact of acquisitions ($137 million).         Excise taxes on products increased $4.7 billion (11.7%), due to:       

higher excise taxes resulting from changes in retail prices and tax rates ($3.2 billion),      

currency movements ($1.3 billion),          

the impact of acquisitions ($52 million).         Governments have consistently increased excise taxes in most of the markets in which we operate. As discussed under the caption  Business Environment,  we expect excise taxes to continue to
increase.      Our cost of sales; marketing, administration and research costs; and operating income were as follows:   
   
    Cost of sales increased $965 million (9.9%), due to:   

higher manufacturing costs ($428 million, including air freight costs related to additional shipments to Japan),      

the impact of acquisitions ($96 million).         With regard to tobacco leaf prices, we expect modest increases going forward, broadly in line with inflation, as the market has now been stabilized, due in part to our increased direct involvement with
local farmers. We also anticipate some cost pressure in 2012, driven in large measure by the historical leaf tobacco price increases that will continue to affect our product costs in the current year, higher prices for cloves and higher prices for a
number of other direct materials we use in the production of our brands.      Marketing, administration and research costs
increased $720 million (11.7%), due to:       

higher expenses ($278 million, principally related to increased marketing investment in Japan and Russia, and business infrastructure investment in
Russia) and          

the impact of acquisitions ($15 million).         Operating income increased $2.1 billion (19.0%). This increase was due primarily to:       

price increases ($1.9 billion),          

favorable currency ($565 million) and          

favorable volume/mix ($422 million), partially offset by      

higher manufacturing expenses ($428 million),          

higher marketing, administration and research costs ($278 million) and      

higher asset impairment and exit costs ($62 million).         Interest expense, net, of $800 million decreased $76 million, due primarily to lower average interest rates on debt and higher interest income, partially offset by higher average debt levels.   
  Our effective tax rate increased 1.7 percentage points to 29.1%, due primarily to higher discrete tax items in 2010 that benefited our
2010 effective tax rate. The 2011 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by an enacted decrease in corporate income tax rates in Greece ($11 million) and the reversal of a valuation allowance in Brazil ($15 million). The 2010 effective tax rate
was favorably impacted by the reversal of tax reserves ($148 million) following the conclusion of the IRS examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 2000 through 2003, partially offset by the negative impact of
an enacted increase in corporate income tax rates in Greece ($21 million) and the net result of an audit in Italy ($6 million). The effective tax rate is based on our full-year geographic earnings mix and cash repatriation plans. Changes in our cash
repatriation plans could have an impact on the effective tax rate, which we monitor each quarter. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions. Based upon tax regulations in existence at
December 31, 2011, and our cash repatriation plans, we estimate that our 2012 effective tax rate will be approximately 29% to 30%.      We are regularly examined by tax authorities around the world, and we are currently under examination in a number of jurisdictions. It is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months certain tax
examinations will close, which could result in a change in unrecognized tax benefits along with related interest and penalties. An estimate of any possible change cannot be made at this time.   
         22   

Net earnings attributable to PMI of $8.6 billion increased $1.3 billion (18.3%). This
increase was due primarily to higher operating income, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate. Diluted and basic EPS of $4.85 increased by 23.7% and 23.4%, respectively. Excluding a favorable currency impact of $0.19, diluted EPS increased
18.9%.       2010 compared with 2009       The following discussion compares our consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2010, with the year ended December 31, 2009.   
  Our cigarette shipment volume of 899.9 billion units increased 35.8 billion (4.1%), due primarily to gains in:   

Asia, driven by growth in Indonesia, reflecting a higher total market; Korea, driven by higher share; and the favorable impact of the business
combination with Fortune Tobacco Corporation in the Philippines of 57.4 billion units; partially offset by Japan, due to the lower total market reflecting the impact of the October 1, 2010, tax-driven retail price increases and unfavorable
trade inventory movements, partly offset by higher market share; and          

Latin America   Canada, mainly due to Canada, reflecting a higher tax-paid market, and Mexico, partially driven by trade inventory movements
ahead of the January 1, 2011, excise tax increase.         These gains were partially offset by declines in:

the European Union, primarily reflecting lower total markets, notably in the Baltic States, Greece, Poland and Spain, driven by tax-driven price
increases and adverse economic conditions; and lower market share, mainly in the Czech Republic, Germany, Greece and Portugal; and          

EEMA, primarily due to: Romania, reflecting a lower total market and lower market share following excise tax increases in 2009 and January and July
2010, as well as unfavorable trade inventory movements; Turkey, reflecting the unfavorable impact of a significant excise tax increase in January 2010; and Ukraine, reflecting the unfavorable impact of steep tax-driven price increases in January and
July 2010; partially offset by increases in Russia, due primarily to higher market share and favorable distributor inventory movements; and North Africa, primarily Algeria, reflecting higher market share.      
  Excluding acquisitions (primarily the business combination with Fortune Tobacco Corporation in the Philippines), our cigarette shipment
volume was down 2.5%.      Our market share performance was stable or registered growth in a number of markets, including Algeria,
Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Egypt, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Poland, Russia, Singapore, Switzerland and Thailand.      Total cigarette shipments of  Marlboro  of 297.4 billion units were down by 1.5%, due primarily to a decrease in the European Union of 5.8%, mainly reflecting: lower share in Germany, lower share in
Greece, driven by excise tax and VAT-driven price increases, and a lower total market in Spain; a decrease in EEMA of 1.5%, primarily due to Turkey, reflecting tax-driven price increases; Romania and Russia, partially offset by strong growth in
North Africa; an increase in Asia of 3.0%, led by growth in Korea and the Philippines, offset by Japan following the significant tax increase of October 1, 2010; and growth in Latin America and Canada of 2.1%, driven by Colombia and Mexico.
     Total cigarette shipments of  L M  of 88.6 billion units were down by 2.4%, with shipment growth in the European
Union, primarily in Germany and Greece, more than offset by EEMA, primarily due to declines in Russia and Ukraine, partly offset by growth in Algeria. Total  Chesterfield  cigarette shipments of 36.4 billion units declined 3.3%, driven by lower
shipments in Spain and Ukraine, partially offset by growth in Poland and Russia. Total cigarette shipments of  Parliament  of 35.2 billion units were down by 5.7%, due primarily to declines in Japan and Turkey, partially offset by growth in
Korea. Total cigarette shipments of  Lark  of 28.7 billion units decreased by 6.0%, due primarily to declines in Japan, partially offset by growth in Turkey. Total cigarette shipments of  Bond Street  of 44.1 billion units increased by
5.7%, driven by double-digit growth in Russia, partly offset by declines in Turkey and Ukraine.      Total shipment volume of
other tobacco products (OTP), in cigarette equivalent units, grew by 35.1%, benefiting from the acquisition of Swedish Match South Africa (Proprietary) Limited. Excluding acquisitions, shipment volume of OTP was down by 4.3%, primarily due to lower
volume in Poland, reflecting the impact of the excise tax alignment of pipe tobacco to roll-your-own in the first quarter of 2009, partly offset by the growth of fine cut in Belgium, Germany and Spain.   
  Total shipment volume for cigarettes and OTP was up by 4.8%, or down by 2.5% excluding acquisitions.   
  Our net revenues and excise taxes on products were as follows:   
   
    Currency movements increased net revenues by $1.6 billion and net revenues, excluding excise taxes on
products, by $694 million. The $694 million increase was due primarily to the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen, Korean won, Mexican peso, Russian ruble and Turkish lira, partially offset by the
Argentine peso and the Euro.   
         23   

Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $5.6 billion (9.1%).
Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $2.2 billion (8.7%) to $27.2 billion. This increase was due to:       

price increases ($1.7 billion),          

favorable currency ($694 million) and          

the impact of acquisitions ($631 million), partially offset by      
   
    Excise taxes on products increased $3.5 billion (9.3%), due to:       

higher excise taxes resulting from changes in retail prices and tax rates ($3.9 billion),      

currency movements ($863 million) and          

the impact of acquisitions ($246 million), partially offset by      

lower volume/mix ($1.5 billion).         Our cost of sales; marketing, administration and research costs; and operating income were as follows:       
    Cost of sales increased $691 million (7.7%), due to:   

the impact of acquisitions ($480 million),          

currency movements ($176 million) and          

higher manufacturing costs ($165 million, primarily leaf tobacco costs), partially offset by      
   
    Marketing, administration and research costs increased $290 million (4.9%), due to:       

higher expenses ($228 million, primarily general and administrative as well as research and development costs),      

the impact of acquisitions ($20 million), partially offset by      

the 2009 charge related to the Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement ($135 million).      
  Operating income increased $1.2 billion (11.6%). This increase was due primarily to:   

price increases ($1.7 billion),          

the 2009 charge related to the Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement ($135 million) and      

the impact of acquisitions ($131 million), partially offset by      

higher marketing, administration and research costs ($228 million),      

higher manufacturing costs ($165 million) and          

higher asset impairment and exit costs ($18 million).         Interest expense, net, of $876 million increased $79 million, due primarily to higher average debt levels and lower interest income, partially offset by lower average interest rates on debt.   
  Our effective tax rate decreased 1.7 percentage points to 27.4%. The 2010 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by the reversal of
tax reserves ($148 million) following the conclusion of the IRS examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 2000 through 2003, partially offset by the negative impact of an enacted increase in corporate income tax
rates in Greece ($21 million) and the net result of an audit in Italy ($6 million).      Net earnings attributable to PMI of $7.3
billion increased $917 million (14.5%). This increase was due primarily to higher operating income and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by higher interest expense, net. Diluted EPS of $3.92 and basic EPS of $3.93 increased by 21.0% and
20.9%, respectively. Excluding a favorable currency impact of $0.12, diluted EPS increased 17.3%.       Operating Results by Business Segment
       Business Environment    
    Taxes, Legislation, Regulation and Other Matters Regarding the Manufacture, Marketing, Sale and Use of Tobacco Products     
  The tobacco industry faces a number of challenges that may adversely affect our business, volume, results of operations, cash flows and financial
position. These challenges, which are discussed below and in   Cautionary   Factors That May Affect Future Results,   include:       

actual and proposed tobacco legislation and regulation;      

actual and proposed excise tax increases, as well as changes in excise tax structures and retail selling price regulations;

price gaps and changes in price gaps between premium and mid-price and low-price brands and between cigarettes and other tobacco products;

illicit trade in cigarettes and other tobacco products, including counterfeit and contraband;      
         24   

significant governmental actions aimed at imposing regulatory requirements impacting our ability to communicate with adult consumers and differentiate
our products from competitors  products;          

increased efforts by tobacco control advocates to  denormalize  smoking and seek the implementation of extreme regulatory measures;

proposed legislation to mandate plain (generic) packaging resulting in the expropriation of our trademarks;      

pending and threatened litigation as discussed in Note 21.  Contingencies;       

actual and proposed requirements for the disclosure of cigarette ingredients and other proprietary information without adequate trade secret
protection;          

disproportionate testing requirements and performance standards;      

actual and proposed restrictions on the use of tobacco product ingredients, including a complete ban of tobacco product ingredients;

actual and proposed restrictions on imports in certain jurisdictions;      

actual and proposed restrictions affecting tobacco manufacturing, packaging, marketing, advertising, product display and sales;

governmental and private bans and restrictions on smoking;      

the outcome of proceedings and investigations, and the potential assertion of claims, and proposed regulation relating to contraband shipments of
cigarettes; and          

governmental investigations.         In the ordinary course of business, many factors can affect the timing of sales to customers, including the timing of holidays and other annual or special events, the timing of promotions, customer
incentive programs and customer inventory programs, as well as the actual or speculated timing of pricing actions and tax-driven price increases.                   Framework Convention on
Tobacco Control:  The World Health Organization s ( WHO ) Framework Convention on Tobacco Control ( FCTC ) entered into force in February 2005. As of February 2012, 174 countries, as well as the European Community, have
become Parties to the FCTC. The FCTC is the first international public health treaty, and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation. The
treaty recommends (and, in certain instances, requires) Parties to have in place or enact legislation that would:       

establish specific actions to prevent youth smoking;          

restrict and/or eliminate all tobacco product advertising, marketing, promotions and sponsorships;      

initiate public education campaigns to inform the public about the health consequences of smoking and the benefits of quitting;

implement regulations imposing product testing, disclosure and performance standards;      

impose health warning requirements on packaging;          

adopt measures aimed at eliminating cigarette smuggling and counterfeit cigarettes;      

restrict smoking in public places;          

implement public health-based fiscal policies (tax and price measures);      

adopt and implement measures that ensure that packaging and labeling, including descriptive terms, do not create the false impression that one brand of
cigarettes is safer than another;          

phase out or restrict duty free tobacco sales; and          

encourage litigation against tobacco product manufacturers.         In many respects, the areas of regulation we support mirror provisions of the FCTC, such as regulation of advertising and marketing, product content and emissions, sales to minors, public smoking and the
use of tax and price policy to achieve public health objectives. However, we disagree with the provisions of the FCTC that call for a total ban on marketing, a total ban on public smoking, a ban on the sale of duty free cigarettes, and the use of
litigation against the tobacco industry. We also believe that excessive taxation can have significant adverse consequences. The speed at which tobacco regulation has been adopted in our markets has increased as a result of the treaty.   
          Following the entry into force of the FCTC, the Conference of the Parties ( CoP ), the
governing body of the FCTC, has adopted several guidelines that provide non-binding recommendations to the Parties supplementing specific Articles of the Treaty. The recommendations include measures that we strongly oppose, such as point-of-sale
display bans, plain (generic) packaging, a ban on all forms of communications to adult smokers, measures to prohibit or restrict ingredients that may increase the palatability or attractiveness of tobacco products, and limits on tobacco industry
involvement in the development of tobacco policy and regulations. These recommendations reflect an extreme application of the Treaty, are not based on sound evidence of a public health benefit and are likely to lead to adverse consequences. In fact,
as we discuss below, they are likely to undermine public health by leading to a further increase in illicit trade and low-price cigarettes and, in the case of measures such as plain packaging, will additionally result in the expropriation of our
trademarks, harm competition and violate international treaties.      It is not possible to predict whether or to what extent the
various guidelines will be adopted by governments. If governments choose to implement regulation based on these extreme recommendations, such regulation may adversely affect our business, volume, results of operations, cash flows and financial
position. In some instances, including those   
         25   

described below, where such regulation has been adopted, we have commenced legal proceedings challenging the regulation. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these legal proceedings.

Excise Taxes:  Cigarettes are subject to substantial excise taxes and to other product taxation worldwide. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue
to be proposed or enacted. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, our products are subject to tax structures that discriminate against premium price products and manufactured cigarettes.   
  At the fourth session of the CoP, it was decided to establish a working group to develop guidelines on price and tax measures to reduce
the demand for tobacco (Article 6 of the FCTC). Draft guidelines will be presented to the fifth CoP scheduled for November 2012. We strongly oppose excessive and disruptive excise tax increases, which encourage illicit trade and drive consumers to
low-price and alternative tobacco products. Such tax increases undermine public health and ultimately undercut government revenue objectives.      Tax increases and discriminatory tax structures are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our sales of cigarettes, due to lower consumption levels and to a shift in consumer purchases from the
premium to non-premium or discount segments or other low-price or low-taxed tobacco products such as fine-cut tobacco products and/or counterfeit and contraband products.                   EU Tobacco Products
Directive:  In 2010, the European Commission conducted a public consultation on the revision of the EU Tobacco Products Directive (2001/37/EC), seeking a  wide range of views on factors such as labeling and health warnings on tobacco
packets and additives used as tobacco ingredients.  Policy options submitted for comment included measures we oppose, such as plain packaging, a point-of-sale display ban, an ingredients ban, and oversized health warnings, covering 75% of the
front and 100% of the back of cigarette packs. Over 85,000 submissions have been made in response to the public consultation.   
  The Commission has stated that it hopes to make a proposal for amending the EU Tobacco Products Directive in 2012. Thereafter, the
proposal requires approval by the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers, a process that is expected to take several years. It is not possible to predict what amendments, if any, will be proposed and ultimately adopted.   
          
     Plain Packaging:  While to date no country other than Australia has adopted this measure, plain packaging proposals have received support from tobacco control advocates as well as some individual legislators and public
health officials in various other countries. Also, as noted above, the FCTC s CoP adopted guidelines recommending plain packaging in 2008. We strongly oppose plain packaging, which would not only constitute an expropriation of our valuable
trademarks, but would be a pure and simple confiscation of the core of our business. Transforming the industry into a low price commodity business will not reduce consumption, smoking incidence or initiation. Indeed, plain packaging is a misguided
measure that will undermine the public health objectives of its proponents. Furthermore, it will impair free competition, jeopardize freedom of trade, stifle product innovation and spur illicit trade and counterfeit activity to the detriment of the
legitimate industry, its entire supply chain and government revenues. Moreover, the imposition of plain packaging would violate the terms of international treaties governing the protection of industrial property and the trade-related aspects of
intellectual property rights, and several countries have specifically raised these issues with respect to Australia s plain packaging legislation. We will take all steps necessary to ensure that all constituencies understand the adverse
consequences of plain packaging and to obtain all protection and relief to which we are entitled under the law.      In Australia,
the Tobacco Plain Packaging Bill 2011 and the Trade Marks Amendment (Tobacco Plain Packaging) Bill 2011 were passed by the Federal Parliament in November 2011 and given Royal assent on December 1, 2011. The legislation will ban, as of
December 1, 2012, the use of company branding, logos and colors on packaging other than the brand name and variant which may be printed only in specified locations and in uniform font. It also includes a provision that renders the plain
packaging requirements inapplicable to any property (e.g., trademarks, logos, etc.) that a court determines has been expropriated by the legislation. Also, on December 22, 2011, the government amended the health warning requirements to mandate,
among other things, increased warning labels on the front of the pack from 30% to 75% effective from January 1, 2012, with transition provisions applicable until December 1, 2012, to coincide with the full compliance deadline for plain
packaging.      In June 2011, our subsidiary, Philip Morris Asia Limited, served a notice of claim on the government stating its
intention to take Australia to international arbitration pursuant to the Hong Kong-Australia Bilateral Investment Treaty regarding plain packaging for tobacco products. The parties were not able to reach an amicable settlement, so formal arbitration
proceedings under the Investment Treaty were initiated against the government on November 21, 2011. In the arbitration, Philip Morris Asia Limited is seeking substantial compensation from the government.   
  Further, on December 20, 2011, our Australian subsidiary, Philip Morris Limited, filed a lawsuit against the government in the High
Court of Australia. Philip Morris Limited is challenging the plain packaging legislation on the basis that the legislation violates the Australian Constitution by acquiring Philip Morris Limited s property without paying for it. Other tobacco
companies have filed similar lawsuits against the government.              In March 2011, the UK
government stated, in its Tobacco Control Plan, that it  wants to understand whether there is evidence to demonstrate that plain packaging would have an additional public health benefit  and it will also  explore the competition,
trade and legal implications, and the likely impact on the illicit tobacco market.  The UK government indicated that it would begin consultation on plain packaging in spring 2012.                   Brand Descriptors:  Many
countries, and the EU, prohibit or are in the process of prohibiting descriptors such as  lights,   mild  and  low tar.  The FCTC requires the Parties to adopt and implement measures to ensure that tobacco
  
         26   

product packaging and labeling, including descriptive terms, do not create  the false impression that a particular tobacco product is less harmful than other tobacco products. 
     Some public health advocates, governments, and the guidelines issued by the FCTC s CoP have called for a ban or
restriction on the use of colors, which they claim are also used to signify that some brands provide lower yields of tar, nicotine and other smoke constituents. Other governments have banned, sought to ban or restricted the use of descriptive terms
they regard as misleading, including, in at least one country, the use of colors, and terms such as  premium,   full flavor,   international,   gold,  and  silver,  and one permits only one pack
variation per brand, arguing that such terms or pack variations are inherently misleading. We believe such regulations are unreasonably broad, go beyond the scope and intent of legislation designed to prevent consumers from believing that one brand
is less harmful than another, unduly restrict our intellectual property and other rights, and violate international trade commitments. As such, we oppose these types of regulations, and in some instances we have commenced litigation to challenge
them.               Testing and Reporting of Other Smoke Constituents:  Several countries, including
Brazil, Canada, and Taiwan, require manufacturers to test and report to regulators certain by-brand yields of other smoke constituents from the 45 to 80 that have been identified as potential causes of tobacco-related diseases. We measure many of
these constituents for our product research and development purposes and support efforts to develop reasonable regulation in this area. However, there is no international consensus on which smoke constituents cause the full range of diseases
associated with tobacco use, and there are very limited internationally validated analytical methods to measure the constituents  yields in the smoke. Moreover, there is extremely limited capacity to conduct by-brand testing on a global basis.
It is not certain when actual testing requirements will be recommended by the FCTC s CoP and whether individual countries will adopt them, although bills to require testing of a wide range of smoke constituent yields are pending in some
countries. The cost of by-brand testing could be significant, and public health groups, including the relevant CoP Working Group, have recommended that tobacco companies should be required to bear that cost.   
                   Ceilings
 on Tar, Nicotine, Carbon Monoxide and Other Smoke Constituents:  Despite the fact that public health authorities have questioned the significance of ISO-measured tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields, a number of countries, including all EU
Member States, have established maximum yields of tar, nicotine and/or carbon monoxide, as measured by the ISO standard test method. No country to date has adopted ceilings based on an alternative test method or for other smoke constituents. In
2009, the WHO s Study Group on Tobacco Regulation ( TobReg ) recommended that governments establish ceilings for nine specific smoke constituents, including tobacco-specific nitrosamines. The TobReg proposal would set ceilings based
on the median yield for each constituent in the market determined by testing all brands sold in the market. Although this concept of  selective constituent reduction  is supported by some public health officials, several public health
advocates and scientists have criticized the proposal on the grounds that selectively reducing  some  constituents in conventional cigarettes will not lead to a meaningful reduction in disease and thus will not benefit public health and/or will
mislead consumers into believing that conventional cigarettes with regulated (i.e., reduced) levels of these constituents are safer.   
                   Ingredient
 Disclosure Laws:  Many countries have enacted or proposed legislation or regulations that require cigarette manufacturers to disclose to governments and to the public the ingredients used in the manufacture of cigarettes and, in certain cases,
to provide toxicological information about those ingredients. While we believe the public health objectives of these requests can be met without providing exact by-brand formulae, we have made and will continue to make full disclosures to
governments where adequate assurances of trade secret protection are provided. For example, under the EU Tobacco Products Directive, tobacco companies are required to disclose ingredients and toxicological information to each Member State. We have
made ingredient disclosures in compliance with the laws of EU Member States, making full by-brand disclosures in a manner that protects trade secrets. In jurisdictions where appropriate assurances of trade secret protection are not possible to
obtain, we will seek to resolve the matter with governments through alternative options.                   Restrictions and Bans on the Use of Ingredients:  Several countries have laws
and/or regulations governing the use of ingredients in tobacco products that have been in place for many years. Our products comply with those laws. Until recently, efforts to regulate ingredients have focused on whether ingredients added to
cigarettes increase the toxicity and/or addictiveness of cigarette smoke. Increasingly, however, tobacco control advocates and some regulators, including the WHO, the European Commission, and individual governments, are considering regulating or
have regulated cigarette ingredients with the stated objective of reducing the  palatability  and  attractiveness  of cigarette smoke, smoking and tobacco products. The Canadian federal government adopted a bill, which became
effective in July 2010, that banned virtually all flavor ingredients in cigarettes and little cigars. The bill has had the effect of banning traditional American blend cigarettes in Canada, which represented a share of below 1% of the Canadian
market.      In November 2010, the fourth session of the CoP adopted  partial  and  provisional  guidelines on
Articles 9 and 10 of the FCTC (regulation of contents and disclosure of tobacco products). Among other things, these guidelines recommend that Parties implement measures to prohibit or restrict ingredients and colorings that may increase the
palatability or attractiveness of tobacco products. The CoP determined that these guidelines will have to be periodically re-assessed  in light of the scientific evidence and country experience  and mandated that the Working Group on
Articles 9 and 10 present a set of recommendations focused on toxicity and addictiveness to the fifth session of the CoP in November 2012.   
         27   

We support regulations that would prohibit the use of ingredients that are determined, based
on sound scientific test methods and data, to significantly increase the inherent toxicity and/or addictiveness of smoke. The outcome of the fourth session of the CoP makes clear that there is a need for further work to develop a science-based
framework for ingredients regulation. We oppose regulations that would ban ingredients to reduce the palatability or attractiveness of tobacco products because, in light of the millions of smokers in countries like Canada, the UK and China who
prefer cigarettes without ingredients, there is no reasonable basis to conclude that an ingredient ban would reduce smoking prevalence.   
                   Bans
 and Restrictions on Advertising, Marketing, Promotions and Sponsorships:  For many years, countries have imposed partial or total bans on tobacco advertising, marketing and promotion. The FCTC calls for a  comprehensive ban on advertising,
promotion and sponsorship  and requires governments that have no constitutional constraints to ban all forms of advertising. Where constitutional constraints exist, the FCTC requires governments to restrict or ban radio, television, print
media, other media, including the Internet, and sponsorships of international events within five years of the effective date of a country s ratification of the FCTC. The FCTC also requires disclosure of expenditures on advertising, promotion
and sponsorship where such activities are not prohibited. The CoP adopted guidelines that recommend that governments adopt extreme and sweeping prohibitions, including all forms of communications to adult smokers. We oppose complete bans on
advertising and communications. We also believe that the available evidence does not support the contention that limitations on marketing are effective in reducing smoking prevalence, but we would generally not oppose such limitations as long as
manufacturers retain the ability to communicate directly and effectively to adult smokers.                       Bans on Display of Tobacco Products at Retail:  Some countries have
adopted, or are considering adopting, bans of product displays at point of sale. We oppose product display bans on the grounds that the data show that where display bans have been implemented they have not reduced smoking prevalence or had any
material beneficial impact on public health, and that display bans unnecessarily restrict competition and encourage illicit trade   all of which undermine public health objectives. In some markets, our subsidiaries and, in some cases,
individual retailers, have commenced legal proceedings to overturn display bans.                       Health Warning Requirements:  Many countries require substantial health
warnings on cigarette packs. In the EU, for example, health warnings currently must cover between 30% and 35% of the front and between 40% and 50% of the back of cigarette packs. The FCTC requires health warnings that cover, at a minimum, 30% of the
front and back of the pack, and recommends warnings covering 50% or more of the front and back of the pack. Following the FCTC, many countries have increased the size of their health warnings. To date, however, only a few countries have implemented
warnings that are more than 50% of the front and/or back of the pack. They include, for instance, Australia (30% front, going to 75% as of December 1, 2012, and 90% back), Mexico (30% front and 100% back) and Uruguay (80% front and back), and
Canada passed legislation mandating health warnings on 75% of the front and back of the packs. We support health warning requirements and, with certain exceptions, defer to the governments on the content of the warnings. In countries where health
warnings are not required, we place them on packaging voluntarily in the official language or languages of the country. For example, we are voluntarily placing health warnings on packaging in many African countries in official local languages
occupying 30% of the front and back of the pack. We oppose warning size requirements that infringe on our intellectual property rights, leaving insufficient space for our distinctive trademarks and pack designs. In some markets, for example in
Uruguay, we have commenced legal proceedings challenging the disproportionate warning size requirements. We also oppose regulations that would require the placement of health warnings in the middle of the front and back of the pack, as such
placement serves no purpose other than to disrupt our trademarks and pack design. While we believe that textual warnings are sufficient, we do not oppose graphic warnings except for images that vilify tobacco companies and their employees or do not
accurately represent the health effects of tobacco use.      We believe governments should continue to educate the public on the
serious health effects of smoking. We have established a Web site that includes, among other things, the views of public health authorities on smoking, disease causation in smokers, addiction and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke
( ETS ). The site reflects our agreement with the medical and scientific consensus that cigarette smoking is addictive and causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema and other serious diseases in smokers. The Web site advises the public
to rely on the messages of public health authorities in making all smoking-related decisions. The Web site s address is www.pmi.com. The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this document or incorporated
into any filings we make with the SEC.                       Restrictions on Public Smoking:  The pace and scope of public smoking restrictions have increased significantly in most of our markets. In the EU,
all countries have regulations in place that restrict or ban smoking in public and/or work places, restaurants, bars and nightclubs. Some EU member states allow narrow exemptions from smoking bans, for instance for separate smoking rooms in the
hospitality sector, but others have banned virtually all indoor public smoking. In other regions, many countries have adopted or are likely to adopt regulations introducing substantial public smoking restrictions similar to those in the EU,
including Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Thailand and Turkey. In 2009, the Council of the European Union made a non-binding recommendation calling on all EU Member States to introduce, by 2012, comprehensive public smoking restrictions covering all
closed public places, workplaces and public transport. Some public health groups have called for, and some regional governments and municipalities have adopted or proposed, bans on smoking in outdoor places, as well as bans on smoking in cars with
minors in them. The FCTC requires Parties to the treaty to adopt restrictions on public smoking, and the CoP adopted guidelines on public smoking based on the premise   
         28   

that any exposure to ETS is harmful; the guidelines call for total bans in all indoor public places, defining  indoor  broadly, and reject any exemptions based on type of venue (e.g.,
nightclubs). On private place smoking, such as in cars and homes, the guidelines recommend increased education on the risk of exposure to ETS.      We support a single, consistent public health message on the health effects of exposure to ETS. Our Web site states that  the conclusions of public health authorities on secondhand smoke warrant
public health measures that regulate smoking in public places  and that  outright bans are appropriate in many places.  For example, we support banning smoking in schools, playgrounds and other facilities for youth and in indoor
public places where general public services are provided, such as public transportation vehicles, supermarkets, public spaces in indoor shopping centers, cinemas, banks and post offices. We believe, however, that governments can and should seek a
balance between the desire to protect non-smokers from exposure to secondhand smoke and allowing the millions of people who smoke to do so in some public places. In the hospitality sector, such as restaurants, bars, caf s and other
entertainment establishments, the law should grant private business owners the flexibility to permit, restrict or prohibit smoking. Business owners can take into account their desire to cater to their customers  preferences. In the workplace,
designated smoking rooms can provide places for adults to smoke. Finally, we oppose legislation that would prohibit smoking outdoors (beyond outdoor places and facilities for children) and in private places such as homes, apartments and cars.
                        Reduced Cigarette Ignition Propensity Legislation:  Reduced ignition propensity standards have been adopted in several of our markets, for instance
in Australia, Canada and the EU, and are being considered in several other markets. The European Standards Organization s cigarette fire-safety standard became effective on November 17, 2011, for all cigarettes sold in the EU. Reduced
ignition propensity standards, which will increase production costs, should be the same as those in New York and other jurisdictions to ensure that they are uniform and technically feasible and apply equally to all manufacturers. However, we believe
that the experience from countries that have mandated reduced ignition propensity requirements for several years   namely the U.S. and Canada   should be thoroughly examined to evaluate the effectiveness of such requirements in terms of
reducing the risk of cigarette-ignited fires before additional countries consider introducing such standards.                       Illicit Trade:  On a global basis, illicit trade may account for as much as
10% of global cigarette consumption. We estimate that in the European Union alone illicit trade accounted for about 64 billion cigarettes, or approximately 10% of consumption, in 2010. Regulatory measures and related governmental actions to prevent
the illicit manufacture and trade of tobacco products are being considered by a number of jurisdictions. Article 15 of the FCTC requires Parties to the treaty to take steps to eliminate all forms of illicit trade, including counterfeiting, and
states that national, regional and global agreements on this issue are  essential components of tobacco control.  The CoP established an Intergovernmental Negotiating Body ( INB ) to negotiate a protocol on the illicit trade in
tobacco products pursuant to Article 15 of the FCTC. The draft protocol includes the following main topics:       

licensing schemes for participants in the tobacco business;      

know your customer  requirements;          

international requirements for the tracking and tracing of tobacco products and tobacco manufacturing equipment;      

the implementation of laws governing record-keeping;          

the regulation of Internet sales and duty free sales of tobacco products, including potential bans;      

measures to implement effective controls on the manufacturing of, and trade in, tobacco products in free zones; and      

enforcement mechanisms, including the criminalization of participation in illicit trade in various forms and measures to strengthen the abilities of
law enforcement agencies to fight illicit trade.         The fifth negotiation session of the INB will take place
from March 29 to April 4, 2012.      We support strict regulations and enforcement measures to prevent all forms of
illicit trade in tobacco products. We agree that manufacturers should implement state-of-the-art monitoring systems of their sales and distribution practices, and we agree that where appropriately confirmed, manufacturers should stop supplying
vendors who are shown to be knowingly engaged in illicit trade. We are also working with a number of governments around the world on specific agreements and memoranda of understanding to address the illegal trade in cigarettes. However, we disagree
with some provisions considered in the draft protocol, including the proposed ban of duty free sales, a ban of domestic Internet sales and measures that would impose payments on tobacco product manufacturers in an amount of lost taxes and duties
from seized contraband tobacco products regardless of any fault on the manufacturers  part.      Governments agree that
illicit trade is an extremely serious issue. It creates a cheap and unregulated source of tobacco, thus undermining efforts to reduce smoking, especially among youth, damages legitimate businesses, stimulates organized crime, and results in massive
amounts of lost tax revenue. We therefore believe that in addition to taking direct measures against illicit trade, as outlined above, governments when assessing proposed regulation, such as display bans, plain packaging, and ingredients bans, or
tax increases, should always carefully consider the potential implications of such regulation on illicit trade.                       Cooperation Agreements to Combat Illicit Trade of Cigarettes:  In 2004, we
entered into an agreement with the European Commission (acting on behalf of the European Community) that provides for broad cooperation with European law enforcement agencies on anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit efforts. All 27 Member States of
the EU have   
         29   

signed the agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to make financial contributions in the form of 13 payments over 12 years. Commencing in July 2007, we began making payments of
approximately $75 million a year over the final 10 years of the agreement, each of which is to be adjusted based on certain variables, including our market share in the EU in the year preceding payment. We record these payments as an expense in cost
of sales when product is shipped. We are also required to pay the excise taxes, VAT and customs duties on qualifying product seizures of up to 90 million cigarettes and are subject to payments of five times the applicable taxes and duties if
product seizures exceed 90 million cigarettes in a given year. To date, our annual payments related to product seizures have been immaterial.      In 2009, our subsidiaries Philip Morris Colombia and Coltabaco entered into an Investment and Cooperation Agreement with the Republic of Colombia, together with the Departments of Colombia and the Capital
District of Bogot , to promote investment and cooperation with respect to the Colombian tobacco market and to fight counterfeit and contraband tobacco products. The agreement provides $200 million in funding to the Colombian governments over
a 20-year period to address issues of mutual interest, such as combating the illegal cigarette trade, including the threat of counterfeit tobacco products, and increasing the quality and quantity of locally grown tobacco.   
                   Labor
 Conditions for Tobacco Workers:  In July 2010, Human Rights Watch published a report raising issues related to labor conditions for tobacco workers in Kazakhstan, particularly migrant workers. We have undertaken both an internal and third-party
review of our labor practices and policies in Kazakhstan and subsequently globally. In reviewing our policies and practices, we have sought the advice of local and international non-profit organizations with expertise in the area of fair labor
practices. We are in the process of implementing a comprehensive Agricultural Labor Practices Code, which strengthens and expands our existing practices and policies. This includes setting additional principles and standards for working conditions
on tobacco farms, tailored training programs, and regular external assessments to monitor the progress we, our suppliers and farmers make.   
          
     Other Legislation, Regulation or Governmental Action:  In Argentina, the National Commission for the Defense of Competition issued a resolution in May 2010, in which it found that our affiliate s establishment, in
1997, of a system of exclusive zonified distributors ( EZD s) in Buenos Aires city and region was anticompetitive, despite having issued two prior decisions (in 1997 and 2000) in which it had found the establishment of the EZD system was
not anticompetitive. The resolution is not a final decision, and our Argentinean affiliate opposed the resolution and submitted additional evidence.      In June 2011 in Brazil, the Secretariat of Economic Defense recommended to the Administrative Council for Economic Defense ( CADE ) that it find that the merchandising arrangements of our
affiliate and those of a competitor violated the Brazilian Competition Act and that it impose fines in unspecified amounts against each company. The matter awaits the decision of CADE.   
  It is not possible to predict what, if any, additional legislation, regulation or other governmental action will be enacted or
implemented relating to the manufacturing, advertising, sale or use of cigarettes, or the tobacco industry generally. It is possible, however, that legislation, regulation or other governmental action could be enacted or implemented that might
materially affect our business, volume, results of operations and cash flows.       Governmental Investigations    
  From time to time, we are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. As part of an investigation by the Department of Special
Investigations ( DSI ) of the government of Thailand into alleged under-declaration of import prices by Thai cigarette importers, our subsidiary, Philip Morris (Thailand) Limited, Thailand Branch ( PM Thailand ), was informed of
DSI s proposal to bring charges against it for alleged underpayment of customs duties and excise taxes of approximately $2 billion covering the period from July 28, 2003, to February 20, 2007. In September 2009, the DSI submitted the
case file to the Public Prosecutor for review. Additionally, the DSI commenced an informal inquiry alleging underpayment by PM Thailand of customs duties and excise taxes of approximately $1.8 billion, covering the period 2000   2003. We have
been cooperating with the Thai authorities and believe that PM Thailand s declared import prices are in compliance with the Customs Valuation Agreement of the World Trade Organization ( WTO ) and Thai law. PM Thailand also contends
that it reached an agreement with the Thai Customs Department in 2003 regarding valuation methodologies. We have provided written submissions and supporting evidence in connection with both investigations. The Public Prosecutor s office has
issued a non-prosecution order in the 2003   2007 investigation. In August 2011, the Director-General of DSI publicly announced that he disagreed with the non-prosecution order. The matter has now been referred to the Attorney General for
determination. If the Attorney General agrees with the Public Prosecutor s non-prosecution order, the 2003   2007 investigation will end. If the Attorney General agrees with the Director General of DSI, the matter will be submitted to the
Criminal Court.      Additionally, in November 2010, a WTO panel issued its decision in a dispute that began in August 2006
between the Philippines and Thailand concerning a series of Thai customs and tax measures affecting cigarettes imported by PM Thailand into Thailand from the Philippines. The WTO panel decided that Thailand had no basis to find that PM
Thailand s declared customs values were too low. The panel found that Thailand was unable to show that the customs values and taxes paid on the cigarette imports should have been higher, as alleged in 2009 by the DSI. While the WTO ruling does
not resolve the above referenced investigation, it should assist the Thai authorities  review of the matter. Further, the WTO ruling creates obligations for Thailand to revise its laws, regulations, or practices affecting the customs valuation
and tax treatment of future cigarette imports. Following Thailand s limited appeal relating to certain aspects but not the customs valuation part of the WTO ruling in June 2011, the WTO Appellate Body upheld the panel s original finding,
effectively dismissing Thailand s appeal. The WTO panel and Appellate   
         30   

Body reports have been adopted by the WTO Dispute Settlement Body ( DSB ). In September 2011, Thailand and the Philippines signed an agreement in which Thailand agreed to implement
VAT-related measures to comply with the DSB s recommendations and rulings by October 15, 2012, and to implement measures to comply with the rest of the DSB s recommendations and rulings by May 15, 2012.   
   Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements       In June 2011, we completed the acquisition of a cigarette business in Jordan, consisting primarily of cigarette manufacturing assets and inventories, for $42 million. In January 2011, we acquired a cigar
business, consisting primarily of trademarks in the Australian and New Zealand markets, for $20 million. The effects of these and other smaller acquisitions in 2011 were not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.      Effective January 1, 2011, we established a new business structure with Vietnam National Tobacco Corporation
( Vinataba ) in Vietnam. Under the terms of the agreement, we have further developed our existing joint venture with Vinataba through the licensing of  Marlboro  and the establishment of a PMI-controlled branch for the business
building of our brands.      On February 25, 2010, our affiliate, Philip Morris Philippines Manufacturing Inc.
( PMPMI ), and Fortune Tobacco Corporation ( FTC ) combined their respective business activities by transferring selected assets and liabilities of PMPMI and FTC to a new company called PMFTC Inc. ( PMFTC ). PMPMI and
FTC hold equal economic interests in PMFTC, while we manage the day-to-day operations of PMFTC and have a majority of its Board of Directors. Consequently, we account for the contributed assets and liabilities of FTC as a business combination. The
establishment of PMFTC permits both parties to benefit from their respective, complementary brand portfolios, as well as cost synergies from the resulting integration of manufacturing, distribution and procurement, and the further development and
advancement of tobacco growing in the Philippines.      In June 2010, we announced that our affiliate, Philip Morris Brasil
Industria e Comercio Ltda. ( PMB ), will begin directly sourcing tobacco leaf from approximately 17,000 tobacco farmers in Southern Brazil. This initiative enhances PMI s direct involvement in the supply chain and is expected to
provide approximately 10% of PMI s global leaf requirements. The vertically integrated structure was made possible following separate agreements with two leaf suppliers in Brazil, Alliance One Brasil Exportadora de Tabacos Ltda.
( AOB ) and Universal Leaf Tabacos Ltda. ( ULT ). These agreements resulted in AOB assigning approximately 9,000 contracts with tobacco farmers to PMB and ULT assigning approximately 8,000 contracts with tobacco farmers to PMB.
As a result, PMB offered employment to more than 200 employees, most of them agronomy specialists, and acquired related assets in Southern Brazil. The purchase price for the net assets and the contractual relationships was $83 million, which was
paid in 2010.      In September 2009, we acquired Swedish Match South Africa (Proprietary) Limited for ZAR 1.93 billion
(approximately $256 million based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of the acquisition), including acquired cash.      In
February 2009, we purchased the  Petter es  tobacco business for $209 million. Assets purchased consisted primarily of definite-lived trademarks of other tobacco products primarily sold in Norway and Sweden. In February 2009, we also
entered into an agreement with Swedish Match AB ( SWMA ) to establish an exclusive joint venture to commercialize Swedish style snus and other smoke-free tobacco products worldwide, outside of Scandinavia and the United States. We and SWMA
licensed an agreed list of trademarks and intellectual property exclusively to the joint venture. The joint venture started operations on April 1, 2009.      See Note 6.  Acquisitions and Other Business   Arrangements  to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.       Trade Policy       It is our policy to comply with applicable laws of the United States and the
laws of the countries in which we do business that prohibit trade with certain countries, organizations or individuals. We do not sell products or have a current intent to sell products in Cuba or North Korea. Certain of our subsidiaries have
established commercial arrangements involving Myanmar and the Republic of the Sudan, in each case in compliance with our trade policy and applicable U.S. law. Our contractual arrangements and licenses from the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control
to export cigarettes to Iran have expired without any sales having been made pursuant to those arrangements, and we have applied for a new license.      Following the imposition of economic sanctions in early 2011 against the former government of Libya and certain designated Libyan persons and entities by the U.S., other national governments, the EU and
the U.N., we suspended all arrangements with the Libyan Tobacco Company related to the production and sale of our products. Following the relaxation of these economic sanctions in September 2011, we are in the process of resuming arrangements to
supply the Libyan market.              Sales to the domestic market in Syria were suspended following the
imposition in August 2011 of economic sanctions by the U.S. government against the government of Syria. Prior to that time, a subsidiary sold products to a customer for export to Syria for domestic market sales, and the state tobacco monopoly, which
is the only entity permitted to import tobacco products, purchased products from that customer for resale in the domestic market. Such sales were made in compliance with exemptions under applicable U.S. laws and regulations and were quantitatively
not material, amounting to well below 0.5% of our consolidated annual volume and operating companies income in each of the past three years. Duty free sales to Syria were suspended when a Managing Director and shareholder of the sole Syrian duty
free customer of our subsidiary s distributor was placed on the Office of Foreign Assets Control s Specially Designated Nationals ( SDN ) list in February 2008. The distributor s customer itself was placed on the SDN list in
July 2008.      A subsidiary sells products to a duty free customer that resells those products to its respective customers, some
of   
         31   

which have duty free operations in Myanmar. Another subsidiary sells products to distributors that in turn sell those products to duty free customers that supply U.N. peacekeeping forces around
the world, including those in the Republic of the Sudan. All such sales are in compliance with exemptions under applicable U.S. laws and regulations and are de minimis in volume and value. We have no employees, operations or assets in Myanmar or the
Republic of the Sudan.      We do not believe that exempt or licensed sales of our products, which are agricultural products under
U.S. law and are not technological or strategic in nature, for ultimate resale in Myanmar or the Republic of the Sudan in compliance with U.S. laws, present a material risk to our stockholders, our reputation or the value of our shares. To our
knowledge, neither the governments of Myanmar or the Republic of the Sudan, nor entities controlled by those governments, receive cash or act as intermediaries in connection with these transactions.   
  Certain states have enacted legislation permitting state pension funds to divest or abstain from future investment in stocks of companies
that do business with countries that are sanctioned by the U.S. We do not believe such legislation has had a material effect on the price of our shares.       2011 compared with 2010       The following discussion compares operating results within each of
our reportable segments for 2011 with 2010.                        European Union:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $1.7 billion (6.1%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues
increased $401 million (4.6%) to $9.2 billion. This increase was due to:       

favorable currency ($440 million) and          

price increases ($298 million), partially offset by          

unfavorable volume/mix ($337 million).         Operating companies income increased $249 million (5.8%). This increase was due primarily to:       

favorable currency ($277 million), and          

lower marketing, administration and research costs ($48 million), partially offset by      

unfavorable volume/mix ($291 million),          

higher manufacturing costs ($64 million) and          

higher pre-tax charges for asset impairment and exit costs ($18 million, representing the restructuring of manufacturing and R D facilities).
        The total cigarette market in the European Union declined by 4.3%, due primarily to the impact of a lower
total market: in Greece, mainly reflecting the unfavorable impact of excise tax driven price increases in 2010 and 2011, that drove the retail price of  Marlboro  up by 25% between the first quarter of each year, and the continuing adverse
economic environment; in Italy, due primarily to excise tax driven price increases in 2010 and July 2011, and the VAT-driven price increase of September 2011; in Spain, following the cumulative unfavorable impact of price increases in 2010 and 2011,
the implementation of stricter indoor public smoking bans in January 2011, unfavorable trade inventory movements, and continuing adverse economic conditions; in Portugal, reflecting both excise tax and VAT-driven price increases in 2010 and January
2011, and the continuing adverse economic environment; the growth of the OTP segment, primarily in Belgium, France, Germany and Italy; and an increase in illicit trade, notably in Greece and Spain. Excluding Spain, which represented almost half of
the total regional market decline, we estimate that the total cigarette market in the European Union declined by 2.5%. Our cigarette shipment volume in the European Union declined by 5.1%, due primarily to the aforementioned reasons. Our market
share in the European Union was down by 0.3 share points to 38.2% as gains, notably in Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary and the Netherlands, were more than offset by declines, mainly in the Czech Republic, Italy, Poland, Portugal and Spain.
     Shipment volume of  Marlboro  decreased by 5.1%, mainly due to lower total markets, particularly in Greece and Spain,
and to lower share, primarily in Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain, partially offset by higher share in Belgium and Hungary.  Marlboro s  market share was down by 0.2 share points to 17.9%, reflecting a higher share mainly in Belgium, the
Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary and the Netherlands, which was more than offset by lower share in Germany, Italy and Spain.   
  Shipment volume of  L M  was up by 2.7%, driven by higher share in Germany, the Netherlands and Poland.  L M  s
market share was up by 0.2 share points to 6.5%, driven by gains in Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and Spain.      Shipment
volume of  Chesterfield  was up by 8.5%, and market share was up by 0.2 share points to 3.1%, driven primarily by higher share in France, Poland and Portugal.      Our shipment volume of OTP, in cigarette equivalent units, grew by 15.0%, mainly reflecting a higher total market and share in Belgium, France, Germany and Italy.   
  In the Czech Republic, the total cigarette market was essentially flat in 2011, at 21.1 billion units. Our shipments were down by 7.4%.
Market share was down by 3.5 share points to 44.3%, primarily reflecting continued share declines for local brands, such as  Petra  and  Sparta,  down by a combined 3.0 share points. This decline was partly offset by a higher share for
 Marlboro,  up by 0.4 share points to 7.2%, benefiting from the April 2011 launch of  Marlboro Core Flavor  and  Marlboro Gold Touch,  and a higher share for  Red   White,  up by 0.3 share points to 12.9%.   
  In France, the total cigarette market was down by 1.3% to 54.1 billion units. Our shipments were down by 1.7%. Our market share was up
slightly by 0.1 share point to 40.5%. While market share of  Marlboro  declined by 0.2 share points to 25.7%, it was more than offset by a higher share for the premium  Philip Morris  brand, up by 0.4 share points to 8.2%, as well as by a
higher share for  Chesterfield , up by 0.3 share points to 3.1%. Our share of the fine-cut market grew by 5.1 share points to 24.6% for the full year, driven by  Philip Morris  and the very successful February 2011 launch of
 Marlboro .   
         32   

In Germany, the total cigarette market grew by 0.7% to 84.5 billion units. Our shipments
were up by 1.8%, and market share grew by 0.4 share points to 35.9%. While share of  Marlboro  was down by 0.5 share points to 20.9%, share of  L M  was up by 1.1 share points to 10.4%.   
  In Italy, the total cigarette market was down by 1.8% to 85.5 billion units, reflecting the unfavorable impact of excise tax driven price
increases in 2010, price increases in July 2011, and a VAT-driven price increase of  0.20 per pack in September 2011. Our shipments were down by 3.6%, and market share declined by 0.8 share points to 53.1%.  Marlboro  s 
 market share was down by 0.3 share points to 22.5%.      In Poland, the total cigarette market was down by 3.1% to 55.6
billion units, reflecting the unfavorable impact of excise tax driven price increases in the fourth quarter of 2010 and second quarter of 2011, as well as the introduction of an indoor public smoking ban in November of 2010. Our shipments were down
by 8.3%. Our market share was down by 2.0 share points to 35.3%, mainly due to lower share of low-price  Red   White,  down by 2.6 share points to 5.1%, partially offset by  L M,  up by 1.1 share points to 15.9%, supported by
the launch of  L M Forward  in April 2011, and  Chesterfield,  up by 0.6 share points to 1.4%. Market share of  Marlboro  was essentially flat at 10.4%.      In Spain, the total cigarette market was down by 16.6% to 60.6 billion units, largely due to the continuing adverse economic environment and the introduction of a total indoor public smoking ban in
January 2011. Our shipments were down by 18.4%, and our market share was down by 0.9 share points to 30.8%. Share of  Marlboro  of 14.6% was down by 0.7 share points, reflecting the additional impact of crossing the  4.00 per pack
retail price point during the year.                   Eastern Europe, Middle East   Africa:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $1.5 billion (9.6%). Excluding
excise taxes, net revenues increased $472 million (6.4%) to $7.9 billion. This increase was due to:       

favorable currency ($49 million) and          

the impact of acquisitions ($25 million).         Operating companies income increased $77 million (2.4%). This increase was due primarily to:       

favorable volume/mix ($107 million), partially offset by      

higher manufacturing costs ($109 million),          

unfavorable currency ($97 million),          

higher marketing, administration and research costs ($69 million, including costs related to marketing and business infrastructure investment in
Russia) and          
 
  Our cigarette shipment volume in EEMA increased by 0.3%, predominantly due to: the Middle East, primarily Saudi Arabia, mainly reflecting
a higher total market; North Africa, primarily Algeria, driven by a higher total market and share growth; and Turkey, reflecting share growth. This increase was partly offset by a decline in Russia and Ukraine, largely due to lower total markets,
and Libya, reflecting the imposition of economic sanctions during most of the year.      In Russia, the total cigarette market
declined by approximately 2.0% to an estimated 375 billion units. Our shipment volume decreased by 2.3%. While shipment volume of our premium portfolio was down by 2.7%, primarily due to a decline in  Marlboro  of 12.1%, shipment volume of
 Parliament  was up by 4.2%. In the mid-price segment, shipment volume was down by 3.3%, mainly due to  Chesterfield,  down by 0.7%, and  L M,  down by 4.3%. In the low-price segment, shipment volume of  Bond Street  was up
by 3.3%. Our market share of 25.8%, as measured by A.C. Nielsen, was up by 0.2 share points. Market share for  Parliament,  in the premium segment, was up slightly by 0.1 share point;  Marlboro,  in the premium segment, was down by 0.2
share points;  L M  in the mid-price segment was down by 0.4 share points;  Chesterfield  in the mid-price segment was up slightly by 0.1 share point; and  Bond Street  in the low-price segment was up by 0.4 share points.
     In Turkey, the total cigarette market was down by 2.3% to 91.2 billion units, due to the unfavorable impact of excise tax
driven price increases in the fourth quarter of 2011. Our shipment volume increased by 7.1%. Our market share, as measured by A.C. Nielsen, grew by 2.7 share points to 44.8%, driven by  Parliament, Muratti  and  L M,  up by 0.9, 0.6
and 3.1 share points, respectively, partly offset by declines in  Lark  and  Bond Street,  down by 1.0 and 0.6 share points, respectively. Market share of  Marlboro  was down by 0.2 share points to 9.3%.   
          In Ukraine, the total cigarette market declined by 8.1% to 85.6 billion units, reflecting the unfavorable
impact of excise tax driven price increases in 2010 and 2011. Our shipment volume decreased by 10.7%. Our market share, as measured by A.C. Nielsen, was down by 2.4 share points to 32.5%, due to declines in our medium and low-price segments. Share
for premium  Parliament  was up by 0.3 share points to 2.7%. Share of  Marlboro  was up by 0.2 share points to 5.7%.                   Asia:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased
$4.4 billion (28.6%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $2.8 billion (34.9%) to $10.7 billion. This increase was due to:       

favorable volume/mix ($977 million, including increased shipments to Japan in response to in-market shortages of competitors  products),

favorable currency ($690 million) and          

the impact of acquisitions ($112 million, primarily the 2010 business combination in the Philippines).      
         33   

Operating companies income increased $1.8 billion (58.6%). This increase was due primarily
to:       

favorable currency ($400 million) and          

the impact of acquisitions ($28 million), partially offset by      

higher marketing, administration and research costs ($219 million, partially related to increased marketing investment in Japan) and

higher manufacturing costs ($183 million, partially related to the air freight of product to Japan).      
  Our cigarette shipment volume increased by 11.0%, primarily due to growth in Indonesia, Japan, Korea and the Philippines. The growth was
partly offset by a decline in Pakistan of 14.6%, due to the continued growth of illicit products and market share erosion. Shipment volume of  Marlboro  was up by 8.8%, driven by growth in Indonesia, Japan, Korea and Vietnam, partly offset by a
decline in the Philippines, reflecting the unfavorable impact of an excise tax driven price increase in January 2011.      In
Indonesia, the total cigarette market was up by 8.8% to 294.0 billion units, driven by growth in the low-price and the machine-made LTLN (low  tar,  low nicotine) segments. Our shipment volume increased by 16.6%, with all brand families
recording growth. Market share was up by 2.1 share points to 31.2%, driven by growth from premium  Sampoerna A,  mid-price  U Mild  and low-price  Vegas Mild  and  Trend Mild.  Although  Marlboro s  market share was
down slightly by 0.1 share point to 4.3%, shipments grew by 5.2% and share of the  white  cigarettes segment increased by 4.0 share points to 65.5%.      In Japan, the total cigarette market decreased by 10.8% to 195.3 billion units, reflecting the unfavorable impact of the October 1, 2010, excise tax driven price increases and the underlying market
decline. Our shipment volume was up by 24.1%, driven by increased demand following in-market shortages of competitors  products during the year. Our market share of 30.7% was up by 6.3 share points, reflecting growth of  Marlboro, Lark,
 the  Philip Morris  brand and  Virginia S.  up by 2.1, 3.1, 0.5 and 0.5 share points, to 13.1%, 9.7%, 2.8% and 2.4%, respectively. We exited 2011 with a fourth quarter share of 28.2%, up nearly four share points compared to a full year
market share of 24.4% in 2010.      In Korea, the total cigarette market declined by 0.6% to 90.0 billion units. Our shipment
volume increased by 16.7%, driven by market share increases. Our market share of 19.8% was up by 2.9 share points, driven by  Marlboro  and  Parliament,  up by 1.7 and 1.1 share points to 8.6% and 6.7%, respectively.   
  In the Philippines, the total cigarette market declined by 4.0% to 97.4 billion units, mainly reflecting the impact of excise tax driven
price increases in January 2011. Our shipment volume was up by 7.5%. Adjusted for the business combination of PMFTC, established on February 25, 2010, shipment volume declined by 4.1%. Our market share reached 94.0%, up by 1.2 share points.

Latin America   Canada:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $1.0 billion (12.2%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $246 million (8.1%) to $3.3 billion.
This increase was due to:       

favorable currency ($70 million), partially offset by      

unfavorable volume/mix ($158 million).         Operating companies income increased $35 million (3.7%). This increase was due primarily to:       

price increases ($334 million), partially offset by          

unfavorable volume/mix ($159 million),          

higher manufacturing costs ($72 million),          

higher marketing, administration and research costs ($42 million) and      

the 2011 pre-tax charges for asset impairment and exit costs ($24 million, primarily related to the closure of manufacturing facilities in Uruguay and
Venezuela).         Our cigarette shipment volume decreased by 4.8%, mainly due to Mexico, partly offset by an
increase in Argentina. Shipment volume of  Marlboro  decreased by 5.8%, principally due to Mexico, partially offset by growth in Argentina, Brazil and Colombia.      In Argentina, the total cigarette market grew by 2.6% to 43.8 billion units, reflecting growth in the economy. Our cigarette shipment volume increased by 3.8%. Our market share was up by 0.8 share points
to 74.4%, reflecting growth of  Marlboro,  up by 0.8 share points to 24.1%, and of the mid-price  Philip Morris  brand, up by 0.4 share points to 38.0%. Share of low-price  Next  was down by 0.2 share points to 3.6%.   
  In Canada, the total tax-paid cigarette market was down by 0.8% to 32.1 billion units, reflecting a flattening of the return of illicit
trade to the legitimate market. Our cigarette shipment volume increased by 1.3%. Our market share grew by 0.8 share points to 34.1%, with premium brand  Belmont  up by 0.1 share point to 1.8% and low-price brand  Next  up by 2.5 share
points to 6.9%, partly offset by mid-price  Number 7  and  Canadian Classics,  and low-price  Accord,  down by 0.4, 0.4 and 0.7 share points, to 4.1%, 8.7% and 3.6%, respectively.   
  In Mexico, the total cigarette market was down by 21.1% to 34.3 billion units, primarily due to the significant January 1, 2011,
excise tax increase, which drove a 26.7% increase in the retail price of  Marlboro,  and also fueled a surge in the availability of illicit products. Although our cigarette shipment volume decreased by 18.6%, market share grew by 2.2 share
points to 72.3%, led by  Marlboro,  up by 3.2 share points to 52.3%, and  Benson   Hedges,  up by 0.6 share points to 6.1%. Market share of low-price  Delicados  declined by 1.0 share point to 10.9%.   
         34   

2010 compared with 2009       The following discussion compares operating results within each of our reportable segments for 2010 with 2009.                   European Union:  Net
revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, decreased $500 million (1.8%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues decreased $230 million (2.5%) to $8.8 billion. This decrease was due primarily to:   

unfavorable currency ($172 million), partially offset by      
   
    Operating companies income decreased $195 million (4.3%). This decrease was due primarily to:       

unfavorable currency ($191 million) and          

higher marketing, administration and research costs ($66 million), partially offset by      
   
    The total cigarette market in the European Union declined by 4.5%, mainly reflecting a lower total market in Greece, Poland and Spain, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of tax-driven price increases
and the impact of continued adverse economic conditions, particularly in Greece and Spain. Our cigarette shipment volume in the European Union declined by 5.2%, primarily reflecting the impact of the lower total market. Our market share in the
European Union was down by 0.3 share points to 38.5%, as gains in Belgium, Hungary, the Netherlands and Poland were more than offset by share declines in the Czech Republic, Germany, Greece and Portugal.   
  Shipment volume of  Marlboro  decreased by 5.8%, mainly due to the lower total market, as well as lower share in Germany and Greece.
 Marlboro  s   share in the European Union was down by 0.3 share points to 18.1%, reflecting a lower share in Austria, France, Germany and Greece, partially offset by a higher share in Italy, the Netherlands and Poland.   
   L M  volume was up by 2.9%, and market share grew by 0.3 share points to 6.3% in the European Union, primarily driven by share
gains in the Czech Republic, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Greece, the Netherlands, the Slovak Republic, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.      In the Czech Republic, the total cigarette market decreased 2.7%, reflecting the impact of tax-driven price increases implemented in April 2010, and our shipments were down 7.9%. Market share decreased by
2.7 share points to 47.8%, primarily due to share declines for lower-margin local brands, partially offset by a higher share for  Marlboro,  up by 0.1 share points to 6.8%, and for  L M,  up by 0.5 share points to 7.5%.   
  In France, the total cigarette market was down 0.3%, and our shipments were down by 0.1%. Market share decreased by 0.2 share points to
40.4%, while share for  Marlboro  was down by 0.6 share points to 25.9%, more than offset by a higher share for the  Philip Morris  brand, up by 0.8 share points to 7.8%.   
  In Germany, the total cigarette market was down by 1.9%, reflecting the impact of 2009 price increases. Our shipments were down by 4.7%,
due primarily to the lower total market and a lower share of 35.5%, down by 1.0 share point. While  L M  gained 1.0 share point to reach 9.3%,  Marlboro  s   share decreased 1.6 share points to 21.4%, reflecting the continued
impact of price sensitivity among adult smokers.      In Italy, the total cigarette market was down by 2.4%, primarily reflecting
the impact of the December 2009 and September 2010 price increases. Our shipments were down by 3.1%, largely due to a lower total market. Although market share declined by 0.2 share points to 53.9%,  Marlboro  s   share increased by
0.2 share points to 22.8%, partially due to the June 2010 launch of  Marlboro Core Flavor.       In Poland, the total
cigarette market was down by 6.2%, reflecting the impact of tax-driven price increases in the first quarter of 2010 as well as price increases in the fourth quarter of 2010 in anticipation of excise and VAT increases in January 2011. Our shipments
were down by 3.3%. Market share was up by 1.2 share points to 37.3%, primarily reflecting higher  Marlboro  share, up by 1.0 share point to 10.4%, assisted by the launch of  Marlboro Frost  in the first quarter of 2010.   
  In Spain, the total cigarette market was down by 11.0%, due largely to the continuing adverse economic environment and the impact of the
price increase in January 2010, the June 2010 VAT-driven price increase and the December 2010 excise tax driven price increase. Our shipments were down by 11.5%. Our market share remained firm, down by 0.2 share points to 31.7%, mainly reflecting a
stable  Marlboro  share at 15.3% and a growing  L M  share, up by 0.4 share points to 6.3%, offset by a decline in the share of  Chesterfield,  down by 0.7 share points to 8.7%.   
          
     Eastern Europe, Middle East   Africa:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $2.1 billion (14.9%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $614 million (9.0%) to
$7.4 billion. This increase was due to:       

the impact of acquisitions ($80 million) and          

favorable currency ($76 million), partially offset by      
   
    Operating companies income increased $489 million (18.4%). This increase was due to:       

favorable currency ($107 million) and          

the impact of acquisitions ($28 million), partially offset by      

higher manufacturing costs ($77 million) and          

higher marketing, administration and research costs ($55 million).      
         35   

Our cigarette shipment volume decreased by 3.2%, principally due to Romania, mainly driven
by a lower total market and lower market share following excise tax increases in 2009 and 2010; Turkey, due to the significant tax-driven price increase in January 2010; and Ukraine, resulting from significant tax-driven price increases in 2009 and
2010, as well as lower share driven by low-price competition. These declines were partially offset by growth in Russia and North Africa, notably Algeria. Shipment volume of  Marlboro  decreased by 1.5%, with declines in Romania, Russia and
Turkey, partially offset by growth in North Africa.      In Russia, our shipment volume increased by 2.0%. Shipment volume of our
premium portfolio was down by 5.8%, primarily due to a decline in  Marlboro  of 10.9%. Shipment volume of above-premium  Parliament  was up by 0.3%. In the mid-price segment, shipment volume was down 20.6% and up by 6.4% for  L M
 and  Chesterfield,  respectively. In the low-price segment, shipment volumes of  Bond Street, Next  and  Optima  were up by 21.2%, 8.6%, and 3.1%, respectively. Our market share of 25.6%, as measured by A.C. Nielsen, was
essentially flat. Market share for  Parliament,  in the above-premium segment, was stable;  Marlboro,  in the premium segment, was down by 0.2 share points;  L M  in the mid-price segment was down by 0.7 share points;
 Chesterfield  in the mid-price segment was up by 0.2 share points; and  Bond Street  in the low-price segment was up by 1.2 share points.      In Turkey, the total cigarette market declined by an estimated 13.2%, primarily reflecting the impact of the steep January 2010 excise tax increase. Our shipment volume declined by 12.9%. Our market
share, as measured by A.C. Nielsen, declined by 0.9 share points to 42.1%, due to  Parliament,  down by 1.2 share points;  Marlboro,  down by 1.4 share points;  L M,  down by 0.6 share points, and  Bond Street,  down by 0.8
share points, partially offset by  Lark  in the low-price segment, up by 2.9 share points.      In Ukraine, the total
cigarette market declined by 13.6%. Our shipment volume declined 21.1%, reflecting the impact of steep excise tax driven price increases in 2009 and 2010, as well as lower share, driven by low-price competition. Our market share, as measured by A.C.
Nielsen, was down by 1.1 share points to 34.9%, due primarily to lower share for  L M  and brands in the low-price segment.                   Asia:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased
$2.8 billion (22.7%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $1.4 billion (21.6%) to $7.9 billion. This increase was due to:       

the impact from the business combination in the Philippines ($548 million) and      

price increases ($491 million), partially offset by          
    Operating companies income increased $613 million (25.2%). This increase was due to:       

favorable currency ($342 million) and          

the impact from the business combination in the Philippines ($104 million), partially offset by      

higher marketing, administration and research costs ($55 million),      

higher asset impairment and exit costs ($20 million, representing a contract termination charge in the Philippines) and      

higher manufacturing costs ($14 million).         Our cigarette shipment volume increased by 56.1 billion units or 24.8%, mainly due to an increase of 57.4 billion units from the new business combination in the Philippines, and growth in Korea and
Indonesia, partially offset by a decline in Japan of 12.3%, reflecting the significant impact of the October 1, 2010, tax increase. Shipment volume of  Marlboro  grew by 3.0%, reflecting growth in Korea and the Philippines, offset by the
aforementioned excise tax impact in Japan.      In Indonesia, the total cigarette market was up by 3.9%. Our shipment volume
increased by 3.7%, and market share was flat at 29.1%, despite growth from mid-price  U Mild,  reflecting price sensitivity as the premium price  Sampoerna A  and  Dji Sam Soe  transitioned through key retail price points.   
  In Japan, the total cigarette market decreased by 7.4%, reflecting the unfavorable impact of the significant October 1, 2010, excise
tax driven price increases. Our shipment volume was down 12.3%. Our market share of 24.4% was up by 0.4 share points.  Marlboro s  share increased to 11.0%, up by 0.5 share points, supported by the February and July 2010 national roll-out
of  Marlboro Black Gold  and  Marlboro Ice Blast.  Market shares of  Lark  and the  Philip Morris  brand were flat at 6.6% and 2.3%, respectively.      In Korea, the total cigarette market was down by 4.5%. Our shipment volume grew by 12.3%, and our market share reached 16.9%, up by 2.5 share points, driven by  Marlboro  and  Parliament,  up by
1.0 and 1.3 share points, respectively, and  Virginia Slims,  up by 0.3 share points.      On February 25, 2010, Philip
Morris Philippines Manufacturing Inc. combined with Fortune Tobacco Corporation to form a new company called PMFTC Inc. As a result of this business combination, our shipments in the Philippines were up by over 100% in 2010. Excluding the favorable
impact of this new business combination of 57.4 billion units, cigarette shipments of our brands in the Philippines increased by 10.7%, fueled by the growth of both  Marlboro  and the  Philip Morris  brand.   
       
        Latin America   Canada:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $1.2 billion (17.2%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $382 million
(14.3%) to $3.1 billion. This increase was due to:       

higher volume/mix ($28 million).      
         36   

Operating companies income increased $287 million (43.1%). This increase was due primarily
to:       

the 2009 charge related to the Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement ($135 million),      

favorable currency ($85 million) and          

higher volume/mix ($11 million), partially offset by          

higher manufacturing costs ($82 million) and          

higher marketing, administration and research costs ($34 million).      
  Our cigarette shipment volume increased by 1.5%, reflecting growth in Argentina, Canada and Mexico, partly offset by declines in Brazil
and Colombia. Shipment volume of  Marlboro  increased by 2.1%, mainly due to growth in Mexico.      In Argentina, our
cigarette shipment volume increased by 0.7% and market share increased by 1.4 share points to 73.6%, fueled by  Marlboro,  up by 0.4 share points to 23.3%, and the  Philip Morris  brand, up by 1.5 share points to 37.6%.   
  In Canada, the total tax-paid cigarette market was up by 9.5%, mainly reflecting stronger government enforcement measures to reduce
contraband sales since mid-2009. Although our cigarette shipment volume increased by 8.0%, market share decreased by 0.5 share points to 33.3%, with gains by premium price  Belmont,  up by 0.1 share points, and low-price brands  Next  and
 Quebec Classique  up by 3.4 share points and 1.0 share point, respectively, more than offset by mid-price  Number 7  and  Canadian Classics,  and low-price  Accord,  down by 1.2, 1.6 and 1.2 share points, respectively.
     In Mexico, the total cigarette market was up by 2.5%, driven by favorable trade inventory movements ahead of a steep excise
tax increase on January 1, 2011. Our cigarette shipment volume increased by 3.8%, and market share increased by 0.8 share points to 70.1%, led by  Marlboro,  up by 0.9 share points to 49.1%, and  Delicados,  up by 0.3 share points to
11.9%.       Financial Review    
           Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities:  Net cash provided by operating activities of $10.5
billion for the year ended December 31, 2011, increased $1.1 billion from the comparable 2010 period. The increase was due primarily to higher net earnings ($1.4 billion), partly offset by unfavorable movements in working capital ($421 million)
and higher contributions to pension plans ($102 million).      The unfavorable movements in working capital were due primarily to
the following:       

more cash used for inventories ($1.1 billion), driven by higher finished goods inventories (primarily due to stock movements related to tax-driven
price increases); and          

more cash used for accounts receivable ($374 million), primarily due to the timing of collections; partly offset by      

more cash provided by accrued liabilities and other current assets ($650 million), due primarily to the increase in excise tax liabilities associated
with inventory movements and the timing of excise and value-added tax (VAT) payments, partially offset by changes in the fair value of financial instruments;      

more cash provided by accounts payable ($271 million), primarily due to the timing of payables for leaf and direct materials; and

more cash provided by income taxes ($139 million), primarily due to higher income tax provisions and the timing of payments.
        On February 10, 2011, we announced a one-year, gross productivity and cost savings target for 2011 of
approximately $250 million to be achieved through product specification changes, improved manufacturing performance and various procurement-related initiatives. During 2011, we exceeded this target.   
  On February 9, 2012, we announced a one-year, gross productivity and cost savings target for 2012 of approximately $300 million to
be achieved mainly through manufacturing and procurement productivity improvements.      Net cash provided by operating activities
of $9.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010, increased $1.6 billion from the comparable 2009 period. The increase was due primarily to higher net earnings ($946 million, which includes a non-cash charge of $135 million in 2009 related
to the Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement), favorable movements in working capital ($703 million) and lower contributions to pension plans ($125 million).      The favorable movements in working capital were due primarily to the following:       

more cash provided by lower inventory levels ($411 million), primarily due to lower leaf tobacco and finished goods inventories, reflecting efforts to
optimize our supply chain;          

more cash provided by accounts receivable ($310 million), primarily due to the timing of collections; and      

more cash provided by income taxes ($87 million), largely due to the timing of payments; partially offset by      

less cash provided by accrued liabilities and other current assets ($149 million), due primarily to the changes in the fair value of financial
instruments and higher interest payments on debt, partially offset by the timing of excise tax payments.         The
favorable operating cash flows in 2010 helped us complete, two years ahead of schedule, our goal to generate an additional $750 million to $1 billion in cash through improvements in working capital over the period 2010   2012. Originally
communicated in November 2009, the target was achieved at the upper end of the range excluding currency, driven mainly by lowering net receivables, the favorable impact of improved forestalling regulations, and a reduction of inventory durations.
  
         37   

During 2010, we completed our three-year $1.5 billion productivity and cost savings program.
  
                   Net
 Cash Used in Investing Activities:  Net cash used in investing activities of $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011, increased $322 million from the comparable 2010 period, due primarily to higher capital expenditures ($184
million) and lower cash proceeds from the settlement of derivatives designated as net investment hedges ($43 million).      Net
cash used in investing activities of $710 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, decreased $388 million from the comparable 2009 period, due primarily to less cash spent to purchase businesses ($346 million), as well as higher cash
proceeds from the settlement of derivatives designated as net investment hedges ($35 million). As discussed in Note 6.  Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements,  our business combination in the Philippines was a non-cash transaction.
     In 2011, we acquired a cigar business, consisting primarily of trademarks in the Australian and New Zealand markets, for $20
million. In 2011, we also completed the acquisition of a cigarette business in Jordan, consisting primarily of cigarette manufacturing assets and inventories, for $42 million.      In 2010, we spent $83 million for the net assets and contractual relationships of our current leaf suppliers in Brazil. For further details, see Note 6.  Acquisitions and Other Business
Arrangements.       In 2009, we acquired Swedish Match South Africa (Proprietary) Limited, for ZAR 1.93 billion ($256 million
based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of the acquisition), including acquired cash of $36 million. In 2009, we also purchased the  Petter es  tobacco business for $209 million.   
  Our capital expenditures were $897 million in 2011, $713 million in 2010 and $715 million in 2009. The 2011 expenditures were primarily
for the modernization and consolidation of manufacturing facilities, and expansion of production capacity. We expect capital expenditures in 2012 of approximately $970 million, to be funded by operating cash flows.   
                   Net
 Cash Used in Financing Activities:  During 2011, net cash used in financing activities was $8.3 billion, compared with net cash used in financing activities of $8.6 billion during 2010 and $6.9 billion in 2009. During 2011, we used a total of
$12.8 billion to repurchase our common stock, pay dividends, and repay debt. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from our debt offerings and short-term borrowings in 2011 of $4.7 billion. During 2010, we used a total of $10.1 billion to
repurchase our common stock, pay dividends, and repay debt. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from our debt offerings and short-term borrowings in 2010 of $1.6 billion. During 2009, we used a total of $10.4 billion to repurchase our
common stock, pay dividends to our public stockholders and repay debt, partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of debt and short-term borrowings of $3.6 billion.      Dividends paid to public stockholders in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $4.8 billion, $4.4 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively.                         Debt
and Liquidity:       We define cash and cash equivalents as short-term, highly liquid investments, readily convertible to known amounts of cash
that mature within a maximum of three months and have an insignificant risk of change in value due to interest rate or credit risk changes. As a policy, we do not hold any investments in structured or equity-linked products. Our cash and cash
equivalents are predominantly held in short-term bank deposits with institutions having a long-term rating of A or better and a short-term rating of A-1/P-1.        Credit Ratings:   The cost and terms of our financing arrangements as well as our access to commercial paper markets may be affected by applicable credit ratings. At December 31, 2011,
our credit ratings and outlook by major credit rating agencies were as follows:       

Short-term   

Long-term   

Outlook   

Moody s   

P-1  

A2  

Stable  

Standard   Poor s   

A-1  

A  

Stable  

Fitch   

F1  

A  

Stable  

Credit Facilities:   In May 2011, we entered into an agreement with certain financial institutions to extend
the expiration date for our $2.5 billion revolving credit facility from September 30, 2013, to March 31, 2015.      On
October 25, 2011, we entered into a new multi-year revolving credit facility in the amount of $3.5 billion, which expires on October 25, 2016. This new revolving credit facility replaced our $2.7 billion multi-year credit facility, which
was to expire on December 4, 2012.      At December 31, 2011, our committed credit facilities and commercial paper
outstanding were as follows:       

Type       (in billions of dollars)    
      
   Committed     Credit   
  Facilities   

Commercial     Paper   

Multi-year revolving credit, expiring March 31, 2015   
      
   $   
   2.5   

Multi-year revolving credit, expiring October 25, 2016   

3.5   

Total facilities   
      
   $   
   6.0   

Commercial paper outstanding   

$   
   1.3   

At December 31, 2011, there were no borrowings under the committed credit facilities, and the entire
committed amounts were available for borrowing.      All principal banks participating in our committed credit facilities are
highly rated by the credit rating agencies. We continuously monitor the credit quality of our banking group, and at this time we are not aware of any potential non-performing credit provider.   
         38   

Each of these facilities requires us to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( consolidated EBITDA ) to consolidated interest expense of not less than 3.5 to 1.0 on a rolling four-quarter basis. At December 31, 2011, our ratio calculated in accordance with the
agreements was 15.9 to 1.0. These facilities do not include any credit rating triggers, material adverse change clauses or any provisions that could require us to post collateral. We expect to continue to meet our covenants. The terms
 consolidated EBITDA  and  consolidated interest expense,  both of which include certain adjustments, are defined in the facility agreements previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.   
  In addition to the committed credit facilities discussed above, certain of our subsidiaries maintain short-term credit arrangements to
meet their respective working capital needs. These credit arrangements, which amounted to approximately $1.9 billion at December 31, 2011, are for the sole use of our subsidiaries. Borrowings under these arrangements amounted to $247 million at
December 31, 2011, and $538 million at December 31, 2010.        Commercial Paper Program:   We have commercial paper programs
in place in the U.S. and in Europe. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, of commercial paper outstanding.      The existence of the commercial paper program and the committed credit facilities, coupled with our operating cash flows, will enable us to meet our liquidity requirements.   
    Debt:   Our total debt was $18.5 billion at December 31, 2011, and $16.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Fixed-rate debt constituted
approximately 90% of our total debt at December 31, 2011, and 87% of our total debt at December 31, 2010. The weighted-average all-in financing cost of our total debt was 4.4% in 2011, compared to 5.0% in 2010. See Note 16.  Fair Value
Measurements  to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our disclosures related to the fair value of debt. The debt that we can issue is subject to approval by our Board of Directors.   
  On February 28, 2011, we filed a new shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which we may
from time to time sell debt securities and/or warrants to purchase debt securities over a three-year period.      Our debt
offerings in 2011 were as follows:       
     
    As a result of the debt issuances shown in the table above, the weighted-average time to maturity of our long-term debt has increased from 7.0 years at the end of 2010 to 8.2 years at the end of 2011.
     The net proceeds from the sale of these securities were used to meet our working capital requirements, to repurchase our
common stock, to refinance debt and for general corporate purposes.      In March 2010, we issued $1.0 billion of 4.50% U.S.
dollar notes due March 2020 under our previous shelf registration statement.      In March 2010, we renewed our Euro Medium Term
Note Program under which we were able to issue unsecured notes from time to time. This program expired in March 2011, and we do not presently intend to renew the program.                       Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations:  We have no off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities, other than guarantees and contractual obligations that are discussed below.   
    Guarantees:   See Note 21.  Contingencies  to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our third-party guarantees. At
December 31, 2011, we were also contingently liable for $0.8 billion of guarantees of our own performance, which were primarily related to excise taxes on the shipment of our products. There is no liability in the consolidated financial
statements associated with these guarantees.   
         39   

Aggregate Contractual Obligations:   The following table summarizes our contractual obligations
at December 31, 2011:       

(1)  
  Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our long-term debt. Amounts include capital lease obligations, primarily associated with vending machines in Japan.

(2)  
  Amounts represent the estimated future payments due under the terms of the settlement agreement. See Note 19.  RBH Legal Settlement , to our consolidated financial
statements for more details regarding this settlement.     

(3)  
  Amounts represent the expected cash payments under the terms of the Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement. See Note 18.  Colombian Investment and Cooperation
Agreement  to our consolidated financial statements for more details regarding this agreement.     

(4)  
  Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our interest expense on our long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt. Interest on our fixed-rate
debt is presented using the stated interest rate. Interest on our variable rate debt is estimated using the rate in effect at December 31, 2011. Amounts exclude the amortization of debt discounts, the amortization of loan fees and fees for
lines of credit that would be included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of earnings.     

(5)  
  Amounts represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases.     

(6)  
  Purchase obligations for inventory and production costs (such as raw materials, indirect materials and supplies, packaging, co-manufacturing arrangements, storage and
distribution) are commitments for projected needs to be utilized in the normal course of business. Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, advertising, capital expenditures, information technology and professional services.
Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure and approximate timing of the transaction. Most arrangements are cancelable
without a significant penalty and with short notice (usually 30 days). Any amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable and accrued liabilities are excluded from the table above.     

(7)  
  Other long-term liabilities consist primarily of postretirement health care costs and accruals established for employment costs. The following long-term liabilities
included on the consolidated balance sheet are excluded from the table above: accrued pension and postemployment costs, tax contingencies, insurance accruals and other accruals. We are unable to estimate the timing of payments (or contributions in
the case of accrued pension costs) for these items. Currently, we anticipate making pension contributions of approximately $163 million in 2012, based on current tax and benefit laws (as discussed in Note 13.  Benefit Plans  to our consolidated
financial statements).        The E.C. agreement payments discussed below are excluded from the table above, as the
payments are subject to adjustment based on certain variables including our market share in the EU.       E.C. Agreement:  In 2004, we
entered into an agreement with the European Commission (acting on behalf of the European Community) that provides for broad cooperation with European law enforcement agencies on anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit efforts. This agreement has been
signed by all 27 Member States. This agreement calls for payments that are to be adjusted based on certain variables, including our market share in the European Union in the year preceding payment. Because future additional payments are subject to
these variables, we record these payments as an expense in cost of sales when product is shipped. In addition, we are also responsible to pay the excise taxes, VAT and customs duties on qualifying product seizures of up to 90 million cigarettes
and are subject to payments of five times the applicable taxes and duties if qualifying product seizures exceed 90 million cigarettes in a given year. To date, our annual payments related to product seizures have been immaterial. Total charges
related to the E.C. Agreement of $86 million, $91 million and $84 million were recorded in cost of sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
   Other:  In addition to the contractual obligations noted above, we entered into separate agreements with Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V. ( Grupo
Carso ) in 2007 and FTC in 2010, which relate to the potential purchase of the noncontrolling interest in our Mexican and Philippines tobacco businesses by PMI. See Note 4.  Related Party Information  to our consolidated financial
statements for a discussion of our agreement with Grupo Carso and Note 6.  Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements  to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our agreement with FTC.   
          
     Equity and Dividends:  As discussed in Note 9.  Stock Plans  to our consolidated financial statements, during 2011, we granted 3.8 million shares of restricted stock and deferred stock awards at a
weighted-average grant date fair value of $59.44. The restricted stock and deferred stock awards will not vest until the completion of the original restriction period, which is typically three years from the date of the original grant.   
  On May 1, 2008, we began a $13.0 billion two-year share repurchase program. On April 30, 2010, we completed this $13.0 billion
share repurchase program by purchasing, in total, 277.6 million shares at an average price of $46.83 per share.      On
May 1, 2010, we began repurchasing shares under a three-year $12 billion share repurchase program that was authorized by our Board of Directors in February 2010. From May 1, 2010 through December 31, 2011, we repurchased
136.4 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $8.4 billion under this repurchase program. During 2011, we repurchased 80.5 million shares at a cost of $5.4 billion.   
  On February 9, 2012, we announced that our forecast includes a share repurchase target amount for 2012 of $6.0 billion.   
         40   

Dividends paid to public stockholders in 2011 were $4.8 billion. During the third quarter of
2011, our Board of Directors approved a 20.3% increase in the quarterly dividend rate to $0.77 per common share. As a result, the present annualized dividend rate is $3.08 per common share.       Market Risk                Counterparty Risk:  We
predominantly work with financial institutions with strong short and long-term credit ratings as assigned by Standard   Poor s and Moody s. These banks are also part of a defined group of relationship banks. Non-investment grade
institutions are only used in certain emerging markets to the extent required by local business needs. We have a conservative approach when it comes to choosing financial counterparties and financial instruments. As such we do not invest or hold
investments in any structured or equity-linked products. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits maturing within less than 30 days.   
  We continuously monitor and assess the creditworthiness of all our counterparties.   
           Derivative Financial Instruments:  We operate in markets outside of the United States, with
manufacturing and sales facilities in various locations throughout the world. Consequently, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency exposure. We use derivative financial instruments principally to reduce our exposure to
market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.   
  See Note 15.  Financial Instruments  and Note 16.  Fair Value Measurements  to our consolidated financial statements for
further details on our derivative financial instruments.               Value at Risk:  We use a value
at risk computation to estimate the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest-rate-sensitive financial instruments and to estimate the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our foreign currency price-sensitive derivative
financial instruments. This computation includes our debt, short-term investments, and foreign currency forwards, swaps and options. Anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign
subsidiaries, which the foregoing instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the computation.      The computation
estimates were made assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. We use a  variance/co-variance  model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. These
interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the preceding quarter for determining value at risk at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and over each of the four preceding quarters for the
calculation of average value at risk amounts during each year. The values of foreign currency options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency and were valued accordingly in the computation.   
  The estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest-rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, under normal market
conditions and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from foreign currency instruments under normal market conditions, as calculated in the value at risk model, were as follows:   
   
            The value at risk computation is a risk analysis tool designed to
statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest and foreign currency rates under normal market conditions. The computation does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred
by us, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. We cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these results to be indicative of future movements in market rates or to be representative
of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future results of operations or financial position.       Contingencies
      See Note 21.  Contingencies  to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of contingencies.   
   Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results        Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements       We may from time to time make written or oral
forward-looking statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to stockholders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as
 strategy,   expects,   continues,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   will,   estimates,   intends,   projects,   goals, 
 targets  and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.   
         41   

We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe
we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in our securities. In
connection with the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially
from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the
 Business Environment  section. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.
We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time except in the normal course of our public disclosure obligations.       Risks Related to Our Business and Industry                          Cigarettes are subject to substantial taxes. Significant increases in
cigarette-related taxes have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted in numerous jurisdictions. These tax increases may disproportionately affect our profitability and make us less competitive versus certain of
our competitors.        Tax regimes, including excise taxes, sales taxes and import duties, can disproportionately affect the retail price of
manufactured cigarettes versus other tobacco products, or disproportionately affect the relative retail price of our manufactured cigarette brands versus cigarette brands manufactured by certain of our competitors. Because our portfolio is weighted
toward the premium-price manufactured cigarette category, tax regimes based on sales price can place us at a competitive disadvantage in certain markets. As a result, our volume and profitability may be adversely affected in these markets.
     Increases in cigarette taxes are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our sales of cigarettes, due to resulting
lower consumption levels, a shift in sales from manufactured cigarettes to other tobacco products and from the premium-price to the mid-price or low-price cigarette categories, where we may be under-represented, from local sales to legal
cross-border purchases of lower price products, or to illicit products such as contraband and counterfeit.                         Our business faces significant governmental action aimed at increasing
regulatory requirements with the goal of preventing the use of tobacco products.        Governmental actions, combined with the diminishing
social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced industry volume in many of our markets, and we expect that such factors will continue to reduce consumption levels and will increase downtrading and the
risk of counterfeiting, contraband and cross-border purchases. Significant regulatory developments will take place over the next few years in most of our markets, driven principally by the World Health Organization s Framework Convention on
Tobacco Control ( FCTC ). The FCTC is the first international public health treaty on tobacco, and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation. The FCTC has led to increased efforts by tobacco control advocates and
public health organizations to reduce the palatability and attractiveness of tobacco products to adult smokers. Regulatory initiatives that have been proposed, introduced or enacted include:   

the levying of substantial and increasing tax and duty charges;      

restrictions or bans on advertising, marketing and sponsorship;      

the display of larger health warnings, graphic health warnings and other labeling requirements;      

restrictions on packaging design, including the use of colors, and plain packaging;      

restrictions or bans on the display of tobacco product packaging at the point of sale and restrictions or bans on cigarette vending machines;

requirements regarding testing, disclosure and performance standards for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke constituents;

disclosure, restrictions, or bans of tobacco product ingredients;      

increased restrictions on smoking in public and work places and, in some instances, in private places and outdoors;      

elimination of duty free allowances for travelers; and      

encouraging litigation against tobacco companies.         Our operating income could be significantly affected by regulatory initiatives resulting in a significant decrease in demand for our brands, in particular requirements that lead to a commoditization of
tobacco products, as well as any significant increase in the cost of complying with new regulatory requirements.                         Litigation related to tobacco use and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke
( ETS ) could substantially reduce our profitability and could severely impair our liquidity.       There is litigation related to
tobacco products pending in certain jurisdictions. Damages claimed in some tobacco-related litigation are significant and, in certain cases in Brazil, Canada, Israel and Nigeria, range into the billions of U.S. dollars. We anticipate that new cases
will continue to be filed. The FCTC encourages litigation against tobacco product manufacturers. It is possible that our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter
or fiscal year by an unfavorable   
         42   

outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Please see Note 21.  Contingencies  to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of tobacco-related litigation.   
                     We
 face intense competition, and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations.       We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, taste, innovation, packaging, service, marketing, advertising and price. We are subject to highly competitive
conditions in all aspects of our business. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence, competitors  introduction of lower-price products
or innovative products, higher tobacco product taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between retail price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco products. Competitors include three large
international tobacco companies and several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, state-owned tobacco enterprises, principally in Algeria, China, Egypt, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Industry consolidation and privatizations
of state-owned enterprises have led to an overall increase in competitive pressures. Some competitors have different profit and volume objectives and some international competitors are less susceptible to changes in currency exchange rates.
                        Because we have operations in numerous countries, our results may be influenced by economic, regulatory and political developments in many countries.
      Some of the countries in which we operate face the threat of civil unrest and can be subject to regime changes. In others,
nationalization, terrorism, conflict and the threat of war may have a significant impact on the business environment. Economic, political, regulatory or other developments could disrupt our supply chain or our distribution capabilities. In addition,
such developments could lead to loss of property or equipment that are critical to our business in certain markets and difficulty in staffing and managing our operations, which could reduce our volumes, revenues and net earnings. In certain markets,
we are dependent on governmental approvals of various actions such as price changes.      In addition, despite our high ethical
standards and rigorous control and compliance procedures aimed at preventing and detecting unlawful conduct, given the breadth and scope of our international operations, we may not be able to detect all potential improper or unlawful conduct by our
employees and international partners.                         We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences or to respond to consumer behavior influenced by economic downturns.    
  Our tobacco business is subject to changes in consumer preferences, which may be influenced by local economic conditions. To be successful, we must:

promote brand equity successfully;          

anticipate and respond to new consumer trends;          

develop new products and markets and broaden brand portfolios;      

improve productivity; and          

be able to protect or enhance margins through price increases.      
  In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may tend to purchase lower-price brands, and the volume of our premium-price and mid-price
brands and our profitability could suffer accordingly.   
                   
  We lose revenues as a result of counterfeiting, contraband and cross-border purchases.       Large quantities of counterfeit cigarettes
are sold in the international market. We believe that  Marlboro  is the most heavily counterfeited international cigarette brand, although we cannot quantify the revenues we lose as a result of this activity. In addition, our revenues are
reduced by contraband and legal cross-border purchases.   
                   
  From time to time, we are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters.       Investigations include allegations of
contraband shipments of cigarettes, allegations of unlawful pricing activities within certain markets, allegations of underpayment of customs duties and/or excise taxes, and allegations of false and misleading usage of descriptors such as
 lights  and  ultra lights.  We cannot predict the outcome of those investigations or whether additional investigations may be commenced, and it is possible that our business could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome
of pending or future investigations. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Operating Results by Business Segment   Business Environment   Governmental
Investigations  for a description of governmental investigations to which we are subject.                         We may be unsuccessful in our attempts to produce products with the
potential to reduce the risk of smoking-related diseases.       We continue to seek ways to develop commercially viable new product
technologies that may reduce the risk of smoking. Our goal is to develop products whose potential for risk reduction can be substantiated and meet adult smokers  taste expectations. We may not succeed in these efforts. If we do not succeed, but
others do, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether regulators will permit the marketing of tobacco products with claims of reduced risk to consumers, which could significantly undermine the commercial
viability of these products.                         Our reported results could be adversely affected by unfavorable currency exchange rates, and currency devaluations could impair our
competitiveness.       We conduct our business primarily in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, the local currency results
are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will
translate into fewer U.S. dollars. During periods of local   
         43   

economic crises, foreign currencies may be devalued significantly against the U.S. dollar, reducing our margins. Actions to recover margins may result in lower volume and a weaker competitive
position.                 The repatriation of our foreign earnings, changes in the earnings mix,
and changes in U.S. tax laws may increase our effective tax rate.       Because we are a U.S. holding company, our most significant source of
funds is distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under current U.S. tax law, in general we do not pay U.S. taxes on our foreign earnings until they are repatriated to the U.S. as distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. These
distributions may result in a residual U.S. tax cost. It may be advantageous to us in certain circumstances to significantly increase the amount of such distributions, which could result in a material increase in our overall effective tax rate.
Additionally, the Obama Administration has indicated that it favors changes in U.S. tax law that would fundamentally change how our earnings are taxed in the U.S. If enacted and depending upon its precise terms, such legislation could increase our
overall effective tax rate.                 Our ability to grow may be limited by our inability to
introduce new products, enter new markets or to improve our margins through higher pricing and improvements in our brand and geographic mix.       Our profitability may suffer if we are unable to introduce new products or enter new markets successfully, to raise prices or maintain an acceptable proportion of our sales of higher margin products and
sales in higher margin geographies.                 We may be unable to expand our brand portfolio
through successful acquisitions and the development of strategic business relationships.       One element of our growth strategy is to
strengthen our brand portfolio and market positions through selective acquisitions and the development of strategic business relationships. Acquisition and strategic business development opportunities are limited and present risks of failing to
achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There is no assurance that we will be able to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, or that future acquisitions or
strategic business developments will be accretive to earnings.                 Government mandated
prices, production control programs, shifts in crops driven by economic conditions and the impacts of climate change may increase the cost or reduce the quality of the tobacco and other agricultural products used to manufacture our products.
      As with other agricultural commodities, the price of tobacco leaf and cloves can be influenced by imbalances in supply and demand, and
crop quality can be influenced by variations in weather patterns, including those caused by climate change. Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including government mandated prices and production control
programs. Changes in the patterns of demand for agricultural products could cause farmers to plant less tobacco. Any significant change in tobacco leaf and clove prices, quality and quantity could affect our profitability and our business.
                Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best global
talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of cigarette smoking.       The tobacco industry competes for talent with consumer
products and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance. As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain the best global talent.                 The failure of our information systems to function as intended or their penetration by outside parties with the intent to corrupt them could
result in business disruption, loss of revenue, assets or personal or other sensitive data.       We use information systems to help manage
business processes, collect and interpret business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. Some of these information systems are managed by third-party service providers. We have backup systems
and business continuity plans in place, and we take care to protect our systems and data from unauthorized access. Nevertheless, failure of our systems to function as intended, or penetration of our systems by outside parties intent on extracting or
corrupting information or otherwise disrupting business processes, could result in loss of revenue, assets or personal or other sensitive data, cause damage to our reputation and that of our brands and result in significant remediation and other
costs to us.   
         44   

Selected Financial Data Five-Year Review    
   (in millions of dollars, except per share data)       

(1)  
  For the year 2007, share amount is based on the number of shares distributed by Altria on the Distribution Date.     
  This Selected Financial Data should be read together with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  and the consolidated financial statements.   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
   (in millions of dollars, except share data)       
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Consolidated Statements of Earnings    
   (in millions of dollars, except per share data)       
 
   See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity    
   (in millions of dollars, except per share data)       

(1)  
  Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests exclude $97 million of earnings related to the redeemable noncontrolling interest, which is reported outside of
the equity section in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011. Currency translation adjustments related to redeemable noncontrolling interest at December 31, 2011, were less than $1 million. Net earnings attributable to
noncontrolling interests exclude $26 million of earnings related to the redeemable noncontrolling interest, which is reported outside of the equity section in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010. Currency translation adjustments
also exclude $16 million of gains related to the redeemable noncontrolling interest at December 31, 2010.     
  See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
   (in millions of dollars)       
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

As discussed in Note 6.  Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements , PMI s 2010 business combination in the Philippines
was a non-cash transaction.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
    Note 1.    
    Background and Basis of Presentation:                 Background:  Philip Morris International Inc. is a holding company incorporated in Virginia, U.S.A., whose subsidiaries and affiliates and their
licensees are engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in markets outside of the United States of America. Throughout these financial statements, the term  PMI  refers to Philip Morris International Inc.
and its subsidiaries.      Prior to March 28, 2008, PMI was a wholly owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.
( Altria ).                Basis of presentation:  The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent
liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Significant estimates and assumptions include, among other things, pension and benefit plan assumptions, useful
lives and valuation assumptions of goodwill and other intangible assets, marketing programs and income taxes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.      The consolidated financial statements include PMI, as well as its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. Investments in which PMI exercises significant influence (generally 20%   50% ownership
interest) are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Investments in which PMI has an ownership interest of less than 20%, or does not exercise significant influence, are accounted for with the cost method of accounting. All
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.   
    Note 2.    
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:                 Cash and cash equivalents:  Cash equivalents include demand deposits with banks and all highly liquid investments with original maturities of
three months or less.                Depreciation:  Property, plant and equipment are stated at
historical cost and depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 15 years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to 40
years. Depreciation expense for 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $895 million, $844 million and $779 million, respectively.   
            Goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets valuation:  PMI tests goodwill and
non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if events occur that would warrant such review. PMI performs its annual impairment analysis in the first quarter of each year. The impairment analysis involves comparing
the fair value of each reporting unit or non-amortizable intangible asset to the carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, goodwill or a non-amortizable intangible asset is considered impaired. To determine the fair value of
goodwill, PMI primarily uses a discounted cash flow model, supported by the market approach using earnings multiples of comparable companies. To determine the fair value of non-amortizable intangible assets, PMI primarily uses a discounted cash flow
model applying the relief-from-royalty method. These discounted cash flow models include management assumptions relevant for forecasting operating cash flows, which are subject to changes in business conditions, such as volumes and prices, costs to
produce, discount rates and estimated capital needs. Management considers historical experience and all available information at the time the fair values are estimated, and PMI believes these assumptions are consistent with the assumptions a
hypothetical marketplace participant would use. PMI concluded that the fair value of our reporting units and non-amortizable intangible assets exceeded the carrying value and any reasonable movement in the assumptions would not result in an
impairment. Since the March 28, 2008, spin-off from Altria, PMI has not recorded a charge to earnings for an impairment of goodwill or non-amortizable intangible assets.                Foreign currency translation:  PMI translates the results of operations of its subsidiaries and affiliates using average exchange rates during
each period, whereas balance sheet accounts are translated using exchange rates at the end of each period. Currency translation adjustments are recorded as a component of stockholders  equity. In addition, some of PMI s subsidiaries have
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies, and to the extent those are not designated as net investment hedges, these assets and liabilities generate transaction gains and losses when translated into
their respective functional currencies. PMI recorded net transaction gains (losses) of ($24) million, ($17) million and $9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in marketing, administration and research
costs on the consolidated statements of earnings.                Hedging instruments:
 Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets as either assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period either in accumulated other comprehensive earnings
(losses) or in earnings, depending on whether a derivative is designated and effective as part of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Gains and losses on derivative instruments reported in accumulated other
comprehensive earnings (losses) are   

reclassified to the consolidated statements of earnings in the periods in which operating results are
affected by the hedged item. Cash flows from hedging instruments are classified in the same manner as the affected hedged item in the consolidated statements of cash flows.                Impairment of long-lived assets:  PMI reviews long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or
changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. PMI performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. For purposes of recognition and measurement
of an impairment for assets held for use, PMI groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value.
Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.   
            Income taxes:  Income tax provisions for jurisdictions outside the United States, as well as
state and local income tax provisions, are determined on a separate company basis, and the related assets and liabilities are recorded in PMI s consolidated balance sheets. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions
and in evaluating tax positions.      PMI recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as
part of the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of earnings.   
            Inventories:  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The first-in, first-out
and average cost methods are used to cost substantially all inventories. It is a generally recognized industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory, because of the duration of the aging
process, ordinarily would not be utilized within one year.                Marketing costs:  PMI
promotes its products with advertising, consumer incentives and trade promotions. Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, rebates, in-store display incentives and volume-based incentives. Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Trade promotions are recorded as a reduction of revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers at the end of a period, based principally on historical utilization. For interim reporting purposes, advertising and certain consumer
incentive expenses are charged to earnings based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year.   
            Revenue recognition:  PMI recognizes revenues, net of sales incentives and including shipping
and handling charges billed to customers, either upon shipment or delivery of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers. Excise taxes billed by PMI to customers are reported in net revenues. Shipping and handling costs are classified as
part of cost of sales and were $905 million, $653 million and $603 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.                Software costs:  PMI capitalizes certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining
computer software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment on PMI s consolidated balance sheets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the software, which
do not exceed five years.                Stock-based compensation:  PMI measures compensation
cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognizes the compensation costs over the service periods for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and deferred stock is determined based on the number of
shares granted and the market value at date of grant. The fair value of stock options is determined using a modified Black-Scholes methodology.      Excess tax benefits from the vesting of stock-based awards of $19 million, $32 million and $26 million were recognized in additional paid-in capital as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and were presented as financing cash flows.   
    Note 3.    
    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net:       Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, by segment were as follows:       

Goodwill is due primarily to PMI s acquisitions in Canada, Indonesia,
Mexico, Greece, Serbia, Colombia and Pakistan, as well as the business combination in the Philippines in February 2010. The movements in goodwill are as follows:       
    The increase in goodwill during 2010 from other business combinations relates to our new leaf procurement
business in Brazil, which has been allocated to all of PMI s reportable segments based on the projected use of Brazilian leaf. For further details on acquisitions and business combinations, see Note 6.  Acquisitions and Other Business
Arrangements.       Additional details of other intangible assets were as follows:   
   
    Non-amortizable intangible assets substantially consist of trademarks from PMI s acquisitions in
Indonesia in 2005 and Mexico in 2007. Amortizable intangible assets primarily consist of certain trademarks, distribution networks and non-compete agreements associated with business combinations. The range of useful lives as well as the
weighted-average remaining useful life of amortizable intangible assets at December 31, 2011, is as follows:       
    Pre-tax amortization expense for intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, was $98 million, $88 million and $74 million, respectively. Amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be $98 million or less, assuming no additional transactions occur that require the amortization of intangible
assets.      The decrease in other intangible assets from December 31, 2010, was due primarily to currency movements,
partially offset by the purchase of patent rights related to a new aerosol delivery technology that has the potential to reduce the harm of smoking.   
    Note 4.    
    Related Party Information:       Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V. ( Grupo Carso ) retains a 20% noncontrolling interest in PMI s Mexican tobacco business. A director of PMI has an affiliation with Grupo Carso. In 2007, PMI and
Grupo Carso entered into an agreement for PMI to potentially acquire, or for Grupo Carso to potentially sell to PMI, Grupo Carso s remaining 20% noncontrolling interest in the future.   

Note 5.    
    Asset Impairment and Exit Costs:       During 2011, 2010 and 2009, pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs consisted of the following:       
     Exit Costs                 Separation Programs:  PMI recorded pre-tax separation program charges of $63 million, $27 million and $29 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The 2011 pre-tax separation program charges primarily related to severance costs for factory and R D restructurings. The 2010 and 2009 pre-tax separation program charges primarily related to
severance costs.                Contract Termination Charges:  During the third quarter of 2011,
PMI recorded exit costs of $12 million related to the termination of a distribution agreement in Eastern Europe, Middle East   Africa.        On February 25, 2010, PMI s affiliate, Philip Morris Philippines Manufacturing Inc. ( PMPMI ), and Fortune Tobacco Corporation ( FTC ) combined their respective
business activities by transferring selected assets and liabilities of PMPMI and FTC to a new company called PMFTC Inc. ( PMFTC ). For further details on this business combination, see Note 6.  Acquisitions and Other Business
Arrangements.  During the fourth quarter of 2010, PMI recorded exit costs of $20 million related to the early termination of a transition services agreement between FTC and PMFTC.                  Movement in Exit Cost Liabilities:  The movement in the exit cost liabilities for PMI was as follows:   
   
    Cash payments related to exit costs at PMI were $98 million, $75 million and $56 million for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Future cash payments for exit costs incurred to date are expected to be approximately $28 million, and these costs will be substantially paid by the end of 2012.   
   Asset Impairment Charges       PMI recorded
pre-tax asset impairment charges of $34 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. These charges primarily related to factory restructurings and the consolidation of R D activities.   
  
    Note 6.    
    Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements:                 Philippines Business Combination:  On February 25, 2010, PMI s affiliate, Philip Morris Philippines Manufacturing Inc.
( PMPMI ), and Fortune Tobacco Corporation ( FTC ) combined their respective business activities by transferring selected assets and liabilities of PMPMI and FTC to a new company called PMFTC Inc. ( PMFTC ). PMPMI and
FTC hold equal economic interests in PMFTC, while PMI manages the day-to-day operations of PMFTC and has a majority of its Board of Directors. Consequently, PMI accounts for the contributed assets and liabilities of FTC as a business combination.
The establishment of PMFTC permits both parties to benefit from their respective, complementary brand portfolios, as well as cost synergies from the resulting integration of manufacturing, distribution and procurement, and the further development
and advancement of tobacco growing in the Philippines.      As PMI has control of PMFTC, the contribution of PMPMI s net
assets was recorded at book value, while the contribution of the FTC net assets to PMFTC was recorded at fair value. The difference between the two contributions resulted in an increase to PMI s additional paid-in capital in 2010 of $477
million.   

The fair value of the assets and liabilities contributed by FTC in this non-cash transaction
has been determined to be $1.17 billion, and this final fair value has been primarily allocated to goodwill ($842 million), inventories ($486 million), property, plant and equipment ($289 million) and brands ($240 million), partially offset by
long-term debt ($495 million, of which $77 million was shown as current portion of long-term debt), deferred taxes ($138 million, net of $18 million of current deferred tax assets) and other current liabilities. The final purchase price allocations
were reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010.      FTC also holds the right to sell its interest
in PMFTC to PMI, except in certain circumstances, during the period from February 25, 2015 through February 24, 2018, at an agreed-upon value of $1.17 billion, which is recorded on PMI s consolidated balance sheet as a redeemable
noncontrolling interest at the date of the business combination. The amount of FTC s redeemable noncontrolling interest at the date of the business combination was determined as follows:   

(in millions)    

Noncontrolling interest in contributed net assets   
      
  $  
  693  

Accretion to redeemable value   

477  

Redeemable noncontrolling interest at date of business combination   
      
  $  
  1,170  

PMI decided to immediately recognize the accretion to redeemable value rather than recognizing it over
the term of the agreement with FTC. This accretion has been charged against additional paid-in capital and fully offsets the increase that resulted from the contributions of net assets to PMFTC, noted above.   
  With the consolidation of PMFTC, FTC s share of PMFTC s comprehensive income or loss is attributable to the redeemable
noncontrolling interest, impacting the carrying value. To the extent that the attribution of these amounts would cause the carrying value to fall below the redemption amount of $1.17 billion, the carrying amount would be adjusted back up to the
redemption value through stockholders  equity. The movement in redeemable noncontrolling interest after the business combination is as follows:       
    In future periods, if the fair value of 50% of PMFTC were to drop below the redemption value of $1.17
billion, the difference would be treated as a special dividend to FTC and would reduce PMI s earnings per share. Reductions in earnings per share may be partially or fully reversed in subsequent periods if the fair value of the redeemable
non-controlling interest increases relative to the redemption value. Such increases in earnings per share would be limited to cumulative prior reductions. At December 31, 2011, PMI determined that 50% of the fair value of PMFTC exceeded the
redemption value of $1.17 billion.                Brazil:  In June 2010, PMI announced that its
affiliate, Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda. ( PMB ), will begin directly sourcing tobacco leaf from approximately 17,000 tobacco farmers in Southern Brazil. This initiative enhances PMI s direct involvement in the
supply chain and is expected to provide approximately 10% of PMI s global leaf requirements. The vertically integrated structure was made possible following separate agreements with two leaf suppliers in Brazil, Alliance One Brasil Exportadora
de Tabacos Ltda. ( AOB ) and Universal Leaf Tabacos Ltda. ( ULT ). These agreements resulted in AOB assigning approximately 9,000 contracts with tobacco farmers to PMB and ULT assigning approximately 8,000 contracts with tobacco
farmers to PMB. As a result, PMB offered employment to more than 200 employees, most of them agronomy specialists, and acquired related assets in Southern Brazil. The purchase price for the net assets and the contractual relationships was $83
million, which was paid in 2010. PMI accounted for these transactions as a business combination. The allocation of the purchase price was to other intangible assets ($34 million, farmers contracts), inventories ($33 million), goodwill ($18 million),
property, plant and equipment ($16 million) and other non-current assets ($11 million), partially offset by other current liabilities ($29 million, which consists primarily of the total amount of bank guarantees for tobacco farmers  rural
credit facilities).                Other:  In June 2011, PMI completed the acquisition of a
cigarette business in Jordan, consisting primarily of cigarette manufacturing assets and inventories, for $42 million. In January 2011, PMI acquired a cigar business, consisting primarily of trademarks in the Australian and New Zealand markets, for
$20 million.      In September 2009, PMI acquired Swedish Match South Africa (Proprietary) Limited, for ZAR 1.93 billion
(approximately $256 million based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of the acquisition), including acquired cash.      In
February 2009, PMI purchased the  Petter es  tobacco business for $209 million. Assets purchased consisted primarily of definite-lived trademarks of other tobacco products primarily sold in Norway and Sweden.   
  The effects of these and other smaller acquisitions were not material to PMI s consolidated financial position, results of
operations or operating cash flows in any of the periods presented.   

Note 7.    
    Indebtedness:    
            Short-Term Borrowings:  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, PMI s short-term borrowings
and related average interest rates consisted of the following:       
    Given the mix of subsidiaries and their respective local economic environments, the average interest rate
for bank loans above can vary significantly from day to day and country to country.      The fair values of PMI s short-term
borrowings at December 31, 2011 and 2010, based upon current market interest rates, approximate the amounts disclosed above.   
            Long-Term Debt:  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, PMI s long-term debt consisted of
the following:       
     Debt offerings in 2011       PMI s debt offerings in 2011 were as follows:       
     
    The net proceeds from the sale of these securities were used to meet PMI s working capital requirements, to repurchase PMI s common stock, to refinance debt and for general corporate purposes.
      Other debt       Other foreign
currency debt above includes $85 million and $137 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of capital lease obligations primarily associated with PMI s vending machine distribution network in Japan. Other foreign currency debt
also includes long-term debt from our business combination in the Philippines and mortgage debt in Switzerland at December 31, 2011 and 2010.      
   Aggregate maturities       Aggregate
maturities of long-term debt are as follows:       
    See Note 16.  Fair Value Measurements  for additional disclosures related to the fair value of
PMI s debt.                Credit Facilities:  In May 2011, PMI entered into an agreement
with certain financial institutions to extend the expiration date for its $2.5 billion revolving credit facility from September 30, 2013 to March 31, 2015.      On October 25, 2011, PMI entered into a new multi-year revolving credit facility in the amount of $3.5 billion, which expires on October 25, 2016. This new revolving credit facility replaced
PMI s $2.7 billion multi-year credit facility, which was to expire on December 4, 2012.      At December 31, 2011,
PMI s committed credit facilities and commercial paper outstanding were as follows:       

Type       (in billions of dollars)    
      
   Committed Credit Facilities   

Commercial Paper   

Multi-year revolving credit, expiring March 31, 2015   
      
   $   
   2.5   

Multi-year revolving credit, expiring October 25, 2016   

3.5   

Total facilities   
      
   $   
   6.0   

Commercial paper outstanding   

$   
   1.3   

At December 31, 2011, there were no borrowings under the committed credit facilities, and the entire
committed amounts were available for borrowing.   

Each of these facilities requires PMI to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( consolidated EBITDA ) to consolidated interest expense of not less than 3.5 to 1.0 on a rolling four-quarter basis. At December 31, 2011, PMI s ratio calculated in accordance with
the agreements was 15.9 to 1.0. These facilities do not include any credit rating triggers, material adverse change clauses or any provisions that could require PMI to post collateral. The terms  consolidated EBITDA  and  consolidated
interest expense,  both of which include certain adjustments, are defined in the facility agreements previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.      In addition to the committed credit facilities discussed above, certain subsidiaries maintain short-term credit arrangements to meet their respective working capital needs. These credit arrangements,
which amounted to approximately $1.9 billion at December 31, 2011, are for the sole use of the subsidiaries. Borrowings under these arrangements amounted to $247 million at December 31, 2011, and $538 million at December 31, 2010.
  
    Note 8.    
    Capital Stock:       Shares of authorized common stock are 6.0 billion; issued, repurchased and outstanding shares were as follows:       
    PMI commenced a $13.0 billion two-year share repurchase program on May 1, 2008. On April 30,
2010, PMI completed the $13.0 billion share repurchase program, which resulted in the purchase of 277.6 million shares at an average price of $46.83 per share. On May 1, 2010, PMI commenced a new $12 billion three-year share repurchase
program. From May 1, 2010, through December 31, 2011, PMI repurchased 136.4 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $8.4 billion, or $61.22 per share, under this repurchase program. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, PMI repurchased
$5.4 billion, $5.0 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively, of its common stock.      At December 31, 2011, 38,667,433 shares
of common stock were reserved for stock options and other stock awards under PMI s stock plans, and 250 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, were authorized but unissued. PMI currently has no plans to issue any shares of
preferred stock.   
    Note 9.    
    Stock Plans:    
            Performance Incentive Plan and Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors:  Under the
Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), PMI may grant to certain eligible employees stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, deferred stock and deferred
stock units and other stock-based awards based on PMI s common stock, as well as performance-based incentive awards. Up to 70 million shares of PMI s common stock may be issued under the Plan. At December 31, 2011, shares
available for grant under the Plan were 28,404,021.      PMI also adopted the Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Stock
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  Non-Employee Directors Plan ). A non-employee director is defined as each member of the PMI Board of Directors who is not a full-time employee of PMI or of any corporation in which PMI
owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing at least 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote in the election of directors in such corporation. Up to 1 million shares of PMI common stock may be awarded
under the Non-Employee Directors Plan. As of December 31, 2011, shares available for grant under the plan were 818,410.       Restricted
and Deferred Stock Awards       PMI may grant restricted stock and deferred stock awards to eligible employees; recipients may not sell, assign,
pledge or otherwise encumber such shares or awards. Such shares or awards are subject to forfeiture if certain employment conditions are not met. Restricted stock and deferred stock awards generally vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.
Shares of restricted stock carry voting and dividend rights. Deferred stock awards carry no such rights, although they do earn dividend equivalents.   

During 2011, the activity for restricted stock and deferred stock awards was as follows:
      
    The weighted-average grant date fair value of the restricted stock and deferred stock awards granted to
PMI employees during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $229 million, $169 million and $142 million, or $59.44, $47.54 and $37.01 per restricted or deferred share, respectively. The fair value of the restricted stock and
deferred stock awards at the date of grant is amortized to expense ratably over the restriction period. PMI recorded compensation expense for the restricted and deferred stock awards of $162 million, $127 million and $93 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The unamortized compensation expense related to restricted and deferred stock awards was $221 million at December 31, 2011, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
two years.      During the year ended December 31, 2011, 1.8 million shares of PMI restricted and deferred stock awards
vested. The grant date fair value of all the vested shares was approximately $84 million. The total fair value of the awards that vested in 2011 was approximately $107 million.   
  During the year ended December 31, 2010, 2.0 million shares of PMI restricted stock and deferred stock awards vested. Of this
amount, 1.4 million shares went to PMI employees, and the remainder went to Altria employees who held PMI stock awards as a result of the spin-off. The grant date fair value of all the vested shares was approximately $123 million. The total
fair value of the awards that vested in 2010 was approximately the same as the grant date fair value. The grant price information for restricted stock and deferred stock awarded prior to January 30, 2008, reflects the historical market price of
Altria stock at date of grant and was not adjusted to reflect the spin-off.      During the year ended December 31, 2009,
1.5 million shares of PMI restricted and deferred stock awards vested. Of this amount, 1.0 million shares went to PMI employees, and the remainder went to Altria and Kraft Foods Inc. employees who held PMI stock awards as a result of the
spin-off. The grant date fair value of all the vested shares was approximately $107 million. The total fair value of restricted stock and deferred stock awards that vested in 2009 was approximately the same as the grant date fair value.   
   Stock Option Awards       At
December 31, 2011, PMI shares subject to option were as follows:       
    For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the total intrinsic value of PMI stock options
exercised was $129 million, $292 million and $222 million, respectively.   
    Note 10.    
    Earnings per Share:    
  Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are participating securities and therefore
are included in PMI s earnings per share calculation pursuant to the two-class method.         Basic and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) were calculated using the following:       
    For the 2009 computation, the number of stock options excluded from the calculation of weighted-average
shares for diluted EPS, because their effects were antidilutive, was immaterial. For the 2011 and 2010 computations, there were no antidilutive stock options.   

Note 11.    
    Income Taxes:    
  Earnings before income taxes and provision for income taxes consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
      
    United States income tax is primarily attributable to repatriation costs.   
  At December 31, 2011, applicable United States federal income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on
approximately $15 billion of accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are expected to be permanently reinvested. The determination of the amount of deferred tax related to these earnings is not practicable.   
  On March 28, 2008, PMI entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement (the  Tax Sharing Agreement ) with Altria. The Tax Sharing
Agreement generally governs PMI s and Altria s respective rights, responsibilities and obligations for pre-distribution periods and for potential taxes on the spin-off of PMI by Altria. With respect to any potential tax resulting from the
spin-off of PMI by Altria, responsibility for the tax will be allocated to the party that acted (or failed to act) in a manner that resulted in the tax.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
    Unrecognized tax benefits and PMI s liability for contingent income taxes, interest and penalties
were as follows:       
    The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate was $50
million at December 31, 2011. The remainder, if recognized, would principally affect deferred taxes.      For the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, PMI recognized income in its consolidated statements of earnings of less than $1 million, $17 million and $1 million, respectively, related to interest and penalties due to a decrease in unrecognized tax
benefits.              PMI is regularly examined by tax authorities around the world and is currently
under examination in a number of jurisdictions. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the years 2004 and onward, with years 2004 to 2006 currently under examination by the IRS. Foreign and U.S. state jurisdictions have statutes of
limitations generally ranging from three to five years. Years still open to examination by foreign tax authorities in major jurisdictions include Germany (2007 onward), Indonesia (2007 onward), Russia (2010 onward) and Switzerland (2010 onward).
     It is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months certain tax examinations will close, which could result in a
change in unrecognized tax benefits along with related interest and penalties. An estimate of any possible change cannot be made at this time.      The effective income tax rate on pre-tax earnings differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate for the following reasons for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
   
    The 2011 effective tax rate increased 1.7 percentage points to 29.1%. The 2011 effective tax rate was
favorably impacted by an enacted decrease in corporate income tax rates in Greece ($11 million) and the reversal of a valuation allowance in Brazil ($15 million).   

The 2010 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by the reversal of tax reserves ($148
million) following the conclusion of the IRS examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 2000 through 2003, partially offset by the negative impact of an enacted increase in corporate income tax rates in Greece
($21 million) and the net result of an audit in Italy ($6 million).      The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise
to deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following:       
 
    Note 12.    
    Segment Reporting:    
  PMI s subsidiaries and affiliates are engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in markets outside of the United
States of America. Reportable segments for PMI are organized and managed by geographic region. PMI s reportable segments are European Union; Eastern Europe, Middle East   Africa; Asia; and Latin America   Canada. PMI records
net revenues and operating companies income to its segments based upon the geographic area in which the customer resides.   
    PMI s management evaluates segment performance and allocates resources based on operating companies income, which PMI defines
as operating income before general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. Interest expense, net, and provision for income taxes are centrally managed; accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the
measure of segment profitability reviewed by management. Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by PMI s chief operating decision maker. Segment goodwill and other
intangible assets, net, are disclosed in Note 3.  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net.  The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.    
  Segment data were as follows:       

Long-lived assets consist of non-current assets other than goodwill, other intangible
assets, net, and deferred tax assets. PMI s largest market in terms of long-lived assets is Switzerland. Total long-lived assets located in Switzerland, which is reflected in the European Union segment above, were $1.0 billion, $1.0 billion and
$976 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      Items affecting the comparability of results from
operations were as follows:       

Asset Impairment and Exit Costs      See Note 5.  Asset Impairment and Exit Costs  for a breakdown of asset impairment and
exit costs by segment.          

Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement charge      During the second quarter of 2009, PMI recorded a pre-tax charge of
$135 million related to the Investment and Cooperation Agreement in Colombia. The charge was recorded in the operating companies income of the Latin America   Canada segment. See Note 18.  Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement
 for additional information.          

Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements    For further details, see Note 6.  Acquisitions and Other Business
  Arrangements.       
    Note 13.    
    Benefit Plans:    
  Pension coverage for employees of PMI s subsidiaries is provided, to the extent deemed appropriate, through separate plans, many of which are
governed by local statutory requirements. In addition, PMI provides health care and other benefits to substantially all U.S. retired employees and certain non-U.S. retired employees. In general, health care benefits for non-U.S. retired employees
are covered through local government plans.      The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at
December 31, 2011, consisted of the following:       
    The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at December 31, 2010, consisted of
the following:       
    The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at December 31, 2009, consisted of
the following:       
       The movements in other
comprehensive earnings (losses) during the year ended December 31, 2011, were as follows:       

The movements in other comprehensive earnings (losses) during the year ended
December 31, 2010, were as follows:       
    The movements in other comprehensive earnings (losses) during the year ended December 31, 2009, were
as follows:       

Pension Plans        
   Obligations and Funded Status       The
benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of PMI s pension plans at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were as follows:       
    At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the combined U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans resulted in a net
pension liability of $930 million and $379 million, respectively. These amounts were recognized in PMI s consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, as follows:   
   
    The accumulated benefit obligation, which represents benefits earned to date, for the U.S. pension plans
was $323 million and $294 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligation for non-U.S. pension plans was $5,042 million and $4,439 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

For U.S. pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the
projected benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation were $76 million and $66 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. The projected benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation were $79 million and $70 million,
respectively, as of December 31, 2010. The underfunding relates to plans for salaried employees that cannot be funded under IRS regulations. For non-U.S. plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit
obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets were $3,785 million, $3,343 million, and $2,973 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, and $310 million, $245 million, and $41 million, respectively, as of
December 31, 2010. In 2011, the accumulated benefit obligation of the pension plan in Switzerland exceeded the fair value of plan assets.      The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine PMI s benefit obligations at December 31:       
    The discount rate for PMI s U.S. plans is based on an index of high-quality corporate bonds with
durations that match the benefit obligations. The discount rate for PMI s non-U.S. plans was developed from local bond indices that match local benefit obligations as closely as possible.   
   Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost    
  Net periodic pension cost consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
   
    Termination, settlement and curtailment charges were due primarily to early retirement programs.
     For the combined U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, the estimated net loss and prior service cost that are expected to be
amortized from accumulated other comprehensive earnings into net periodic benefit cost during 2012 are $135 million and $11 million, respectively.      The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine PMI s net pension cost:       
    PMI s expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by the plan assets  historical
long-term investment performance, current asset allocation and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class.      PMI and
certain of its subsidiaries sponsor defined contribution plans. Amounts charged to expense for defined contribution plans totaled $61 million, $53 million and $42 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
      Plan Assets       PMI s
investment strategy for U.S. and non-U.S. plans is based on an expectation that equity securities will outperform debt securities over the long term. Accordingly, the target allocation of PMI s plan assets is broadly characterized as
approximately a 60%/40% split between equity and debt securities. The strategy primarily utilizes indexed U.S. equity securities, international equity securities and investment grade debt securities. PMI s plans have no investments in hedge
funds, private equity or derivatives. PMI attempts to mitigate investment risk by rebalancing between equity and debt asset classes once a year or as PMI s contributions and benefit payments are made.   

The fair value of PMI s pension plan assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, by
asset category was as follows:       

(a)  
  Investment funds whose objective seeks to replicate the returns and characteristics of specified market indices (primarily MSCI   Europe, Switzerland, North
America, Asia Pacific, Japan, Russell 3000, S P 500 for equities; and Citigroup EMU, Citigroup Switzerland and Barclays Capital U.S. for bonds), primarily consist of mutual funds, common trust funds and commingled funds. Of these funds, 53% are
invested in U.S. and international equities; 34% are invested in U.S. and international government bonds; 7% are invested in corporate bonds; and 6% are invested in real estate and other money markets.     

(b)  
  Investment funds whose objective seeks to replicate the returns and characteristics of specified market indices (primarily MSCI   Europe, Switzerland, North
America, Asia Pacific, Japan, Russell 3000, S P 500 for equities; and Citigroup EMU, Citigroup Switzerland and Barclays Capital U.S. for bonds), primarily consist of mutual funds, common trust funds and commingled funds. Of these funds, 55% are
invested in U.S. and international equities; 36% are invested in U.S. and international government bonds; 5% are invested in corporate bonds; and 4% are invested in real estate and other money markets.     
  See Note 16.  Fair Value Measurements  for a discussion of the fair value of pension plan assets.   
  PMI makes, and plans to make, contributions, to the extent that they are tax deductible and to meet specific funding requirements of its
funded U.S. and non-U.S. plans. Currently, PMI anticipates making contributions of approximately $163 million in 2012 to its pension plans, based on current tax and benefit laws. However, this estimate is subject to change as a result of changes in
tax and other benefit laws, as well as asset performance significantly above or below the assumed long-term rate of return on pension assets, or changes in interest rates.   
     The estimated future benefit payments from PMI pension plans at
December 31, 2011, were as follows:       
                   Postretirement Benefit Plans
       Net postretirement health care costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
   
    The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine PMI s net postretirement costs for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:       

PMI s postretirement health care plans are not funded. The changes in the accumulated
benefit obligation and net amount accrued at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were as follows:       
    The current portion of PMI s accrued postretirement health care costs of $10 million at
December 31, 2011 and $9 million at December 31, 2010, is included in accrued employment costs on the consolidated balance sheet.      The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine PMI s postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 and 2010:   
   
    Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health
care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care trend rates would have the following effects as of December 31, 2011:       

One-Percentage- Point Increase   

One-Percentage- Point Decrease   

Effect on total service and interest cost   

19.1   
   %    

(14.8   
   )%     
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   

15.5   

(12.4   
   )     
    PMI s estimated future benefit payments for its post-retirement health care plans at
December 31, 2011, were as follows:       
                   Postemployment Benefit Plans
       PMI and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor postemployment benefit plans covering substantially all salaried and certain hourly
employees. The cost of these plans is charged to expense over the working life of the covered employees. Net postemployment costs consisted of the following:       
    During 2011, 2010 and 2009, certain salaried employees left PMI under separation programs. These programs
resulted in incremental postemployment costs, which are included in other expense, above.         The estimated net loss for the postemployment benefit plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive earnings into net postemployment costs during 2012 is approximately $54 million.
     The changes in the benefit obligations of the plans at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were as follows:   

The accrued postemployment costs were determined using a weighted-average discount rate of
6.8% and 7.3% in 2011 and 2010, respectively, an assumed ultimate annual weighted-average turnover rate of 2.5% and 2.3% in 2011 and 2010, respectively, assumed compensation cost increases of 3.0% in 2011 and 2010 and assumed benefits as defined in
the respective plans. In accordance with local regulations, certain postemployment plans are funded. As a result, the accrued postemployment costs shown above are presented net of the related assets of $24 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010.
Postemployment costs arising from actions that offer employees benefits in excess of those specified in the respective plans are charged to expense when incurred.   
    Note 14.    
    Additional Information:        
    Minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases in effect at December 31, 2011,
were as follows:       
 
    Note 15.    
    Financial Instruments:    
            Overview:  PMI operates in markets outside of the United States, with manufacturing and sales
facilities in various locations around the world. PMI utilizes certain financial instruments to manage foreign currency exposure. Derivative financial instruments are used by PMI principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. PMI is not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Financial instruments qualifying
for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. PMI formally documents the nature and relationships between the
hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Additionally, for hedges of forecasted transactions, the
significant characteristics and expected terms of the forecasted transaction must be specifically identified, and it must be probable that each forecasted transaction will occur. If it were deemed probable that the forecasted transaction would not
occur, the gain or loss would be recognized in earnings. PMI reports its net transaction gains or losses in marketing, administration and research costs on the consolidated statements of earnings.   
  PMI uses deliverable and non-deliverable forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and foreign currency options,
collectively referred to as foreign exchange contracts, to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates from third-party and intercompany actual and forecasted transactions. The primary currencies to which PMI is exposed include the Euro,
Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Russian ruble, Swiss franc and Turkish lira. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, PMI had contracts with aggregate notional amounts of $13.1 billion and $10.9 billion, respectively. Of the $13.1 billion
aggregate notional amount at December 31, 2011, $3.4 billion related to cash flow hedges and $9.7 billion related to other derivatives that primarily offset currency exposures on intercompany financing. Of the $10.9 billion aggregate notional
amount at December 31, 2010, $2.4 billion related to cash flow hedges, $0.2 billion related to hedges of net investments in foreign operations and $8.3 billion related to other derivatives that primarily offset currency exposures on
intercompany financing.   

The fair value of PMI s foreign exchange contracts included in the
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, were as follows:       
    Hedging activities, which represent movement in derivatives as well as the respective underlying
transactions, had the following effect on PMI s consolidated statements of earnings and other comprehensive earnings for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   

Each type of hedging activity is described in greater detail below.   
            Cash Flow Hedges:  PMI has entered into foreign exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency
exchange risk related to certain forecasted transactions. The effective portion of gains and losses associated with qualifying cash flow hedge contracts is deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive losses until the underlying hedged
transactions are reported in PMI s consolidated statements of earnings. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, ineffectiveness related to cash flow hedges was not material. As of December 31, 2011, PMI has hedged
forecasted transactions for periods not exceeding the next twelve months. The impact of these hedges is included in operating cash flows on PMI s consolidated statement of cash flows.   
  For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, foreign exchange contracts that were designated as cash flow hedging
instruments impacted the consolidated statements of earnings and other comprehensive earnings as follows:       
              Fair Value Hedges:  In 2009, PMI entered into foreign
exchange contracts to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk related to an intercompany loan between subsidiaries. For a derivative instrument that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative, as well as
the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, is recognized in current earnings. At June 30, 2009, all fair value hedges matured and were settled. Since June 30, 2009, there have been no fair value hedges.
For the year ended December 31, 2009, ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges was not material. Gains (losses) associated with qualifying fair value hedges were recorded in the consolidated statements of earnings and were $42 million for
the year ended December 31, 2009. The impact of fair value hedges is included in operating cash flows on PMI s consolidated statement of cash flows.   

For the year ended December 31, 2009, foreign exchange contracts that were designated
as fair value hedging instruments impacted the consolidated statement of earnings as follows:       

(pre-tax, in millions)    
      
     For the Year Ended December 31,
2009    

Derivatives in Fair Value   
   Hedging Relationship    

Statement of Earnings Classification of Gain/(Loss) on Derivatives    
      
   Amount
of Gain/(Loss) Recognized     in Earnings on Derivatives   

Statement of Earnings Classification of Gain/(Loss) on Hedged Item    
      
   Amount
of Gain/(Loss) Recognized     in Earnings Attributable to the Risk Being Hedged   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
  Marketing, administration and research costs  
      
  $  
  5  

Marketing, administration and research costs  
      
  $  
  (5  
  )    

Interest expense, net   

37  

Interest expense, net  

Total   

$  
  42  

$  
  (5  
  )    

Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign
Operations:  PMI designates certain foreign currency denominated debt and forward exchange contracts as net investment hedges of its foreign operations. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, these hedges of net investments
resulted in gains (losses), net of income taxes, of ($37) million, $315 million and ($71) million, respectively. These gains (losses) were reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive losses within currency translation adjustments. For
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, ineffectiveness related to net investment hedges was not material. Settlement of net investment hedges is included in other investing cash flows on PMI s consolidated statement of cash
flows.        For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, foreign exchange contracts that were designated as
net investment hedging instruments impacted the consolidated statements of earnings and other comprehensive earnings as follows:       

(pre-tax, in millions)    
      
     For the Years Ended
December 31,    

Derivatives in Net Investment   
   Hedging Relationship    
      
     Statement of Earnings   
   Classification of Gain/(Loss)       Reclassified from Other       Comprehensive Earnings   
   into Earnings    
      
   Amount
of     Gain/(Loss) Reclassified     from Other Comprehensive Earnings into     Earnings   

Amount of     Gain/(Loss) Recognized
in     Other Comprehensive Earnings on Derivatives   

2011   

2010   

2009   

2011   

2010   

2009   

Foreign exchange contracts   

$   
   2   

$  
  24  

$  
  (57  
  )    

Interest expense, net   
      
   $   

$  

$  

Other Derivatives:  PMI has entered into foreign exchange
contracts to hedge the foreign currency exchange risks related to intercompany loans between certain subsidiaries, and third-party loans. While effective as economic hedges, no hedge accounting is applied for these contracts; therefore, the
unrealized gains (losses) relating to these contracts are reported in PMI s consolidated statement of earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the gains (losses) from contracts for which PMI did not apply hedge
accounting were $34 million, ($97) million and $248 million, respectively. The gains (losses) from these contracts substantially offset the losses and gains generated by the underlying intercompany and third-party loans being hedged.   
  As a result, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, these items affected the consolidated statement of earnings as
follows:       

(pre-tax, in millions)    

Derivatives not Designated as   
   Hedging Instruments    
      
     Statement of Earnings   
   Classification of Gain/(Loss)    
      
   Amount
of     Gain/(Loss) Recognized     in Earnings   

2011   

2010   

2009   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
  Marketing, administration and research costs  
      
   $   

$  
  (3  
  )   
     
  $  
  (1  
  )    

Interest expense, net   

56   

10  

(5  
  )    

Total   

$   
   56   

$  
  7  

$  
  (6  
  )    

Qualifying Hedging Activities Reported in
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Losses:  Derivative gains or losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive losses are a result of qualifying hedging activity. Transfers of these gains or losses to earnings are offset by the corresponding
gains or losses on the underlying hedged item. Hedging activity affected accumulated other comprehensive losses, net of income taxes, as follows:       
    At December 31, 2011, PMI expects $11 million of derivative gains that are included in accumulated
other comprehensive losses to be reclassified to the consolidated statement of earnings within the next twelve months. These gains are expected to be substantially offset by the statement of earnings impact of the respective hedged transactions.
               Contingent Features:  PMI s derivative instruments do not contain contingent
features.                Credit Exposure and Credit Risk:  PMI is exposed to credit loss in the
event of non-performance by counterparties. While PMI does not anticipate non-performance, its risk is limited to the fair value of the financial instruments. PMI actively monitors its exposure to credit risk through the use of credit approvals and
credit limits, and by selecting and continuously monitoring a diverse group of major international banks and financial institutions as counterparties.                Fair Value:  See Note 16.  Fair Value Measurements  for disclosures related to the fair value of PMI s derivative financial
instruments.   
    Note 16.    
    Fair Value Measurements:       The authoritative guidance defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The guidance describes three levels of input that may be used to measure fair value, which are as follows:       

Level 1   

Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.   

Level 2   

Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are
observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.   

Level 3   

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.   
                      Derivative Financial Instruments
  Foreign       Exchange Contracts:      PMI assesses the fair value of its derivative financial instruments, which consist of foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign currency swaps and foreign currency options,
using internally developed models that use, as their basis, readily observable market inputs. The fair value of PMI s foreign exchange forward contracts is determined by using the prevailing foreign exchange spot rates and interest rate
differentials, and the respective maturity dates of the instruments. The fair value of PMI s currency options is determined by using a Black-Scholes methodology based on foreign exchange spot rates and interest rate differentials, currency
volatilities and maturity dates. PMI s derivative financial instruments have been classified within Level 2 at December 31, 2011 and 2010. See Note 15.  Financial Instruments  for additional discussion on derivative financial
instruments.                    Pension Plan Assets:  The fair value of pension plan
assets, determined by using readily available quoted market prices in active markets, has been classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The fair value of pension plan assets determined by using quoted
prices in markets that are not active has been classified within Level 2 at December 31, 2011 and 2010. See Note 13.  Benefit Plans  for additional discussion on pension plan assets.   
            Debt:  The fair value of PMI s outstanding debt, which is utilized solely for disclosure
purposes, is determined using quotes and market interest rates currently available to PMI for issuances of debt with similar terms and remaining maturities. The aggregate carrying value of PMI s debt, excluding short-term borrowings and $85
million of capital lease obligations, was $16,949 million at December 31, 2011. The aggregate carrying value of PMI s debt, excluding short-term borrowings and $137 million of capital lease obligations, was $14,618 million at
December 31, 2010.   

The aggregate fair values of PMI s derivative financial instruments, pension plan
assets and debt as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, were as follows:       
 
    Note 17.    
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Losses:       PMI s accumulated other comprehensive losses, net of taxes, consisted of the following:       
 
    Note 18.    
    Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement:       On June 19, 2009, PMI announced that it had signed an agreement with the Republic of Colombia, together with the Departments of Colombia and the Capital District of Bogota, to promote investment and
cooperation with respect to the Colombian tobacco market and to fight counterfeit and contraband tobacco products. The Investment and Cooperation Agreement provides $200 million in funding to the Colombian governments over a 20-year period to
address issues of mutual interest, such as combating the illegal cigarette trade, including the threat of counterfeit tobacco products, and increasing the quality and quantity of locally grown tobacco. As a result of the Investment and Cooperation
Agreement, PMI recorded a pre-tax charge of $135 million in the operating results of the Latin America   Canada segment during the second quarter of 2009. This pre-tax charge, which represents the net present value of the payments
prescribed by the agreement, is reflected in marketing, administration and research costs on the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009.      At December 31, 2011 and 2010, PMI had $79 million and $82 million, respectively, of discounted liabilities associated with the Colombian Investment and Cooperation Agreement. These discounted
liabilities are primarily reflected in other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets and are expected to be paid through 2028.   

Note 19.    
    RBH Legal Settlement:    
  On July 31, 2008, Rothmans announced the finalization of a CAD 550 million settlement (or approximately $540 million, based on the prevailing
exchange rate at that time) between itself and RBH, on the one hand, and the Government of Canada and all ten provinces, on the other hand. The settlement resolves the Royal Canadian Mounted Police s investigation relating to products exported
from Canada by RBH during the 1989-1996 period. Rothmans  sole holding was a 60% interest in RBH. The remaining 40% interest in RBH was owned by PMI.      Subsequent to the finalization of the settlement, PMI announced that it had entered into an agreement with Rothmans to purchase, by way of a tender offer, all of the outstanding common shares of Rothmans.
In October 2008, PMI completed the acquisition of all of Rothmans shares.      At December 31, 2011 and 2010, PMI had $212
million and $237 million, respectively, of discounted accrued settlement charges associated with the RBH legal settlement. These accrued settlement charges are primarily reflected in other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets and
are expected to be paid through 2019.   
    Note 20.    
    E.C. Agreement:       In
2004, PMI entered into an agreement with the European Commission ( E.C. ) and 10 Member States of the European Union that provides for broad cooperation with European law enforcement agencies on anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit
efforts. This agreement has been signed by all 27 Member States. The agreement resolves all disputes between the parties relating to these issues. Under the terms of the agreement, PMI will make 13 payments over 12 years, including an initial
payment of $250 million, which was recorded as a pre-tax charge against its earnings in 2004. The agreement calls for additional payments of approximately $150 million on the first anniversary of the agreement (this payment was made in July 2005),
approximately $100 million on the second anniversary (this payment was made in July 2006) and approximately $75 million each year thereafter for 10 years, each of which is to be adjusted based on certain variables, including PMI s market share
in the European Union in the year preceding payment. Because future additional payments are subject to these variables, PMI records charges for them as an expense in cost of sales when product is shipped. In addition, PMI is also responsible to pay
the excise taxes, VAT and customs duties on qualifying product seizures of up to 90 million cigarettes and is subject to payments of five times the applicable taxes and duties if qualifying product seizures exceed 90 million cigarettes in
a given year. To date, PMI s annual payments related to product seizures have been immaterial. Total charges related to the E.C. Agreement of $86 million, $91 million and $84 million were recorded in cost of sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.   

Note 21.    
    Contingencies:    
            Litigation   General:  Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or
threatened against us, and/or our subsidiaries, and/or our indemnitees in various jurisdictions. Our indemnitees include distributors, licensees, and others that have been named as parties in certain cases and that we have agreed to defend, as well
as pay costs and some or all of judgments, if any, that may be entered against them. Pursuant to the terms of the Distribution Agreement between Altria and PMI, PMI will indemnify Altria and PM USA for tobacco product claims based in substantial
part on products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for PMI by PM USA, and PM USA will indemnify PMI for tobacco product claims based in substantial part on products manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured
for PMI. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including, among others, product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, employment and tax.      It is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases against us and our subsidiaries. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related litigation could encourage the
commencement of additional litigation.      Damages claimed in some of the tobacco-related litigation are significant and, in
certain cases in Brazil, Canada, Israel and Nigeria, range into the billions of dollars. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary
relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. Much of the tobacco-related litigation is in its early stages, and litigation is subject to uncertainty. However, as discussed below, we have to date been
largely successful in defending tobacco-related litigation.      We and our subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated
financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case
may occur, after assessing the information available to it (i) management has not concluded that it is probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible
loss or range of loss for any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, no estimated loss has been accrued in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes in these cases, if any. Legal defense costs are
expensed as incurred.      It is possible that our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be
materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Nevertheless, although litigation is subject to uncertainty, we and each of our subsidiaries named as a
defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that we have valid defenses to the litigation pending against us, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts, if any. All such cases are, and will
continue to be, vigorously defended. However, we and our subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if we believe it is in our best interests to do so.   
  The table below lists the number of tobacco-related cases pending against us and/or our subsidiaries or indemnitees as of
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:       
    Since 1995, when the first tobacco-related litigation was filed against a PMI entity, 376 Smoking and
Health, Lights, Health Care Cost Recovery, and Public Civil Actions in which we and/or one of our subsidiaries and/or indemnitees were a defendant have been terminated in our favor. Ten cases have had decisions in favor of plaintiffs. Six of these
cases have subsequently reached final resolution in our favor and four remain on appeal. To date, we have paid total judgments, including costs, of approximately six thousand Euros. These payments were made in order to appeal three Italian small
claims cases, two of which were subsequently reversed on appeal and one of which remains on appeal. To date, no tobacco-related case has been finally resolved in favor of a plaintiff against us, our subsidiaries or indemnitees.   

The table below lists the verdicts and post-trial developments in the three pending cases
(excluding an individual case on appeal from an Italian small claims court) in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs:       

Date    
      
     Location of   
   Court/Name   
   of Plaintiff    
      
     Type of Case    
      
     Verdict    
      
     Post-Trial Developments     

May 2011  
      
    Brazil /Laszlo   
      
    Individual     Smoking
and     Health   
      
  The Civil Court of S o Vicente found for plaintiff and ordered Philip Morris Brasil to pay damages of R$31,333 (approximately $16,700), plus future costs for cessation and
medical treatment of smoking-related diseases.  
      
  In June 2011, Philip Morris Brasil filed an appeal. In December 2011, the Appellate Court reversed the trial court decision. Plaintiff may appeal.   

September 2009  
      
    Brazil /Bernhardt   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  The Civil Court of Rio de Janeiro found for plaintiff and ordered Philip Morris Brasil to pay R$13,000 (approximately $6,900) in  moral damages.   
      
  Philip Morris Brasil filed its appeal against the decision on the merits with the Court of Appeals in November 2009. In February 2010, without addressing the merits, the Court of
Appeals annulled the trial court s decision and remanded the case to the trial court to issue a new ruling, which was required to address certain compensatory damage claims made by the plaintiff that the trial court did not address in its
original ruling. In July 2010, the trial court reinstated its original decision, while specifically rejecting the compensatory damages claim. Philip Morris Brasil appealed this decision. In March 2011, the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial
court s decision and denied Philip Morris Brasil s appeal. The Court of Appeals increased the amount of damages awarded to the plaintiff to R$100,000 (approximately $53,000). Philip Morris Brasil filed an appeal in June
2011.   

February 2004  
      
    Brazil /The Smoker Health Defense Association   
      
  Class Action  
      
  The Civil Court of S o Paulo found defendants liable without hearing evidence. The court did not assess moral or actual damages, which were to be assessed in a second phase
of the case. The size of the class was not defined in the ruling.  
      
  In April 2004, the court clarified its ruling, awarding  moral damages  of R$1,000 (approximately $530) per smoker per full year of smoking plus interest at the rate of 1%
per month, as of the date of the ruling. The court did not award actual damages, which were to be assessed in the second phase of the case. The size of the class was not estimated. Defendants appealed to the S o Paulo Court of Appeals, which
annulled the ruling in November 2008, finding that the trial court had inappropriately ruled without hearing evidence and returned the case to the trial court for further proceedings. In May 2011, the trial court dismissed the claim. Plaintiff has
appealed. In addition, the defendants filed a constitutional appeal to the Federal Supreme Tribunal on the basis that the plaintiff did not have standing to bring the lawsuit. This appeal is still pending.   

Pending claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories:
               Smoking and Health Litigation:  These cases primarily allege personal injury and
are brought by individual plaintiffs or on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability,
fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach of express and implied warranties, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes. Plaintiffs in these cases seek various forms of relief, including
compensatory and other damages, and injunctive and equitable relief. Defenses raised in these cases include licit activity, failure to state a claim, lack of defect, lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk, contributory negligence, and
statute of limitations.      As of December 31, 2011, there were a number of smoking and health cases pending against us, our
subsidiaries or indemnitees, as follows:       
     
    In the first class action pending in Brazil,  The
Smoker Health Defense Association (ADESF) v. Souza Cruz, S.A. and Philip Morris Marketing, S.A., Nineteenth Lower Civil Court of the Central Courts of the Judiciary District of S o Paulo, Brazil,  filed July 25, 1995, our subsidiary
and another member of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, a consumer organization, is seeking damages for smokers and former smokers and injunctive relief. The verdict and post-trial developments in this case are described in the above
table.      In the second class action pending in Brazil,  Public Prosecutor of S o Paulo v. Philip Morris Brasil
Industria e Comercio Ltda., Civil Court of the City of S o Paulo, Brazil,  filed August 6, 2007, our subsidiary is a defendant. The plaintiff, the Public Prosecutor of the State of S o Paulo, is seeking (i) unspecified
damages on behalf of all smokers nationwide, former smokers, and their relatives; (ii) unspecified damages on behalf of people exposed to environmental tobacco smoke ( ETS ) nationwide, and their relatives; and
(iii) reimbursement of the health care costs allegedly incurred for the treatment of tobacco-related diseases by all Brazilian States and Municipalities, and the Federal District. In an interim ruling issued in December 2007, the trial court
limited the scope of this claim to the State of S o Paulo only. In December 2008, the Seventh Civil Court of S o Paulo issued a decision declaring that it lacked jurisdiction because the case involved issues similar to the  ADESF
 case discussed above and should be transferred to the Nineteenth Lower Civil Court in S o Paulo where the  ADESF  case is pending. The court further stated that these cases should be consolidated for the purposes of judgment. Our
subsidiary appealed this decision to the State of S o Paulo Court of Appeals, which subsequently declared the case stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. In April 2010, the S o Paulo Court of Appeals reversed the Seventh Civil
Court s decision that consolidated the cases, finding that they are based on different legal claims and are progressing at different stages of proceedings. This case was returned to the Seventh Civil Court of S o Paulo, and our
subsidiary filed its closing arguments in December 2010.      In the first class action pending in Canada,  Cecilia Letourneau
v. Imperial Tobacco Ltd., Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc. and JTI Macdonald Corp., Quebec Superior Court, Canada,  filed in September 1998, our subsidiary and other Canadian manufacturers are defendants. The plaintiff, an individual
smoker, is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages for each member of the class who is deemed addicted to smoking. The class was certified in 2005. Pre-trial proceedings are ongoing. Trial is scheduled to begin on March 5, 2012.
     In the second class action pending in Canada,  Conseil Qu b cois Sur Le Tabac Et La Sant  and
Jean-Yves Blais v. Imperial Tobacco Ltd., Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc. and JTI Macdonald Corp., Quebec Superior Court, Canada,  filed in November 1998, our subsidiary and other Canadian manufacturers are defendants. The plaintiffs, an
anti-smoking organization and an individual smoker, are seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages for each member of the class who allegedly suffers from certain smoking-related diseases. The class was certified in 2005. Pre-trial
proceedings are ongoing. Trial is scheduled to begin on March 5, 2012.      In the third class action pending in Canada,
 Kunta v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., The Queen s Bench, Winnipeg, Canada,  filed June 12, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry
are defendants. The plaintiff, an individual smoker, alleges her own addiction to tobacco products and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), severe asthma and mild reversible lung disease resulting from the use of tobacco
products. She is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised of all smokers, their estates, dependents and family members, as well as restitution of profits, and reimbursement of government health
care costs allegedly caused by tobacco products. In September 2009, plaintiff s counsel informed defendants that he did not anticipate taking any action in this case while he pursues the class action filed in Saskatchewan (see description of
 Adams,  below).      In the fourth class action pending in Canada,  Adams v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council,
et al., The Queen s Bench, Saskatchewan, Canada,  filed July 10, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, an individual smoker,
alleges her own addiction to tobacco products and COPD resulting from the use of tobacco products. She is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages on behalf of a proposed   

class comprised of all smokers who have smoked a minimum of 25,000 cigarettes and have allegedly suffered, or suffer, from COPD, emphysema, heart disease, or cancer, as well as restitution of
profits. Preliminary motions are pending.      In the fifth class action pending in Canada,  Semple v. Canadian Tobacco
Manufacturers  Council, et al., The Supreme Court (trial court), Nova Scotia, Canada,  filed June 18, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The
plaintiff, an individual smoker, alleges his own addiction to tobacco products and COPD resulting from the use of tobacco products. He is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised of all smokers,
their estates, dependents and family members, as well as restitution of profits, and reimbursement of government health care costs allegedly caused by tobacco products. No activity in this case is anticipated while plaintiff s counsel pursues
the class action filed in Saskatchewan (see description of  Adams,  above).      In the sixth class action pending in Canada,
 Dorion v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., The Queen s Bench, Alberta, Canada,  filed June 15, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry
are defendants. The plaintiff, an individual smoker, alleges her own addiction to tobacco products and chronic bronchitis and severe sinus infections resulting from the use of tobacco products. She is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive
damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised of all smokers, their estates, dependents and family members, restitution of profits, and reimbursement of government health care costs allegedly caused by tobacco products. To date, we, our
subsidiaries, and our indemnitees have not been properly served with the complaint. No activity in this case is anticipated while plaintiff s counsel pursues the class action filed in Saskatchewan (see description of  Adams,  above).
     In the seventh class action pending in Canada,  McDermid v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Supreme Court, British
Columbia, Canada,  filed June 25, 2010, we, our subsidiaries, and our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, an individual smoker, alleges his own addiction to tobacco
products and heart disease resulting from the use of tobacco products. He is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised of all smokers who were alive on June 12, 2007, and who suffered from
heart disease allegedly caused by smoking, their estates, dependents and family members, plus disgorgement of revenues earned by the defendants from January 1, 1954, to the date the claim was filed. Defendants have filed jurisdictional
challenges on the grounds that this action should not proceed during the pendency of the Saskatchewan class action (see description of  Adams,  above).      In the eighth class action pending in Canada,  Bourassa v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Supreme Court, British Columbia, Canada,  filed June 25, 2010, we, our subsidiaries, and our
indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, the heir to a deceased smoker, alleges that the decedent was addicted to tobacco products and suffered from emphysema resulting from the
use of tobacco products. She is seeking compensatory and unspecified punitive damages on behalf of a proposed class comprised of all smokers who were alive on June 12, 2007, and who suffered from chronic respiratory diseases allegedly caused by
smoking, their estates, dependents and family members, plus disgorgement of revenues earned by the defendants from January 1, 1954, to the date the claim was filed. Defendants have filed jurisdictional challenges on the grounds that this action
should not proceed during the pendency of the Saskatchewan class action (see description of  Adams,  above).   
            Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation:  These cases, brought by governmental and
non-governmental plaintiffs, seek reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery including unjust enrichment,
negligence, negligent design, strict liability, breach of express and implied warranties, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance, defective product, failure to warn, sale
of cigarettes to minors, and claims under statutes governing competition and deceptive trade practices. Plaintiffs in these cases seek various forms of relief including compensatory and other damages, and injunctive and equitable relief. Defenses
raised in these cases include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury, failure to state a claim, adequate remedy at law,  unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and
benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), and statute of limitations.      As of December 31, 2011, there were 11 health care
cost recovery cases pending against us, our subsidiaries or indemnitees in Canada (4), Israel (1), Nigeria (5) and Spain (1), compared with 10 such cases on December 31, 2010, and 11 such cases on December 31, 2009.   
     In the first health care cost recovery case pending in Canada,
 Her Majesty the Queen in Right of British Columbia v. Imperial Tobacco Limited, et al., Supreme Court, British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, Canada,  filed January 24, 2001, we, our subsidiaries, our indemnitee (PM USA), and other members
of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, the government of the province of British Columbia, brought a claim based upon legislation enacted by the province authorizing the government to file a direct action against cigarette manufacturers to
recover the health care costs it has incurred, and will incur, resulting from a  tobacco related wrong.  The Supreme Court of Canada has held that the statute is constitutional. We and certain other non-Canadian defendants challenged the
jurisdiction of the court. The court rejected the jurisdictional challenge, and pre-trial discovery is ongoing. The trial court also has granted plaintiff s request that the target trial date of September 2011 be postponed indefinitely.
Meanwhile, in December 2009, the British Columbia Court of Appeal ruled that the defendants could pursue a third-party claim against the government of Canada   

for negligently misrepresenting to defendants the efficacy of the low tar tobacco strain that the federal government developed and licensed to some of the defendants. In May 2010, the Supreme
Court of Canada agreed to hear both the appeal of the Attorney General of Canada and the defendants  cross-appeal from the British Columbia Court of Appeal decision. In July 2011, the Supreme Court of Canada dismissed the third-party claims
against the federal government.      In the second health care cost recovery case filed in Canada,  Her Majesty the Queen in
Right of New Brunswick v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Court of Queen s Bench of New Brunswick, Trial Court, New Brunswick, Fredericton, Canada,  filed March 13, 2008, we, our subsidiaries, our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and
other members of the industry are defendants. The claim was filed by the government of the province of New Brunswick based on legislation enacted in the province. This legislation is similar to the law introduced in British Columbia that authorizes
the government to file a direct action against cigarette manufacturers to recover the health care costs it has incurred, and will incur, as a result of a  tobacco related wrong.  Pre-trial discovery is ongoing.   
  In the third health care cost recovery case filed in Canada,  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Ontario v. Rothmans Inc., et al.,
Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Toronto, Canada,  filed September 29, 2009, we, our subsidiaries, our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The claim was filed by the government of
the province of Ontario based on legislation enacted in the province. This legislation is similar to the laws introduced in British Columbia and New Brunswick that authorize the government to file a direct action against cigarette manufacturers to
recover the health care costs it has incurred, and will incur, as a result of a  tobacco related wrong.  Preliminary motions are pending.      In the fourth health care cost recovery case filed in Canada,  Attorney General of Newfoundland and Labrador v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Supreme Court of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. Johns, Canada,
 filed February 8, 2011, we, our subsidiaries, our indemnitees (PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.), and other members of the industry are defendants. The claim was filed by the government of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador based on
legislation enacted in the province that is similar to the laws introduced in British Columbia, New Brunswick and Ontario. The legislation authorizes the government to file a direct action against cigarette manufacturers to recover the health care
costs it has incurred, and will incur, as a result of a  tobacco related wrong.  Preliminary motions are pending.   
  In the case in Israel,  Kupat Holim Clalit v. Philip Morris USA, et al., Jerusalem District Court, Israel,  filed September 28,
1998, we, our subsidiary, and our indemnitee (PM USA), and other members of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, a private health care provider, brought a claim seeking reimbursement of the cost of treating its members for alleged
smoking-related illnesses for the years 1990 to 1998. Certain defendants filed a motion to dismiss the case. The motion was rejected, and those defendants filed a motion with the Israel Supreme Court for leave to appeal. The appeal was heard by a
three-judge panel of the Supreme Court in March 2005. In July 2011, the Supreme Court issued a decision that accepted the defendants  appeal and dismissed the case. In August 2011, plaintiff filed a petition for an  en banc  rehearing by
the Israeli Supreme Court of the decision dismissing the case, which the Supreme Court rejected on January 29, 2012. This case is now terminated and we will no longer report on the case.   
  In the first case in Nigeria,  The Attorney General of Lagos State v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of
Lagos State, Lagos, Nigeria,  filed April 30, 2007, our subsidiary and other members of the industry are defendants. Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of
anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the next 20 years, various forms of injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. In February 2008, our subsidiary was served with a Notice of Discontinuance. The claim was formally
dismissed in March 2008. However, the plaintiff has since refiled its claim. Our subsidiary is in the process of making challenges to service and the court s jurisdiction. Currently, the case is stayed in the trial court pending the appeals of
certain co-defendants relating to service objections. We currently have no employees, operations or assets in Nigeria.      In the
second case in Nigeria,  The Attorney General of Kano State v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Kano State, Kano, Nigeria,  filed May 9, 2007, our subsidiary and other members of the industry are
defendants. Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the next 20 years, various forms of injunctive
relief, plus punitive damages. Our subsidiary is in the process of making challenges to service and the court s jurisdiction.      In the third case in Nigeria,  The Attorney General of Gombe State v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Gombe State, Gombe, Nigeria,  filed May 18, 2007, our
subsidiary and other members of the industry are defendants. Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for
the next 20 years, various forms of injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. In July 2008, the court dismissed the case against all defendants based on the plaintiff s failure to comply with various procedural requirements when filing and
serving the complaint. The plaintiff did not appeal the dismissal. However, in October 2008, the plaintiff refiled its claim. In June 2010, the court ordered the plaintiff to amend the claim to properly name Philip Morris International Inc. as a
defendant. Philip Morris International Inc. objected to plaintiff s attempted service of amended process. In February 2011, the court granted, in part, our service objections, ruling that the plaintiff had not complied with the procedural steps
necessary to serve us. As a result of this ruling, Philip Morris International Inc. is not currently a defendant in the case. Plaintiff may   

appeal the ruling or follow the procedural steps required to serve Philip Morris International Inc.      In the fourth case in Nigeria,  The Attorney General of Oyo State, et al., v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Oyo State, Ibadan, Nigeria,  filed May 25, 2007,
our subsidiary and other members of the industry are defendants. Plaintiffs seek reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases
for the next 20 years, various forms of injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. Our subsidiary challenged service as improper. In June 2010, the court ruled that plaintiffs did not have leave to serve the writ of summons on the defendants and that
they must re-serve the writ. Our subsidiary has not yet been re-served.      In the fifth case in Nigeria,  The Attorney General
of Ogun State v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Ogun State, Abeokuta, Nigeria,  filed February 26, 2008, our subsidiary and other members of the industry are defendants. Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for
the cost of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking-related diseases for the next 20 years, various forms of injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. In May 2010, the
trial court rejected our subsidiary s service objections. Our subsidiary has appealed.      In a series of proceedings in
Spain,  Junta de Andalucia, et al. v. Philip Morris Spain, et al., Court of First Instance, Madrid, Spain,  the first of which was filed February 21, 2002, our subsidiary and other members of the industry were defendants. The plaintiffs
sought reimbursement for the cost of treating certain of their citizens for various smoking-related illnesses. In May 2004, the first instance court dismissed the initial case, finding that the State was a necessary party to the claim, and thus, the
claim must be filed in the Administrative Court. The plaintiffs appealed. In February 2006, the appellate court affirmed the lower court s dismissal. The plaintiffs then filed notice that they intended to pursue their claim in the
Administrative Court against the State. Because they were defendants in the original proceeding, our subsidiary and other members of the industry filed notices with the Administrative Court that they are interested parties in the case. In September
2007, the plaintiffs filed their complaint in the Administrative Court. In November 2007, the Administrative Court dismissed the claim based on a procedural issue. The plaintiffs asked the Administrative Court to reconsider its decision dismissing
the case, and that request was rejected in a ruling rendered in February 2008. Plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court rejected plaintiffs  appeal in November 2009, resulting in the final dismissal of the claim. However,
plaintiffs have filed a second claim in the Administrative Court against the Ministry of Economy. This second claim seeks the same relief as the original claim, but relies on a different procedural posture. The Administrative Court has recognized
our subsidiary as a party in this proceeding. Our subsidiary and other defendants filed preliminary objections that resulted in a stay of the term to file the answer. In May 2011, the court rejected the defendants  preliminary objections, but
it has not yet set a deadline for defendants to file their answers.                Lights Cases:
 These cases, brought by individual plaintiffs, or on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, allege that the use of the term  lights  constitutes fraudulent and misleading conduct. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these
cases are based on various theories of recovery including misrepresentation, deception, and breach of consumer protection laws. Plaintiffs seek various forms of relief including restitution, injunctive relief, and compensatory and other damages.
Defenses raised include lack of causation, lack of reliance, assumption of the risk, and statute of limitations.      As of
December 31, 2011, there were a number of lights cases pending against our subsidiaries or indemnitees, as follows:       

2 cases brought on behalf of various classes of individual plaintiffs (some overlapping) in Israel, compared with 2 such cases on December 31,
2010, and 3 such cases on December 31, 2009; and          

9 cases brought by individuals in the equivalent of small claims courts in Italy, where the maximum damages are approximately one thousand Euros per
case, compared with 10 such cases on December 31, 2010, and 12 such cases on December 31, 2009.      
  In the first class action pending in Israel,  El-Roy, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., District Court of Tel-Aviv/Jaffa,
Israel,  filed January 18, 2004, our subsidiary and our indemnitees (PM USA and our former importer) are defendants. The plaintiffs filed a purported class action claiming that the class members were misled by the descriptor
 lights  into believing that lights cigarettes are safer than full flavor cigarettes. The claim seeks recovery of the purchase price of lights cigarettes and compensation for distress for each class member. Hearings took place in November
and December 2008 regarding whether the case meets the legal requirements necessary to allow it to proceed as a class action. The parties  briefing on class certification was completed in March 2011. A hearing for final oral argument on class
certification took place in November 2011. We are awaiting the court s decision.      The claims in a second class action
pending in Israel,  Navon, et al. v. Philip Morris Products USA, et al., District Court of Tel-Aviv/Jaffa, Israel , filed December 5, 2004, against our indemnitee (our distributor) and other members of the industry are similar to those in
 El-Roy , and the case is currently stayed pending a ruling on class certification in  El-Roy .   
            Public Civil Actions:  Claims have been filed either by an individual, or a public or private
entity, seeking to protect collective or individual rights, such as the right to health, the right to information or the right to safety. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery including
product defect, concealment, and misrepresentation. Plaintiffs in these cases seek various forms of relief including injunctive relief such as banning cigarettes, descriptors, smoking in certain places and advertising, as well as implementing
communication campaigns and   

reimbursement of medical expenses incurred by public or private institutions.      As of December 31, 2011, there were 3 public civil actions pending against our subsidiaries in Argentina (1), Brazil (1), and Venezuela (1), compared with 7 such cases on December 31, 2010, and
11 such cases on December 31, 2009.      In the public civil action in Argentina,  Asociaci n Argentina de Derecho
de Danos v. Massalin Particulares S.A., et al., Civil Court of Buenos Aires, Argentina,  filed February 26, 2007, our subsidiary and another member of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff, a consumer association, seeks the
establishment of a relief fund for reimbursement of medical costs associated with diseases allegedly caused by smoking. Our subsidiary filed its answer in September 2007. In March 2010, the case file was transferred to the Federal Court on
Administrative Matters after the Civil Court granted the plaintiff s request to add the national government as a co-plaintiff in the case.      In the public civil action in Brazil,  The Brazilian Association for the Defense of Consumer Health ( SAUDECON ) v. Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda. and Souza Cruz S.A., Civil
Court of City of Porto Alegre, Brazil,  filed November 3, 2008, our subsidiary is a defendant. The plaintiff, a consumer organization, is asking the court to establish a fund that will be used to provide treatment to smokers who claim to be
addicted and who do not otherwise have access to smoking cessation treatment. Plaintiff requests that each defendant s liability be determined according to its market share. In May 2009, the trial court dismissed the case on the merits.
Plaintiff has appealed.      In the public civil action in Venezuela,  Federation of Consumers and Users Associations
( FEVACU ), et al. v. National Assembly of Venezuela and the Venezuelan Ministry of Health, Constitutional Chamber of the Venezuelan Supreme Court,  filed April 29, 2008, we were not named as a defendant, but the plaintiffs
published a notice pursuant to court order, notifying all interested parties to appear in the case. In January 2009, our subsidiary appeared in the case in response to this notice. The plaintiffs purport to represent the right to health of the
citizens of Venezuela and claim that the government failed to protect adequately its citizens  right to health. The claim asks the court to order the government to enact stricter regulations on the manufacture and sale of tobacco products. In
addition, the plaintiffs ask the court to order companies involved in the tobacco industry to allocate a percentage of their  sales or benefits  to establish a fund to pay for the health care costs of treating smoking-related diseases. In
October 2008, the court ruled that plaintiffs have standing to file the claim and that the claim meets the threshold admissibility requirements.                Other Litigation:  Other litigation includes an antitrust suit, a breach of contract action, and various tax and individual employment cases.

Antitrust:  In the antitrust class action in Kansas,  Smith v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., District Court of Seward County, Kansas,
 filed February 7, 2000, we and other members of the industry are defendants. The plaintiff asserts that the defendant cigarette companies engaged in an international conspiracy to fix wholesale prices of cigarettes and sought certification
of a class comprised of all persons in Kansas who were indirect purchasers of cigarettes from the defendants. The plaintiff claims unspecified economic damages resulting from the alleged price-fixing, trebling of those damages under the Kansas
price-fixing statute and counsel fees. The trial court granted plaintiff s motion for class certification. A court-ordered mediation was held in October 2010, prior to which we filed a summary judgment motion. The court has not yet ruled on our
summary judgment motion, but has set a trial date in July 2012.          

Breach of Contract:  In the breach of contract action in Ontario, Canada,  The Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco Growers  Marketing Board, et al.
v. Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc., Superior Court of Justice, London, Ontario, Canada,  filed November 5, 2009, our subsidiary is a defendant. Plaintiffs in this putative class action allege that our subsidiary breached contracts
with the proposed class members (Ontario tobacco growers and their related associations) concerning the sale and purchase of flue-cured tobacco from January 1, 1986 to December 31, 1996. Plaintiffs allege that our subsidiary was required
by the contracts to disclose to plaintiffs the quantity of tobacco included in cigarettes to be sold for duty free and export purposes (which it purchased at a lower price per pound than tobacco that was included in cigarettes to be sold in Canada),
but failed to disclose that some of the cigarettes it designated as being for export and duty free purposes were ultimately sold in Canada. Our subsidiary has been served, but there is currently no deadline to respond to the statement of claim. In
September 2011, plaintiffs served a notice of motion seeking class certification.          

Tax:  In Brazil, there are 114 tax cases involving Philip Morris Brasil S.A. and Philip Morris Brasil Ltda. relating to the payment of state tax
on the sale and transfer of goods and services, federal social contributions, excise, social security and income tax, and other matters. Fifty-eight of these cases are under administrative review by the relevant fiscal authorities and 56 are under
judicial review by the courts.          

Employment:  Our subsidiaries, Philip Morris Brasil S.A. and Philip Morris Brasil Ltda. are defendants in various individual employment cases
resulting, among other things, from the termination of employment in connection with the shut-down of one of our factories in Brazil.          Third-Party Guarantees       At December 31, 2011, PMI s third-party guarantees were
$7 million, of which $2 million expire through December 31, 2012, and the remainder through 2015. PMI is required to perform under these guarantees in the event that a third party fails to make contractual payments. PMI does not have a
liability on its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011, as the fair value of these guarantees is insignificant due to the fact that the probability of future payments under these guarantees is remote.   

Note 22.    
    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited):        
     Basic and diluted EPS are computed independently for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the
quarterly EPS amounts may not agree to the total for the year.       During 2011 and 2010, PMI recorded the following pre-tax
charges in earnings:       

Report of Independent        Registered Public Accounting Firm          

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of      Philip Morris International Inc. and Subsidiaries:      In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Philip Morris International Inc. and its subsidiaries
( PMI ) at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. Also in our opinion, PMI maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). PMI s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and
on PMI s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the
financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.        PricewaterhouseCoopers SA     

/ S /    J AMES  A.
S CHUMACHER    

/ S /    F ELIX  R OTH    

James A. Schumacher  

Felix Roth  

Lausanne, Switzerland  

February 9, 2012  

Report of Management on Internal Control        Over Financial Reporting       Management of Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI )
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. PMI s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Internal control over financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures that:       

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of PMI;

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America;          

provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of PMI are being made only in accordance with the authorization of management and directors
of PMI; and          

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a
material effect on the consolidated financial statements.         Internal control over financial reporting
includes the controls themselves, monitoring and internal auditing practices and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Management assessed the effectiveness of PMI s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. Management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over
financial reporting described in   Internal   Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management s assessment included an evaluation of the design
of PMI s internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board of
Directors.      Based on this assessment, management determined that, as of December 31, 2011, PMI maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting.      PricewaterhouseCoopers SA, an independent registered public accounting firm, who
audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements of PMI included in this report, has audited the effectiveness of PMI s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, as stated in their report herein.
     February 9, 2012   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 d258717dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC.

Subsidiaries of Philip Morris International Inc. 

Exhibit 21    
         List of Significant Subsidiaries    
         As of December 31, 2011    
        Listed below are subsidiaries of Philip Morris International Inc. (the
 Company ) as of December 31, 2011 and their state or country of organization. This list omits the subsidiaries of the Company that in the aggregate would not constitute a  significant subsidiary  of the Company, as that term is
defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X.       

Name   
      
     State or       Country
of       Organization     

Compania Colombiana de Tabaco S.A.  
      
  Colombia   
 
  Leonard Dingler (Proprietary) Limited  
      
  South Africa   
 
  Massalin Particulares S.A.  
      
  Argentina   
 
  Papastratos Cigarette Manufacturing Company  
      
  Greece   
 
  Philip Morris Benelux B.V.B.A.  
      
  Belgium   
 
  Philip Morris Brands SARL  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Philip Morris Cigatam Productos Y Servicios, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Philip Morris CR a.s.  
      
  Czech Republic   
 
  Philip Morris Finance S.A.  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Philip Morris Finland OY  
      
  Finland   
 
  Philip Morris Global Brands Inc.  
      
  USA   
 
  Philip Morris GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Philip Morris Holland B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Philip Morris Holland Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Philip Morris International Inc.  
      
  USA   
 
  Philip Morris International Management SA  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Philip Morris Investments B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Philip Morris Japan Kabushiki Kaisha  
      
  Japan   
 
  Philip Morris Kazakhstan LLP  
      
  Kazakhstan   
 
  Philip Morris Korea Inc.  
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
  Philip Morris Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Philip Morris Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.  
      
  Malaysia   
 
  Philip Morris Manufacturing GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Philip Morris Mexico, Sociedad An nima de Capital Variable  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Philip Morris Operations a.d.  
      
  Serbia   
 
  Philip Morris (Pakistan) Limited  
      
  Pakistan   
 
  Philip Morris Polska Distribution Spolka z ograniczona odpowiedzialnoscia  
      
  Poland   
 
  Philip Morris Polska S.A.  
      
  Poland   
 
  Philip Morris Products S.A.  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Philip Morris SA, Philip Morris Sabanci Pazarlama ve Satis A.S.  
      
  Turkey   
 
  Philip Morris Sales and Marketing Ltd.  
      
  Russia   
 
  PHILSA Philip Morris Sabanci Sigara ve Tutunculuk Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S.  
      
  Turkey   
 
  PMFTC Inc.  
      
  Philippines   
 
  PM Tobakk Norge AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  PrJSC Philip Morris Ukraine  
      
  Ukraine   
 
  PT Hanjaya Mandala Sampoerna Tbk.  
      
  Indonesia   
 
  PT Philip Morris Indonesia  
      
  Indonesia   
 
  Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc.  
      
  Canada   
 
  Tabaqueira II, S.A.  
      
  Portugal   
 
  Tabaqueira - Empresa Industrial de Tabacos, S.A.  
      
  Portugal   
 
  ZAO Philip Morris Izhora  
      
  Russia   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 d258717dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM.

Consent of independent registered public accounting firm. 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in Philip Morris International Inc. s Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File No. 333-172490) and Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-149822, 333-149821) of our report dated February 9, 2012 relating to the consolidated
financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
  PricewaterhouseCoopers SA       

/s/ J AMES  A. S CHUMACHER   

/s/ F ELIX  R OTH    

James A. Schumacher  

Felix Roth   
    Lausanne, Switzerland      February 24, 2012   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 d258717dex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of attorney 

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the
undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and
lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and
any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein,
hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could
do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.   

/s/ H AROLD  B ROWN     
 
  Harold Brown   

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ M ATHIS  C ABIALLAVETTA     
 
  Mathis Cabiallavetta   

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ J. D UDLEY  F ISHBURN     
 
  J. Dudley Fishburn   

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ J ENNIFER  L I     
 
  Jennifer Li   

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ G RAHAM  M ACKAY     
 
  Graham Mackay   

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ S ERGIO  M ARCHIONNE     
 
  Sergio Marchionne   

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ K ALPANA  M ORPARIA     
 
  Kalpana Morparia   

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ L UCIO  A. N OTO     
 
  Lucio A. Noto   

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ R OBERT  B. P OLET     
 
  Robert B. Polet   

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ C ARLOS  S LIM  H EL      
 
  Carlos Slim Hel    

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Hermann Waldemer and Jerry Whitson, or any one or more of them, his or her true and lawful attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, to execute, by
manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys
may do or cause to be done by virtue of these presents.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set his or
her hand and seal as of the 9th day of February, 2012.        

/s/ S TEPHEN  M. W OLF     
 
  Stephen M. Wolf   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 d258717dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE REGISTRANT'S CEO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)

Certification of the Registrant's CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.1       Certifications      I, Louis C. Camilleri, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Philip Morris International Inc.;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 24, 2012   

/s/ LOUIS C. CAMILLERI   
 
  Louis C. Camilleri   
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 d258717dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE REGISTRANT'S CFO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)

Certification of the Registrant's CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.2       Certifications      I, Hermann Waldemer, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Philip Morris International Inc.;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 24, 2012   

/s/ HERMANN WALDEMER   
 
  Hermann Waldemer   
 
  Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 d258717dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE REGISTRANT'S CEO PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Certification of the Registrant's CEO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of
Philip Morris International Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Louis C. Camilleri, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

/s/ LOUIS C. CAMILLERI   
 
  Louis C. Camilleri   
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
 
  February 24, 2012   
     A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating,
acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Philip Morris International Inc. and will be retained by Philip
Morris International Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 d258717dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE REGISTRANT'S CFO PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Certification of the Registrant's CFO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of
Philip Morris International Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Hermann Waldemer, Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

/s/ HERMANN WALDEMER   
 
  Hermann Waldemer   
 
  Chief Financial Officer   
 
  February 24, 2012   
     A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating,
acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Philip Morris International Inc. and will be retained by Philip
Morris International Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.    

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 pm-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 pm-20111231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 pm-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 pm-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 pm-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 pm-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

